SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT continued AUDITORS REPORT Secretary, Smiths Group plc, and CREST sponsored members should The report of the auditors on the accounts 765 Finchley Road, London NW11 8DS consult the CREST Manual or their sponsor for the year ended 31 July 2004 was e-mail: secretary@smiths-group.
or voting service provider for instructions unqualified and did not contain a statement Shareholders who wish to receive the on electronic proxy appointment and voting.
under either of sections 237 2 and 237 3 of statutory Reports and Accounts free Paper proxy cards have been distributed the Companies Act 1985. of charge instead of Annual Reviews to all shareholders with the Notice of AGM or vice versa in future years should write as usual.
REPORTS AND ACCOUNTS 2004 to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, The statutory Reports and Accounts for Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, quoting By Order of the Board 2004 comprises this Annual Review 2004 Reference 0282. a summary financial statement and the DAVID P LILLYCROP Directors Report and Financial Statements ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING DIRECTOR AND SECRETARY 2004.
Both documents are available in Shareholders may submit electronic electronic form on our website, proxy votes or consciously not vote on 765 Finchley Road www.
Printed copies all resolutions to be proposed at this years London NW11 8DS of these documents may be obtained, free AGM by visiting www.
of charge, by writing to the Deputy Group CREST members, CREST personal members 22 September 2004 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF SMITHS GROUP PLC We have examined the summary financial This statement, including the opinion, has the directors remuneration report of Smiths statement of Smiths Group plc.
been prepared for and only for the Companys Group plc for the year ended 31 July 2004 and members as a body in accordance with complies with the applicable requirements RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS and for no other purpose.
We do not, in and the regulations made thereunder.
The directors are responsible for preparing giving this opinion, accept or assume the summarised annual report the Annual responsibility for any other purpose or to  LLP Review 2004 in accordance with applicable any other person to whom this statement Chartered Accountants and law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our is shown or into whose hands it may come Registered Auditors opinion on the consistency of the summary save where expressly agreed by our prior London financial statement within the summarised consent in writing.
annual report with the annual financial 22 September 2004 statements, the directors report and the BASIS OF OPINION directors remuneration report, and its We conducted our work in accordance with NOTES compliance with the relevant requirements of Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on a The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies the summary financial statement issued by plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
the Auditing Practices Board for use in the consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the We also read the other information United Kingdom.
auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that contained in the summarised annual may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
report and consider the implications for our OPINION report if we become aware of any apparent In our opinion the summary financial b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the misstatements or material inconsistencies statement is consistent with the annual preparation and dissemination of financial statements with the summary financial statement.
financial statements, the directors report and may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
SMITHS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 33
