STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the directors to make judgements and estimates that The directors are responsible for keeping prepare accounts for each financial year are reasonable and prudent: proper accounting records which disclose which give a true and fair view of the state state whether applicable accounting with reasonable accuracy at any time the of affairs of the Company and the Group standards have been followed, subject financial position of the Company and the at the end of the year, and of the profit to any material departures disclosed Group and enable them to ensure that or loss of the Group for that period.
In and explained in the accounts: and the accounts comply with the Companies preparing those accounts, the directors prepare the accounts on the going Act 1985.
They are also responsible for are required to: concern basis unless it is inappropriate safeguarding the assets of the Company and select suitable accounting policies and to assume that the Company will continue hence for taking reasonable steps for the then apply them consistently: in business.
prevention of fraud and other irregularities.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SMITHS GROUP PLC We have audited the financial statements prepared in accordance with the Companies Companys circumstances, consistently which comprise the consolidated profit Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our applied and adequately disclosed.
and loss account, the balance sheet, the opinion, the Directors Report is not We planned and performed our audit cash-flow statement, the statement of consistent with the financial statements, if so as to obtain all the information and total recognised gains and losses and the the Company has not kept proper accounting explanations which we considered related notes, which have been prepared records, if we have not received all the necessary in order to provide us with under the historical cost convention and the information and explanations we require sufficient evidence to give reasonable accounting policies set out in the statement for our audit, or if information specified by assurance that the financial statements of accounting policies.
We have also audited law regarding directors remuneration and and the auditable part of the Directors the disclosures required by Part 3 of transactions is not disclosed.
Remuneration Report are free from Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 We read the other information contained material misstatement, whether caused contained in the Directors Remuneration in the Statutory Reports and Accounts by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Report the auditable part.
and consider the implications for our forming our opinion we also evaluated the report if we become aware of any apparent overall adequacy of the presentation of RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF misstatements or material inconsistencies information in the financial statements.
DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS with the financial statements.
The other The directors responsibilities for information comprises only the Annual OPINION preparing the Statutory Reports and Review 2004, the Directors Report, the In our opinion: Accounts, comprising the Annual Review unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration the financial statements give a true 2004 and the Directors Report and Report, the Statement of Directors and fair view of the state of affairs of the Financial Statements 2004, in accordance Responsibilities and the Five Year Review.
Company and the Group at 31 July 2004 with applicable United Kingdom law and and of the profit and cash-flows of the accounting standards, are set out in the We review whether the Corporate Governance Group for the year then ended: statement of directors responsibilities.
The statement in the Directors Report reflects the financial statements have been directors are also responsible for preparing the Companys compliance with the seven properly prepared in accordance with the directors remuneration report.
provisions of the Combined Code issued the Companies Act 1985: and in June 1998 specified for our review by Our responsibility is to audit the financial those parts of the Directors the Listing Rules of the Financial Services statements and the auditable part of Remuneration Report required by Part 3 Authority, and we report if it does not.
We the directors remuneration report in of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act are not required to consider whether the accordance with relevant legal and 1985 have been properly prepared in Boards statements on internal control cover regulatory requirements and United accordance with the Companies Act 1985. all risks and controls, or to form an opinion Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by on the effectiveness of the Companys or the Auditing Practices Board.
This report,  LLP Groups corporate governance procedures including the opinion, has been prepared Chartered Accountants and or its risk and control procedures.
for and only for the Companys members Registered Auditors as a body in accordance with Section 235 London BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other We conducted our audit in accordance 22 September 2004 purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, with auditing standards issued by the accept or assume responsibility for any Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes NOTES other purpose or to any other person to a The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group examination, on a test basis, of evidence whom this report is shown or into whose plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in hands it may come save where expressly work carried out by the auditors does not involve the financial statements and the auditable agreed by our prior consent in writing.
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that We report to you our opinion as to whether It also includes an assessment of the may have occurred to the financial statements since the financial statements give a true and fair significant estimates and judgements made they were initially presented on the website.
view and whether the financial statements by the directors in the preparation of the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the and the auditable part of the Directors financial statements, and of whether the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Remuneration Report have been properly accounting policies are appropriate to the may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
16 SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004
