38 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Independent auditors report to the members of Spectris plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 39 to 67.
We have also Basis of audit opinion audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is described We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued as having been audited.
by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the directors and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from remuneration report.
As described on page 27, this includes responsibility material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give In our opinion: a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in company and the group as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our group for the year then ended: and opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Act 1985. group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement on pages 24 and KPMG Audit Plc 25 reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Chartered Accountants Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
Registered Auditor We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal London control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of 15 March 2005 the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
