Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of Abbot Group plc The maintenance and integrity of the Abbot Group plc website is the We have audited the financial statements which comprise profit and loss responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have been accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting policies financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and contained in the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and Basis of audit opinion the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial directors remuneration report.
statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the Opinion auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been properly In our opinion: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2004 and financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 We read the other information contained in the annual report and of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial  LLP statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans Aberdeen statement, the operating review, the financial review, the corporate 11 March 2005 social responsibility statement and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
