Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 27 Independent auditors report to the members of Spirent plc We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance which comprise the Consolidated profit and loss account, Consolidated procedures or its risk and control procedures.
statement of total recognised gains and losses, Reconciliation of movements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider in shareholders funds, Consolidated balance sheet, Consolidated cash whether it is consistent with the accounts.
This other information comprises ow statement, Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt, the Highlights, Our business at a glance, Chairmans letter, Chief Executives Company balance sheet, the related notes 1 to 34 and the schedule of letter, Operating and financial review, Board of directors, Corporate social Principal divisions, subsidiaries and associates.
These accounts have been responsibility statement, Report of the directors, Directors statement prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have on corporate governance, the unaudited part of the Report on directors also audited the information in the Report on directors remuneration that remuneration, Financial history, Shareholder information and Contact is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and Basis of audit opinion for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and for the opinions we have formed.
disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Report on directors remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies on directors remuneration and the accounts in accordance with applicable are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement adequately disclosed.
of directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the Report on and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us directors remuneration to be audited in accordance with relevant legal with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and and the part of the Report on directors remuneration to be audited the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Listing Rules.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Report on directors of the Report on directors remuneration to be audited.
remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Opinion Report of the directors is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information profit of the Group for the year then ended, and the accounts and the specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration part of the Report on directors remuneration to be audited have been and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the Directors statement on corporate governance reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Ernst & Young LLP FRC Code on Corporate Governance specified for our review by the Listing Registered Auditor Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether London the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 24 February 2005
