Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish and Southern Energy plc We have audited the accounts on pages 32 to 55.
We have Basis of Audit Opinion also audited the information in the Remuneration Report We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing that is described as having been audited.
Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to This report is made solely to the companys members, as a the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made state to the companys members those matters we are required by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of to state to them in an auditors report and for no other whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors assurance that the accounts and the part of the Remuneration The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, and the Remuneration Report.
As described on page 37, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent the Remuneration Report to be audited.
auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Opinion Financial Services Authority, and by our professions In our opinion: ethical guidance.
the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the company and the Group as at 31 March 2004 and of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the accounts profit of the Group for the year then ended: and and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Report to be Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts, if Companies Act 1985. the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law KPMG Audit Plc regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Chartered Accountants Group is not disclosed.
Registered Auditor Edinburgh We review whether the statement on page 17 reflects the 18 May 2004 companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the Corporate Governance Statement and the un-audited part of the Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
