Directors Independent Auditors Report Responsibilities to the Members of SSL International plc Company law requires the Directors We have audited the financial We review whether the Corporate in the financial statements and the to prepare financial statements for statements of SSL International plc Governance statement reflects the part of the Directors remuneration each financial year which give a true which comprise the Profit and Loss Companys compliance with the report to be audited.
and fair view of the state of affairs Account, the Balance Sheet, the seven provisions of the Combined of the Company and of the profit Cash Flow Statement, the Code specified for our review by Opinion or loss for that period.
In preparing Statement of Total Recognised the Listing Rules, and we report if In our opinion the financial those financial statements, the Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation it does not.
We are not required statements give a true and fair Directors are required to: of Movements in Shareholders to consider whether the Boards view of the state of affairs of the Funds, and Notes 1 to 33.
We have statements on internal control cover Company and the Group as at Select suitable accounting also audited the information in the all risks and controls, or form an 31 March 2004 and of the loss of policies and then apply them Directors remuneration report that opinion on the effectiveness of the Group for the year then ended: consistently: is described as having been audited.
the Groups corporate governance and the financial statements Make judgements and estimates procedures or its risk and control and the part of the Directors that are reasonable and prudent: This report is made solely to the procedures.
remuneration report to be audited State whether applicable Companys members, as a body, have been properly prepared in accounting standards have in accordance with section 235 of We read the other information accordance with the Companies been followed, subject to any the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit contained in the Annual Report Act 1985. material departures disclosed work has been undertaken so that and consider whether it is consistent and explained in the financial we might state to the Companys with the audited financial statements: and members those matters we are statements.
This other information Prepare the financial statements required to state to them in an comprises only the Chairmans KPMG Audit Plc on the going concern basis auditors report and for no other Message, the Chief Executives Chartered Accountants unless it is inappropriate to purpose.
To the fullest extent Review, the Operating Review, Registered Auditor presume that the Company will permitted by law, we do not accept the Financial Review, and the 8 Salisbury Square continue in business.
or assume responsibility to anyone unaudited part of the Directors London EC4Y 8BB other than the Company and the remuneration report and the The Directors are responsible for Companys members as a body, Corporate Governance statement.
26 May 2004 keeping proper accounting records for our audit work, for this report, We consider the implications for which disclose with reasonable or for the opinions we have formed.
our report if we become aware accuracy at any time the financial of any apparent misstatements position of the Company and to Respective responsibilities of or material inconsistencies with Notes: enable them to ensure that the Directors and Auditors the financial statements.
The maintenance and integrity financial statements comply with The Directors are responsible for responsibilities do not extend to of the SSL International plc the Companies Act 1985.
They have preparing the Annual Report and any other information.
web site is the responsibility of general responsibility for taking the Directors Remuneration Report.
the Directors: the work carried such steps as are reasonably open As described in the Statement of Basis of audit opinion out by the auditors does not to them to safeguard the assets of Directors Responsibilities, this We conducted our audit in involve consideration of these the Company and to prevent and includes responsibility for preparing accordance with Auditing matters and, accordingly, the detect fraud and other irregularities.
the financial statements in Standards issued by the Auditing auditors accept no responsibility accordance with applicable United Practices Board.
An audit includes for any changes that may have Kingdom law and accounting examination, on a test basis, of occurred to the financial standards.
Our responsibilities, evidence relevant to the amounts statements or audit report since as independent auditors, are and disclosures in the financial they were initially presented on established in the United Kingdom statements and the part of the the web site.
by statute, the Auditing Practices Directors remuneration report to 2.
Legislation in the United Board, the Listing Rules of the be audited.
It also includes an Kingdom governing the Financial Services Authority, and by assessment of the significant preparation and dissemination our professions ethical guidance.
estimates and judgements made of financial statements may by the Directors in the preparation differ from legislation in other We report to you our opinion as to of the financial statements, and jurisdictions.
whether the financial statements of whether the accounting policies give a true and fair view and are appropriate to the Groups whether the financial statements circumstances, consistently applied and the part of the Directors and adequately disclosed.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in We planned and performed our accordance with the Companies audit so as to obtain all the Act 1985.
We also report to you if, information and explanations which in our opinion, the Directors report we considered necessary in order to is not consistent with the financial provide us with sufficient evidence statements, if the Company has to give reasonable assurance that not kept proper accounting records, the financial statements and the if we have not received all the part of the Directors remuneration information and explanations report to be audited are free from we require for our audit, or if material misstatement, whether information specified by law caused by fraud or other irregularity regarding Directors remuneration or error.
In forming our opinion we and transactions with the Group also evaluated the overall adequacy is not disclosed.
of the presentation of information SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 31 Directors Responsibilities and Independent Auditors Report
