Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Basis of audit opinion Stagecoach Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test We have audited the financial statements which comprise the consolidated basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial profit and loss account, the consolidated balance sheet, the Company statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the reconciliation of also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements movements in consolidated shareholders funds, the consolidated made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes to of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys the accounts.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable In our opinion: part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, of the company and the group at 30 April 2004 and of the profit and has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in cash flows of the group for the year then ended: accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility the Companies Act 1985: and for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by.
those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of our prior consent in writing.
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we  LLP require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Glasgow We read the other information contained in the annual report and 23 June 2004 consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives review, the Operating review, the Finance Directors review, the Corporate Governance statement, the Directors report and the unaudited part of the Remuneration report.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
