Independent auditors report to the members of Marconi Corporation plc We have audited the financial statements of Marconi Corporation plc Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 31 March 2004 which comprise the profit and loss We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes of total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and in shareholders interests, the statement of accounting policies, the disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors reconciliation of net cash flow movements in net monetary funds remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an and the related notes 1 to 29.
These financial statements have been assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether audited the information in the part of the directors remuneration report the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the that is described as having been audited.
Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Companys members those matters we are required to state to them statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Opinion Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial In our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the Company and the Group as at 31 March 2004 and of the loss of the other information contained in the annual report including the of the Group for the year then ended: and directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration report as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom described as having been audited have been properly prepared in legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information Deloitte & Touche LLP and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Birmingham Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
9 June 2004 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
