INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TESCO PLC We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We review whether the corporate governance statement reects Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash ow the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review and the related notes which have been prepared under the by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we historical cost convention and the accounting policies set out report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its report the auditable part.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial accounting standards are set out in the statement of statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration Directors responsibilities.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and applied and adequately disclosed.
United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the prepared for and only for the companys members as a body information and explanations which we considered necessary in in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to of the Directors remuneration report are free from material any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall consent in writing.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial OPINION In our opinion: statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration the financial statements give a true and fair view of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the state of affairs of the company and the Group at Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, 28 February 2004 and of the profit and cash ows of the the Directors report is not consistent with the financial Group for the year then ended: statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and the financial statements have been properly prepared in explanations we require for our audit, or if information accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and those parts of the Directors remuneration report required transactions is not disclosed.
by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the We read the other information contained in the annual report Companies Act 1985. and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises  LLP only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the operating London 19 April 2004 and financial review and the corporate governance statement.
