Independent Auditors Report to the Members of THUS Group plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Accounts on pages 28 to 44.
We have also audited the We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of been audited.
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Accounts and the part This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters in the preparation of the Accounts, and of whether the accounting policies we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility adequately disclosed.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Accounts and the part of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, Remuneration Report.
As described on page 20, this includes responsibility for whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we preparing the Accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounting standards.
Accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Opinion Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Accounts give a true and fair the Accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company view and whether the Accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration and the Group as at 31 March 2004 and of the loss of the Group for the year Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the then ended: and Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Accounts, if the Company has not kept proper the Accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors Act 1985. remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 18 to 20 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our KPMG Audit Plc review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Chartered Accountants consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Registered Auditor controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate 8 Salisbury Square governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
London EC4Y 8BB We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the 30 April 2004 Corporate Governance Report and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of Notes: any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Accounts.
a The maintenance and integrity of the THUS Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Accounts or audit report since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
