Statement of Directors responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the financial Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial year and of the profit of the Group for the year.
In preparing these statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible financial statements, the Directors are required to: for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and i select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: other irregularities.
ii make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and iii state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Independent auditors report To the members of Tomkins plc controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate We have audited the financial statements of Tomkins plc for the year governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
ended 1 January 2005 which comprise the profit and loss account, the We read the Directors report and the other information contained in balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the reconciliation of net cash flow the Directors Report and Accounts for the above year as described in to movement in net debt, the statement of total recognised gains and the contents section, including the unaudited part of the Directors losses, the reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds, the principal remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 32.
These financial become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out with the financial statements.
We have also audited the information in the remuneration committee report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the the opinions we have formed.
Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companys and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused information contained in the Directors Report and Accounts including the by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal described as having been audited.
and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 1 January 2005 and the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have of the profit of the Group for the year then ended, and the financial been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' report is not consistent as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper the Companies Act 1985. accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Deloitte & Touche LLP regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
London We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the 23 February 2005 Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the July FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and 22
