Pg 62 Independent auditors report to the members of Trinity Mirror plc We have audited the financial statements of Trinity Mirror plc We read the directors report and the other information contained for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2005 which comprise the in the annual report for the above year as described in the consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated statement contents section including the unaudited part of the directors of total recognised gains and losses, the consolidated balance remuneration report and consider the implications for our report sheet, the consolidated cash ow statement, the reconciliation if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material of movements in consolidated equity shareholders funds, the inconsistencies with the financial statements.
holding company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 31.
These financial statements have been prepared under the Basis of audit opinion accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom the information in the part of the directors remuneration report auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, statements and the part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors to the Companys members those matters we are required in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the adequately disclosed.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation directors remuneration report described as having been audited of the financial statements in accordance with applicable are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also also responsible for the preparation of the other information evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information contained in the annual report including the directors remuneration in the financial statements and the part of the directors report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements remuneration report described as having been audited.
and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom Opinion legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 2 January 2005 statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial and of the profit of the Group for the period then ended: and statements and the part of the directors remuneration report the financial statements and part of the directors described as having been audited have been properly prepared remuneration report described as having been audited have in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent Act 1985. with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the Deloitte & Touche LLP information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information specified by law regarding directors remuneration London and transactions with the Company and other members England of the Group is not disclosed.
3 March 2005 We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
