Pg 96 Independent auditors report to the Board of directors of Trinity Mirror plc on the preliminary comparative IFRS financial information We have audited the accompanying preliminary International Financial Emphasis of matter Reporting Standards IFRS consolidated financial information of Trinity Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the fact that Notes 1 Mirror plc the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group to 5 explain why there is a possibility that the Preliminary Comparative IFRS as at 2 January 2005 which comprises the preliminary consolidated Financial Information may require adjustment before constituting the final income statement, the preliminary consolidated balance sheet, the IFRS Comparative Financial Information.
Moreover, we draw attention preliminary consolidated cash ow statement and related notes hereinafter to the fact that, under IFRS, only a complete set of financial statements referred to as the Preliminary Comparative IFRS Financial Information.
comprising a balance sheet, income statement, statement of changes in equity, cash ow statement, together with final comparative financial This Preliminary Comparative IFRS Financial Information is the information and explanatory notes, can provide a fair presentation responsibility of the Companys directors.
It has been prepared as part of the Groups financial position, results of operations and cash ows of the Companys conversion to IFRS in accordance with the Notes 1 to 5, in accordance with IFRS.
which describe how IFRSs have been applied under IFRS 1, including the assumptions the directors have made about the standards and Opinion interpretations expected to be effective, and the policies expected In our opinion, the accompanying Preliminary Comparative IFRS to be adopted, when the Group prepares its first complete set of IFRS Financial Information as at 2 January 2005 has been prepared, in all financial statements as at 1 January 2006.
Our responsibility is to material respects, in accordance with the basis set out in Notes 1 to 5. express an opinion on this Preliminary Comparative IFRS Financial Information based on our audit.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants Our audit report is made solely to the Companys Board of directors in London accordance with our engagement letter.
Our work has been undertaken England so that we might state to the Companys Board of directors those 3 March 2005 matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Companys Board of directors, for our work, for this report, or for other opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards.
Those Standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the opening balance sheet is free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the opening balance sheet.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial information.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
