Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of United Utilities PLC Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements of United Utilities PLC for the year We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing ended 31 March 2004, which comprise the consolidated profit and loss standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow statement, the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and statement of total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliations of disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors movements in equity shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 35, remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes together with the reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
and the group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for statements, and the part of the directors remuneration report described as no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept having been audited, are free from material misstatement, whether caused or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company, and the by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the the opinions we have formed.
financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the companys Opinion directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in In our opinion: accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information the company and the group as at 31 March 2004 and of the profit of the contained in the annual report, including the directors remuneration group for the year then ended: and report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements, and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited, in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements described as having been audited have been properly prepared in and auditing standards.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements, and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited, have been Deloitte & Touche LLP properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with Manchester the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting 19 May 2004 records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section, including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 35
