Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Avis Europe plc We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise the profit We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects and Loss Account, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses and the FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules related notes which have been prepared under the historical cost of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
convention and the accounting policies set out in the Statement of We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements Accounting Policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate the Directors Remuneration Report the auditable part.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts of Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the auditable for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the the Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 information and explanations which we considered necessary of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other assurance that the Financial Statements and the auditable part purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into of the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Opinion Statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration In our opinion: Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2004 and Directors Report is not consistent with the Financial Statements, of the loss and cash ows of the Group for the year then ended: if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been and consider the implications for our report if we become aware properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only  LLP the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating London and Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
21 March 2005 34 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
