CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Policy The Cookson Code requires all employees, officers and Directors As a leading international group, Cookson recognises that it is to have a duty of loyalty to the Group.
Individuals may not use part of a wider community of stakeholders, including investors, their positions to profit themselves or others at the expense of the employees, customers, business associates and local communities Group.
Personal interests that do, may or might appear to conflict and that appropriate attention to the fulfilment of its corporate with Group interests or improperly influence the performance of an responsibilities can enhance the quality of these relationships.
This, individuals duties must be avoided at all times.
in turn, can lead to improved operational and financial performance.
Cookson seeks to be a good corporate citizen wherever it conducts In structuring its approach to the various aspects of corporate business.
The Cookson Code requires employees to observe all social responsibility, the Company takes account of guidelines national and local laws and never seek to gain any advantage and statements issued by various stakeholder representatives through the inappropriate use of payments, business courtesies or and other regulatory bodies from around the world.
Group businesses Social, environmental and ethical matters are reviewed by the must respect and take into account regional and local concerns, Board, particularly as regards the impact such matters may have customs and traditions.
on the Groups risk management position and the internal control Helpline systems in place for managing any significant associated risks.
Cookson has an Employee Business Concern Helpline and Code of Conduct e-mail facility, which provides Cooksons employees and business The Company has a Code of Conduct Cookson Code, which associates with an independent and confidential service through has been distributed throughout the Group in 12 languages and which to register any concerns they may have about any incorrect by which all its businesses should operate.
The Cookson Code or irregular practices they perceive in Cooksons workplace.
The emphasises the Companys commitment to compliance with the Helpline and e-mail facility are operated by a professional, external highest standards of legal and ethical behaviour.
The Cookson provider of employee support, counselling and business concern Code is reproduced in full on the Groups website.
They are available to all Cookson employees, temporary workers, independent contractors and consultants and may be As stated in the Cookson Code, the primary goal of Cookson is the accessed 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
With the express protection and advancement of the interests of investors by providing permission of the caller or e-mail correspondent, the service attractive returns on a long-term basis.
In striving to achieve this provider reports any matters raised to a designated team at goal, management must conduct its business in a responsible Cooksons Head Office for investigation.
manner, while engaging in careful risk-taking as an essential ingredient of business success.
The Cookson Code requires that particular care be given to the preservation and protection of Group assets by making prudent and effective use of resources.
Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as being essential to the attainment of Group goals, which means listening carefully to customers product and service requirements and maintaining a reputation for integrity in all business and other dealings.
The Group can only achieve its goals through the efforts of its employees.
Cookson recognises that job satisfaction requires working environments that motivate employees to be productive and innovative, and which provide opportunities for employee training and development to maximise personal potential and develop careers within the Group.
The Cookson Code requires all Group companies to ensure that recruitment, training, promotion, career development, termination and similar employment-related issues are based on individual ability, achievement, experience and conduct without regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
40 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004
