Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Viridian Group PLC We have audited the Group's financial statements for the year We read other information contained in the Annual Report ended 31 March 2004 which comprise the Group Profit and and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Loss Account, Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains financial statements.
This other information comprises the and Losses, Group Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Group Financial Highlights, the Chairman's Statement, Group Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 32.
Chief Executives Review, Financial Review, Corporate These financial statements have been prepared on the basis Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the Directors of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Remuneration Report and the Directors' Report.
We consider audited the information in the Directors Remuneration the implications for our report if we become aware of any Report that is described as having been audited.
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a any other information.
body, in accordance with Article 243 of the Companies Northern Ireland Order 1986.
Our audit work has been Basis of audit opinion undertaken so that we might state to the Company's We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Report, including the financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with applicable United We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the information and explanations which we considered necessary Statement of Directors' Responsibilities, in relation to the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give financial statements.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of information in the financial statements and the part of the the Financial Services Authority.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group Report to be audited have been properly prepared in as at 31 March 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the accordance with the Companies Northern Ireland Order year then ended and the financial statements and the part of 1986.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have Northern Ireland Order 1986. not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Ernst & Young LLP Rules regarding directors' remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
Registered Auditor Belfast We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Groups compliance with the seven provisions of 13 May 2004 the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Page Twenty-nine Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004
