Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members Committee Report, unaudited part of the Remuneration Committee of The Weir Group PLC Report, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report and the Group We have audited the Groups accounts for the 53 weeks ended Five Year Summary.
We consider the implications for our report if 31 December 2004 which comprise the Accounting Policies, we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Consolidated profit & Loss Account, Balance Sheets, Cash Flow inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not Statement, Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in extend to any other information.
Net Funds, Statement of Total Recognised Gains & Losses, Basis of audit opinion Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the related We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom notes 1 to 27 and Principal Companies of the Group.
These Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An accounts have been prepared on the basis of the accounting audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report that is described as having the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited.
It also includes been audited.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, by the directors in the preparation of the accounts and of whether in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and companys members those matters we are required to state to performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the to anyone other than the company and the companys members accounts and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by we have formed.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Committee The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report to be audited.
Remuneration Committee Report and the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are Opinion set out in the Directors Responsibilities statement.
Our responsibility In our opinion: is to audit the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Committee the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and the company and of the Group as at 31 December 2004 and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards of the profit of the Group for the 53 weeks then ended: and and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Committee We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give Report to be audited have been properly prepared in a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not Registered Auditor consistent with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper Glasgow accounting records, if we have not received all the information and 21 March 2005 explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
This other information comprises the Financial Highlights 2004, 2004 Highlights, Chairmans Statement, Our products, Our geographic markets, Chief Executives Review, Operational Review, Financial Review, Board of Directors, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement, Audit Committee Report, Nomination The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 39
