Directors responsibility for the financial statement Audit report Statement of directors purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted review, unaudited part of the Directors responsibilities by law, we do not accept or assume Remuneration Report and the Directors responsibility to anyone other than the report We consider the implications for The following statement, which company and the companys members as our report if we become aware of any should be read in conjunction with a body, for our audit work, for this report, apparent misstatements or material the auditorsstatement of their or for the opinions we have formed.
inconsistencies with the financial responsibilities below, is made with a statements.
Our responsibilities do not view to distinguishing for shareholders Respective responsibilities of extend to any other information.
the respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors directors and of the auditors in relation Basis of audit opinion to the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including We conducted our audit in accordance The directors are required by the the financial statements which are with United Kingdom Auditing Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial required to be prepared in accordance Standards issued by the Auditing statements for each financial year which with applicable United Kingdom law Practices Board.
An audit includes give a true and fair view of the state of and accounting standards as set out examination, on a test basis, of evidence affairs of the company and the group as in the Statement of Directors relevant to the amounts and disclosures at the end of the financial year and of Responsibilities in relation to the in the financial statements and the part the profit or loss for the financial year.
of the  Report The directors consider that in preparing to be audited.
It also includes an Our responsibility is to audit the the financial statements on pages 50 to assessment of the significant estimates financial statements and the part of 80, the group has used appropriate and judgements made by the directors the  Report to accounting policies, consistently applied in the preparation of the financial be audited in accordance with relevant and supported by reasonable and prudent statements, and of whether the legal and regulatory requirements, judgements and estimates, and that all accounting policies are appropriate to United Kingdom Auditing Standards applicable Accounting Standards have the groups circumstances, consistently and the Listing Rules of the Financial been followed.
The directors have responsibility for We planned and performed our audit We report to you our opinion as to ensuring that the group keeps accounting so as to obtain all the information and whether the financial statements give records which disclose with reasonable explanations which we considered a true and fair view and whether the accuracy the financial position of the necessary in order to provide us with financial statements and the part of group and which enable them to ensure sufficient evidence to give reasonable the  Report to that the financial statements comply assurance that the financial statements be audited have been properly prepared with the Companies Act 1985. and the part of the Directors in accordance with the Companies Act Remuneration Report to be audited The directors have general responsibility 1985.
We also report to you if, in our are free from material misstatement, for taking such steps as are reasonably opinion, the DirectorsReport is not whether caused by fraud or other open to them to safeguard the assets consistent with the financial irregularity or error.
In forming our of the group and to prevent and detect statements, if the company has not kept opinion we also evaluated the overall fraud and other irregularities.
proper accounting records, if we have adequacy of the presentation of not received all the information and information in the financial statements Independent auditors report to the explanations we require for our audit, and the part of the Directors members of Whitbread PLC or if information specified by law or the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Listing Rules regarding directors We have audited the groups financial remuneration and transactions with Opinion statements for the year ended 4 March the group is not disclosed.
2004 which comprise the Accounting In our opinion: policies, Group profit and loss account, We review whether the Corporate Group statement of total recognised Governance Statement reflects the the financial statements give a true gains and losses, Group note of companys compliance with the seven and fair view of the state of affairs of historical cost profits and losses, provisions of the Combined Code the company and of the group as at 4 Balance sheets, Group cash flow specified for our review by the Listing March 2004 and of the profit of the statement and the related notes 1 to 36.
Rules, and we report if it does not.
We group for the year then ended: and These financial statements have been are not required to consider whether the financial statements and the part prepared on the basis of the accounting the boards statements on internal of the  Report policies set out therein.
We have also control cover all risks and controls, or to be audited have been properly audited the information in the form an opinion on the effectiveness prepared in accordance with the  Report that is of the groups corporate governance Companies Act 1985. described as having been audited.
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP This report is made solely to the Registered Auditor companys members, as a body, in We read other information contained London accordance with Section 235 of the in the Annual Report and consider 4 May 2004 Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work whether it is consistent with the audited has been undertaken so that we might financial statements.
This other state to the companys members those information comprises the chairmans matters we are required to state to them statement, chief executives review, in an auditorsreport and for no other finance directors review, operational page 49
