Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Whatman plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise to consider whether the boards statements on internal the Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on Group cash flow statement, the Group statement of total the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance recognised gains and losses, the Group note of historical procedures or its risk and control procedures.
cost profits and losses, and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Basis of audit opinion Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual statements and the auditable part of the directors report and the financial statements in accordance with remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards the significant estimates and judgements made by the are set out in the statement of directors' responsibilities.
directors in the preparation of the financial statements, The directors are also responsible for preparing the and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate directors remuneration report.
to the Company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the information and explanations which we considered and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements has been prepared for and only for the Companys and the auditable part of the directors remuneration members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of report are free from material misstatement, whether the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person presentation of information in the financial statements.
to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent In our opinion in writing.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 31 December 2004 and of the loss and cash flows statements give a true and fair view and whether the of the Group for the year then ended: financial statements and the auditable part of the the financial statements have been properly prepared directors remuneration report have been properly in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. those parts of the directors remuneration report We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies report is not consistent with the financial statements, Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, with the Companies Act 1985. if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We read the other information contained in the annual Chartered Accountants and report and consider the implications for our report if we Registered Auditors become aware of any apparent misstatements or material London inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other 8 April 2005 information comprises only the chairmans statement, the financial review, the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required Auditors report | 29 NITROCELLULOSE MEMBRANES MEMBRANES COMPRISE AN ESSENTIAL PART OF A LATERAL FLOW TEST, A COMMONLY-USED FORMAT FOR OVER-THE-COUNTER PREGNANCY TESTS AND MANY OTHER DIAGNOSTICS APPLICATIONS.
WHATMANS RANGE OF OPTIMISED MEMBRANES PROVIDE HIGH SENSITIVITY, CONSISTENCY, LOW BACKGROUND INTERFERENCE AND FAST FLOW RATES.
30 | Whatman Annual Report 2004 Whatman Annual Report 2004 | 31
