directors responsibilities and independent auditors report Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies financial year.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements, the The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Independent auditors report We have audited the financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc for the We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on year ended 31st December 2004 which comprise the Group profit and internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or of principal accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 26 together its risk and control procedures.
with the reconciliation of decrease increase in cash to movement in net debt and the notes to the cash flow statement.
These financial We read the Directors report and the other information contained statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the section including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in financial statements.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Basis of audit opinion members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the of the other information contained in the annual report including the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United report described as having been audited are free from material Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the In our opinion: Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31st December 2004 not received all the information and explanations we require for and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors the financial statements and part of the Directors remuneration remuneration and transactions with the Company and other report described as having been audited have been properly members of the Group is not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Deloitte & Touche LLP Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Birmingham of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
2nd March 2005 44 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
