84 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and Basis of audit opinion loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report.
the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration report the auditable part.
made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the financial statements in accordance with applicable We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial for preparing the Directors remuneration report.
statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall of the Directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance Opinion with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
In our opinion: We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior of the Company and the Group at 31 July 2004 and of the profit and consent in writing.
cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable with the Companies Act 1985: and part of the Directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our those parts of the Directors remuneration report required by Part 3 opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and  LLP transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Cornwall Court We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and 19 Cornwall Street Accounts and consider the implications for our report if we become Birmingham aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with B3 2DT the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the 27 September 2004 Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives review, the operating and financial review and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
