We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Independent auditors report the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Independent auditors report to the members of WPP Group plc We have audited the financial statements of WPP Group plc Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with UK auditing profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash ow standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the statement of accounting policies and the related notes the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and 1 to 35.
These financial statements have been prepared the part of the directors remuneration report described as under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the also audited the information in the part of the directors significant estimates and judgements made by the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether This report is made solely to the companys members, as the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies of the company and the group, consistently applied and Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we adequately disclosed.
might state to the companys members those matters we are We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all required to state to them in an auditors report and for no the information and explanations which we considered other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and company and the companys members as a body, for our audit the part of the directors remuneration report described as work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, as having been audited.
the companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the Opinion annual report including the directors remuneration report.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the part of the directors remuneration report described as state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 having been audited in accordance with relevant UK legal December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
then ended: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the financial statements and part of the directors statements give a true and fair view and whether the remuneration report described as having been audited have financial statements and the part of the directors been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies remuneration report described as having been audited have Act 1985. been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Deloitte & Touche LLP directors report is not consistent with the financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting London records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 10 May 2005 specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and WPP Annual Report 2004 169
