Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members Basis of audit opinion of WS Atkins plc We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards We have audited the financial statements which comprise the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated balance examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of statement of total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation the Remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the of movements in Group shareholders funds, the company balance significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the sheet and the related notes which have been prepared under the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the historic cost convention and the accounting policies set out in the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys and the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies disclosed.
Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration report the auditable part.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the of the Remuneration report are free from material misstatement, statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming responsible for preparing the Remuneration report.
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in accordance Opinion with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United In our opinion: Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2004 only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
then ended: We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility the financial statements have been properly prepared in for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly those parts of the Remuneration report required by Part 3 of agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  LLP 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company and London the Group have not kept proper accounting records, if we have 19 July 2004 not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial summary and Business Overview, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review of operations, Financial review, Report of the Directors, Corporate governance report and the unaudited part of the Remuneration report.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the June 1998 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys and Groups Corporate Governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 42
