Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Independent auditors report To the Members of Xansa plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects ended 30 April 2004 which comprise the Consolidated profit and the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the loss account, Statement of total recognised gains and losses, Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, Consolidated balance sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Parent company balance sheet and the related Notes 1 to 27. whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and information in the Report on Directors remuneration that is control procedures.
described as having been audited.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act statements.
This other information comprises the Directors 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might report, unaudited part of the Report on Directors remuneration, state to the Companys members those matters we are required Chairmans statement, Chief Executives statement, Finance to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Directors review and Corporate governance statement.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not We consider the implications for our report if we become aware accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing including the financial statements which are required to be Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Directors Responsibilities in relation to the financial remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of statements.
the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Financial Services Authority.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial assurance that the financial statements and the part of the statements and the part of the Report on Directors Report on Directors remuneration report to be audited are free remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors proper accounting records, if we have not received all the remuneration to be audited.
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is Group as at 30 April 2004 and of the loss of the Group for the not disclosed.
year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 23 June 2004
