56 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 Report of the independent auditors on the financial statements to the members of BAE SYSTEMS plc Independent auditors report to the accounting records, if we have not received all We planned and performed our audit so as to members of BAE SYSTEMS plc the information and explanations we require for obtain all the information and explanations We have audited the financial statements on our audit, or if information specified by law which we considered necessary in order to pages 58 to 105.
We have also audited the regarding directors remuneration and provide us with sufficient evidence to give information in the directors remuneration transactions with the group is not disclosed.
reasonable assurance that the financial report that is described as having been audited.
statements and the part of the directors We review whether the corporate governance remuneration report to be audited are free This report is made solely to the companys statement on pages 34 to 41 reflects the from material misstatement, whether caused companys compliance with the nine provisions members, as a body, in accordance with Section by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work our opinion we also evaluated the overall by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
has been undertaken so that we might state to adequacy of the presentation of information We are not required to consider whether the the companys members those matters we are in the financial statements and the part of the Boards statements on internal control cover required to state to them in an auditors report directors remuneration report to be audited.
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the effectiveness of the groups corporate permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Opinion governance procedures or its risk and responsibility to anyone other than the company In our opinion: control procedures.
and the companys members as a body, for our - the financial statements give a true and fair audit work, for this report, or for the opinions view of the state of affairs of the company and We read the other information contained in we have formed.
the group as at 31 December 2004 and of the the Annual Report, including the corporate loss of the group for the year then ended: and governance statement and the unaudited part Respective responsibilities of directors - the financial statements and the part of the of the directors remuneration report, and and auditors directors remuneration report to be audited consider whether it is consistent with the The directors are responsible for preparing the have been properly prepared in accordance audited financial statements.
We consider the Annual Report and the directors remuneration with the Companies Act 1985. implications for our report if we become aware report.
As described on page 39, this includes of any apparent misstatements or material responsibility for preparing the financial inconsistencies with the financial statements.
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Basis of audit opinion Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, We conducted our audit in accordance with are established in the United Kingdom by Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the our professions ethical guidance.
amounts and disclosures in the financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the statements and the part of the directors financial statements give a true and fair view remuneration report to be audited.
It also and whether the financial statements and the includes an assessment of the significant part of the directors remuneration report to be estimates and judgements made by the audited have been properly prepared in directors in the preparation of the financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We statements, and of whether the accounting also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors policies are appropriate to the groups report is not consistent with the financial circumstances, consistently applied and statements, if the company has not kept proper adequately disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc London Chartered 23 February 2005 Accountants Registered Auditor
