Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Grainger Trust plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the statement of accounting policies, the Basis of audit opinion consolidated profit and loss account, the statement of group total recognised gains and losses, note We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices of group historical cost profits and losses, balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration committee report.
the Companies Act 1985 contained in the remuneration committee report the auditable part.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance remuneration committee report.
that the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration committee report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial committee report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom statements.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 Opinion of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or In our opinion: assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at 30 September 2004 and of the profit and cash flows of the group for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration committee report have and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in those parts of the remuneration committee report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our Chartered accountants and registered auditors report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Newcastle upon Tyne financial statements.
The other information comprises only the chairmans statement, the chief 21 December 2004 executives statement, the operating and financial review, the corporate governance report, the directors report, the corporate social responsibility report and the unaudited part of the remuneration committee report.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The maintenance and integrity of the Grainger Trust plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual report and accounts 2004 31 Grainger Trust plc
