Pillar Property PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2004 27 We have audited the financial statements on pages 28 to 45.
We have also Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is described Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes as having been audited.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the directors remuneration misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
As described on page 20, this includes responsibility for preparing the our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are report to be audited.
established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions Opinion ethical guidance.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors company and the group as at 31 March 2004 and of the profit of the group for remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance the year then ended: and with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified Act 1985. by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is KPMG Audit Plc not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants, We review whether the statement on page 26 reflects the companys Registered Auditor compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our London review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required 27 May 2004 to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Notes: We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Pillar Property PLC web site is the the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements or audit report since they were initially presented financial statements.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
