48 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of Quintain Estates and Development PLC We have audited the financial We review whether the statement overall adequacy of the presentation statements on pages 49 to 71.
We on pages 24 to 27 reflect the Companys of information in the financial statements have also audited the information in compliance with the seven provisions and the part of the directors remuneration the directors remuneration report that of the Combined Code specified for report to be audited.
is described as having been audited.
our review by the Listing Rules, and we Opinion report if it does not.
We are not required to This report is made solely to the In our opinion: consider whether the boards statements Companys members, as a body, on internal control cover all risks and the financial statements give a true in accordance with section 235 of the controls, or form an opinion on the and fair view of the state of affairs of Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work effectiveness of the Groups corporate the Company and the Group as at has been undertaken so that we might governance procedures or its risk and 31 March 2004 and of the profit of the state to the Companys members those control procedures.
Group for the year then ended: and matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other We read the other information the financial statements and the part purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted contained in the Annual Report, of the directors remuneration report by law, we do not accept or assume including the corporate governance to be audited have been properly responsibility to anyone other than the statement and the unaudited part of prepared in accordance with the Company and the Companys members the directors remuneration report, Companies Act 1985. as a body, for our audit work, for this and consider whether it is consistent report, or for the opinions we have formed.
with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our Respective responsibilities report if we become aware of any KPMG Audit Plc of directors and auditors apparent misstatements or material The directors are responsible for inconsistencies with the financial Chartered Accountants preparing the Annual Report and statements.
Registered Auditor the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 27, this includes Basis of audit opinion KPMG Audit Plc responsibility for preparing the financial We conducted our audit in accordance 8 Salisbury Square statements in accordance with applicable with Auditing Standards issued by the London United Kingdom law and accounting Auditing Practices Board.
Our responsibilities, as includes examination, on a test basis, independent auditors, are established of evidence relevant to the amounts and in the United Kingdom by statute, the disclosures in the financial statements Auditing Practices board, the Listing and the part of the directors remuneration Rules of the Financial Services Authority, report to be audited.
It also includes an and by our professions ethical guidance.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in We report to you our opinion as to the preparation of the financial statements, whether the financial statements give and of whether the accounting policies a true and fair view and whether the are appropriate to the Groups financial statements and the part of circumstances, consistently applied the directors remuneration report to and adequately disclosed.
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies We planned and performed our audit Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in so as to obtain all the information and our opinion, the directors report is not explanations which we considered consistent with the financial statements, necessary in order to provide us with if the Company has not kept proper sufficient evidence to give reasonable accounting records, if we have not assurance that the financial statements received all the information and and the part of the directors remuneration explanations we require for our audit, report to be audited are free from material or if information specified by law regarding misstatement, whether caused by fraud directors remuneration and transactions or other irregularity or error.
In forming with the Group is not disclosed.
our opinion we also evaluated the
