BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Independent auditors report to the members of BG Group plc We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects consolidated profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors or its risk and control procedures.
Remuneration Report the auditable part.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the auditable part statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been information and explanations which we considered necessary in prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no assurance that the Financial Statements and the auditable part other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume of the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the presentation of information in the Financial Statements and auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial OPINION Statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the Financial Statements give a true and 61 Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the 31 December 2004 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group Directors Report is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if for the year then ended: the Financial Statements have been the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and not received all the information and explanations we require for those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by Part our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the  LLP items listed in the contents section of the Annual Report, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors excluding the 2004 Audited Financial Statements and the 1 Embankment Place auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
