Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Alliance & Leicester plc We have audited the financial statements of Alliance & Leicester Basis of Audit Opinion plc for the year ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom consolidated profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An consolidated cash ow statement, the reconciliation of movements audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant in shareholders funds, the statement of accounting policies and to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the the related notes 1 to 45.
These financial statements have been part of the directors remuneration report described as having been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates have also audited the information in the part of the directors and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Companys members those matters we are required to state information and explanations which we considered necessary to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume assurance that the financial statements and the part of the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the directors remuneration report described as having been audited Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud report, or for the opinions we have formed.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors information in the financial statements and the part of the As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Opinion law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the In our opinion: preparation of the other information contained in the annual the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state report including the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
report described as having been audited have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared Deloitte & Touche LLP in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent Birmingham with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper 24 February 2005 accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
