AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 61 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF AMLIN PLC We have audited the financial statements of Amlin plc for the year Basis of audit opinion ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the profit and loss account, We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the statement standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes of accounting policies and the related notes numbered 1 to 33.
These examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys disclosed.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and report described as having been audited.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the Opinion directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the In our opinion financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give report described as having been audited have been properly prepared a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Deloitte & Touche LLP specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
London 7 March 2005 We review whether the corporate governance statements reflect the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
