Aviva plc 2004 Independent auditors report to the directors of Aviva plc on the alternative method of reporting long-term business profits We have audited the supplementary information on pages 128 to 145 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004, which comprises a European Embedded Value basis Summarised profit and loss account, Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders funds, Summarised consolidated balance sheet and the related notes and analyses.
The supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with the CFO Forum Principles as described on, and using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 132 to 134.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the accounts prepared on the modied statutory solvency basis, which are on pages 64 to 111.
This report is made solely to the Companys directors, as a body.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys directors those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys directors as a body, for our audit work in respect of this report, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including, as described on page 49, the accounts prepared on the modied statutory solvency basis.
Our responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report, including those accounts, are set out on page 63.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the supplementary information on the above European Embedded Value basis.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, in relation to the supplementary information are established in the UK by the Auditing Practices Board and our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the supplementary information has been properly prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value basis.
We also report to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit of the supplementary information.
We also read the other information in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the supplementary information.
The other information comprises the Highlights of the year, the Chairmans statement, Business overview, Group chief executives review, Operating review, Employees, Corporate social responsibility, Financial review, Directors report, Corporate governance statement, Audit committee report, Nomination committee report and the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the supplementary information, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information stated on the European Embedded Value basis is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the supplementary information.
Opinion In our opinion, the supplementary information for the year ended 31 December 2004 has been properly prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value basis, using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 132 to 134.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 8 March 2005 146
