Aviva plc 2004 Independent auditors report to Aviva plc on the preliminary IFRS consolidated financial statements at 1 January 2004 To the Board of Directors of Aviva Plc We have audited the accompanying preliminary International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS consolidated financial statements of Aviva plc at 1 January 2004 which comprise the preliminary opening IFRS consolidated balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, the analysis of adjustments to the consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2004 as a result of the transition to IFRS and related accounting policies notes set out on pages 114 to 126.
This report is made solely to Aviva plc the Company in accordance with our engagement letter dated 23 November 2004.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility or liability to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors These preliminary IFRS consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys directors and have been prepared as part of the Groups conversion to IFRS.
They have been prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation and transitional arrangements upon first time adoption of IFRS on pages 114 and 115.
These describe how IFRS have been applied under IFRS1, including the assumptions management has made about the standards and interpretations expected to be effective, and the policies expected to be adopted, when management prepares its first complete set of IFRS consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2005.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with UK Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Those Standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the preliminary IFRS consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the preliminary IFRS consolidated financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the preliminary IFRS consolidated financial statements.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Emphasis of matter Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the fact that, as outlined in the basis of preparation on page 114, the preliminary opening IFRS consolidated financial statements may require adjustment before constituting the final IFRS consolidated financial statements.
Moreover, we draw attention to the fact that, under IFRSs only a complete set of financial statements with comparative financial information and explanatory notes can provide a fair presentation of the Groups financial position, results of operations and cash ows in accordance with IFRSs.
Opinion In our opinion, the preliminary IFRS consolidated financial statements as at 1 January 2004 have been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the basis set out in the accounting policies note, which describes how IFRS have been applied under IFRS1, including the assumptions management has made about the standards and interpretations expected to be effective, and the policies expected to be adopted, when management prepares its first complete set of IFRS consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2005.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 8 March 2005 127 Auditors report on IFRS
