Aviva plc 2004 Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended 31 December whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
This other 2004 which comprise the Accounting policies, the Consolidated profit information comprises the Highlights of the year, Chairmans statement, and loss account, Pro forma reconciliation of Group operating profit to Business overview, Group Chief Executives review, Operating review, profit on ordinary activities before tax, Consolidated statement of total Employees, Corporate social responsibility, Financial review, Directors recognised gains and losses, Reconciliation of movements in report, Corporate governance statement, Audit committee report, consolidated shareholders funds, Consolidated Group balance sheet, Nomination committee report and the unaudited part of the Directors Consolidated cash ow statement, Company balance sheet and the remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if related notes 1 to 51.
These accounts have been prepared on the basis we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us the accounts which are required to be prepared in accordance with with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are the Statement of directors responsibilities on page 49 in relation to the free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other accounts.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the Directors part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Equalisation provision Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Our evaluation of the presentation of information in the accounts has had regard to the statutory requirement for insurance companies to We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true maintain an equalisation provision.
The nature of the equalisation and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors provision, the amount set aside at 31 December 2004 and the effect of remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in the movement in the provision during the year on the general business accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in technical result and profit on ordinary activities before tax, are disclosed our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if in accounting policy U and note 40 to the accounts the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, Opinion or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors In our opinion: remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
The accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the We review whether the Corporate governance statement reects the Company and of the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code of the Group for the year then ended: and specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services The accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Companies Act 1985. controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 8 March 2005 63 Auditors report
