Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC We have audited the accounts which comprise the Group We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Statement of Total Return, the Group and Company Balance reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the which have been prepared under the historical cost convention Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets and the it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
directors remuneration report the auditable part.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes and the accounts in accordance with applicable United examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the and disclosures in the accounts and the auditable part of the statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and information and explanations which we considered necessary only for the companys members as a body in accordance with in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other reasonable assurance that the accounts and the auditable part purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume of the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a Opinion true and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable In our opinion: part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We affairs of the Company and Group at 31 October 2004 also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors and of the total return and cash flows of the Group for the is not consistent with the accounts, if the company has not year then ended: kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance information specified by law regarding directors remuneration with the Companies Act 1985: and and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required We read the other information contained in the annual report by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have and consider the implications for our report if we become been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies aware of any apparent misstatements or material Act 1985. inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Portfolio Review,  LLP the Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance London Statement.
7 January 2005 The accounts are published on the following websites: www.
com, which are websites maintained by the Companys Investment Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the websites maintained by Henderson or any of its subsidiaries are, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Henderson.
The work we carry out as auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of these websites and accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the accounts following their initial presentation on the websites.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
