Independent Auditors reports UK Audit Report of the Independent Auditors to the Members of The maintenance and integrity of the Barclays website is the Barclays PLC responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors We have audited the accounts on pages 124 to 195 which comprise does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented Notes which have been prepared under the historical cost convention, on the website.
as modified by the revaluation of certain assets, and the accounting Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and policies set out on pages 124 to 129. dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A other jurisdictions.
to the Companies Act 1985 the auditable part contained in the Basis of Audit Opinion Barclays Report on Remuneration contained on pages 31 to 38.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Barclays Report on Remuneration and the accounts in accordance with in the accounts and the auditable part of the Barclays Report on applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out Remuneration.
It also includes an assessment of the significant in the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 40. estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable part of to the Companys and Groups circumstances, consistently applied and the Barclays Report on Remuneration in accordance with relevant legal adequately disclosed.
and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members information and explanations which we considered necessary in order as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985, to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or that the accounts and the auditable part of the Barclays Report on assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Remuneration are free from material misstatement, whether caused whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the auditable part of the Barclays Report We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true on Remuneration.
and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable part of the Barclays Report on Remuneration have been properly prepared in Opinion accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in In our opinion: our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the accounts, the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the if the Company or Group has not kept proper accounting records, if we Company and the Group at 31st December 2004 and of the profit have not received all the information and explanations we require for and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and those parts of the Barclays Report on Remuneration required by consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, Group Chief Executive Statement, Group Finance Directors Review, Corporate Governance Report, the unaudited part of the Barclays Report on Remuneration, Accountability and Audit, Presentation of  LLP information, Risk Management, Financial Data, Business Description Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and Financial Review.
London, United Kingdom, 10th March 2005 We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys and Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups Corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 US Audit Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Barclays PLC and its subsidiary undertakings on pages 124 to 223 and Barclays Bank PLC and its subsidiary undertakings on pages 228 to 237.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Barclays PLC and its subsidiary undertakings and Barclays Bank PLC and its subsidiary undertakings at 31st December 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31st December 2004 in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom vary in certain significant respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The application of the latter would have affected the determination of consolidated net income foreachof the three years in the period ended 31st December 2004 and the determination of consolidated shareholders equity at 31st December 2004 and 2003 to the extent summarised in Note 52 to the consolidated financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom, 10th March 2005 123 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies Accounting Policies c Shares in subsidiary undertakings Barclays PLCs investment in Barclays Bank PLC, together with Barclays Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Bank PLCs investments in subsidiary undertakings, are stated at the a Accounting convention amount of the underlying net asset, including attributable goodwill.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, Changes in the value of the net assets are accounted for as movements as modified by the revaluation of certain properties, assets held for in the revaluation reserve.
dealing purposes, assets held in the long-term assurance business and d Interests in associated undertakings and joint ventures the investment in Barclays Bank PLC in the balance sheet of Barclays An associated undertaking generally is one in which the Groups PLC.
They are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting interest is more than 20% and no more than 50% and where the standards of the UK Accounting Standards Board ASB and Group exercises a significant influence over the entitys operating pronouncements of its Urgent Issues Task Force UITF and with the and financial policies.
A joint venture is one where the Group holds Statements of Recommended Accounting Practice SORPs issued by an interest on a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the British Bankers Association BBA and the Finance and Leasing the Group and one or more other parties.
The profit and loss account Association FLA. includes income from interests in associated undertakings and joint The SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI addresses ventures based on accounts made up to dates not earlier than three the accounting and disclosure of insurance business for insurance months before the balance sheet date.
Barclays is primarily a banking group, not an insurance undertakings and joint ventures are included in the consolidated group, and prepares accounts in accordance with Schedule 9 of the balance sheet at the Groups share of the book value of the net assets Companies Act 1985.
The ABI SORP does not specifically address the of the undertakings concerned plus unamortised goodwill arising on accounting for long-term assurance business in this context.
In line the acquisition of the interest.
with other such banking groups, Barclays uses the embedded value In the ordinary course of the private equity business the Group makes method to measure the shareholders interest in its long-term investments that might be classified as joint ventures.
As required by assurance business, which is consistent with the alternative FRS 9 Associates and Joint Ventures, these investments are accounted measurement method described in guidance issued by the ABI for at cost, less any provision for impairment.
This is a departure from Supplementary Reporting for Long-Term Insurance Business and is the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 which requires joint considered more relevant than the modified statutory solvency basis ventures to be accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
for describing the financial position and current performance of The Directors believe that this departure is necessary to present a true the business.
and fair view of these investments.
Accounting for these investments Changes to the accounting policies described in the 2003 Annual in accordance with the Companies Act would increase Interests in Report are set out on page 129. joint ventures share of gross assets by 281m, Interests in joint ventures share of gross liabilities by 149m and Loss from joint b Consolidation and format ventures by 1m.
The consolidated accounts have been prepared in compliance with Sections 230, 255, 255A and 255B of, and Schedule 9 to, the e Goodwill Companies Act 1985 the Act.
The profit and loss account and Goodwill may arise on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated balance sheet of Barclays PLC have been prepared in compliance with undertakings and joint ventures.
It represents the excess of cost over Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Act.
fair value of the Groups share of net assets acquired.
The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Barclays PLC and In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 10, goodwill is its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31st December.
Entities that capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised through the profit and do not qualify as subsidiaries but which give rise to benefits that are, loss account over its expected useful economic life.
For acquisitions in substance, no different from those that would arise were the entity prior to 1st January 1998, the Group accounting policy had been to a subsidiary, are included in the consolidated accounts.
Details of the write-off goodwill directly to reserves.
The transitional arrangements principal subsidiary undertakings are given in Note 50.
In order to of FRS 10 allow this goodwill to remain eliminated.
In the event of a reflect the different nature of the shareholders and policyholders subsequent disposal, any goodwill previously charged directly against interests in the retail long-term assurance business, the value of the reserves prior to FRS 10 will be written back and reflected in the profit long-term assurance business attributable to shareholders is included and loss account.
in Other Assets and the assets and liabilities attributable to The useful economic life of the goodwill is determined at the time policyholders are classified under separate headings in the of the acquisition giving rise to it by considering the nature of the consolidated balance sheet.
acquired business, the economic environment in which it operates As the consolidated accounts include partnerships where a Group and period of time over which the value of the business is expected to member is a partner, advantage has been taken of the exemption exceed the values of the identifiable net assets.
For acquisitions in less given by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies mature economic environments, goodwill is generally considered to Accounts Regulations 1993 with regard to the preparation and filing have a useful economic life of five years.
For all other acquisitions, of individual partnership accounts.
goodwill is generally expected to have a useful economic life of 20 years.
In all cases, goodwill is amortised over its useful economic life Equity minority interests in the balance sheet represent the interests of and is subject to regular review as set out in policy k. third parties in the equity shares of the Group subsidiary undertakings.
124 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 For the purpose of calculating goodwill, fair values of acquired assets Fee income relating to loans and advances is recognised in the profit and liabilities are determined by reference to market values, where and loss account to match the cost of providing a continuing service, available, or by reference to the current price at which similar assets together with a reasonable profit margin.
Where a fee is charged in could be acquired or similar obligations entered into, or by discounting lieu of interest, it is recognised in the profit and loss account as expected future cash flows to present value.
This discounting is either interest receivable on a level yield basis over the life of the advance.
performed using market rates or by using risk-free rates and riskFees and commissions receivable in respect of all other services adjusted expected future cash flows.
provided are recognised in the profit and loss account when the related services are performed and when considered recoverable.
f Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at Income arises from the margins which are achieved through marketrates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
Overseas profits and making and customer business and from changes in market value losses are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the caused by movements in interest and exchange rates, equity prices year.
Profits arising in areas experiencing hyperinflation are adjusted and other market variables.
Trading positions are valued on a mark to to recognise its effect on the worth of the working capital employed.
The resulting income is included in dealing profits along Exchange differences arising from the application of closing rates with interest and dividends arising from long and short positions and of exchange to the opening net assets held overseas, the retranslation funding costs relating to trading activities.
of the result for the year from the average rate to the closing rate and i Lending related fees and commissions payable and incentives to related foreign currency borrowings are taken directly to reserves.
Fees and commissions payable to introducers in respect of obtaining All other exchange profits and losses, which arise from normal trading certain lending business, where this is the primary form of activities, are included in the profit and loss account.
distribution, are charged to the profit and loss account as fees g Shareholders interest in the retail long-term assurance fund and commissions payable, over the anticipated life of the loans.
The value of the shareholders interest in the Groups retail long-term The costs of mortgage incentives, which comprise cashbacks and assurance business represents an estimate of the net present value of interest discounts, are charged to the profit and loss account as a the profits inherent in the in-force policies, based on the advice of reduction to interest receivable as incurred.
qualified actuaries, together with the surplus retained within the longterm assurance funds.
This value is calculated after tax.
Changes in the The amount of a fee payable by a borrower representing an insurance value placed on the long-term assurance business attributable to premium, in respect of high loan to value UK residential secured loans shareholders are included in the profit and loss account.
is deferred and included in accruals and deferred income in the Group balance sheet.
Deferred income is released to the profit and loss For the purpose of presentation, the change in value is grossed up at account over the average life of the loan.
the effective rate of corporation tax.
j Tangible fixed assets In estimating the net present value of the profits inherent in the Tangible fixed assets are carried at original cost or, for certain in-force policies, the calculations use assumptions for economic properties, at subsequent valuation, less related depreciation, parameters future investment returns, expense inflation and risk calculated on the revalued amount where appropriate.
Following discount rate, taxation, mortality, persistency, expenses and the the introduction of FRS 15 in 2000, the revalued book amounts are required levels of regulatory and solvency capital.
Each of these retained without subsequent revaluation, subject to the requirement assumptions is reviewed annually.
The returns on fixed interest to test for impairment.
investments are set to market yields at the period end.
The returns on UK and overseas equities and property are set to fixed interest returns Tangible fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their plus a margin to reflect the additional return expected on each of useful economic lives at the following annual rates: these investments.
The calculations are based on the market value of Freehold buildings and long-leasehold property assets at the period end.
The expense inflation assumption is based on more than 50 years to run 2% long-term expectations of both earnings and retail price inflation.
The Leasehold property over the remaining risk discount rate is set to market yields on Government securities plus less than 50 years to run life of the lease a margin to allow for the risks borne.
The mortality, persistency and Costs of adaptation of freehold and expense assumptions are chosen to represent best estimates of future a leasehold property 10% experience and are based on current business experience.
No credit is Equipment installed in freehold and taken for favourable changes in experience unless it is reasonably a leasehold property 10% certain to be delivered.
The projected tax charges and the required Computers and similar equipment 20%-33% levels of regulatory and solvency capital are based on current legislation.
Fixtures and fittings and other equipment 20% h Revenue recognition Note a Where a leasehold has a remaining useful life of less than ten years, costs of Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account as it adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the remaining life accrues, with the exception of interest on non-performing loans as of the lease.
set out in accounting policy l on page 126.
125 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies The Group selects its depreciation rates carefully and reviews them Gradings are used to rate the credit quality of borrowers.
Each grade regularly to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When corresponds to an Expected Default Frequency and is calculated by setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the Group takes using manual or computer driven score-sheets validated by an analysis into account are the expected rate of technological developments, of the Groups own historical data.
This grade can be derived from expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity different sources depending upon the borrower e. g. internal model, at which the assets are expected to be used.
The general provision also takes into account the economic climate in the market in which the Group operates and the No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
level of security held in relation to each category of counterparty.
k Impairment The general provision includes a specifically identified element to cover Tangible fixed assets and goodwill are subject to impairment review country transfer risk calculated on a basis consistent with the overall in accordance with FRS 11 if there are events or changes in general provision calculation.
General provisions are created with respect circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount of the fixed to the recoverability of assets arising from off balance sheet exposures in asset or goodwill may not be fully recoverable.
The impairment review a manner consistent with the general provisioning methodology.
comprises a comparison of the carrying amount of the fixed asset or The aggregate specific and general provisions which are made during goodwill with its recoverable amount, which is the higher of net the year, less amounts released and recoveries of bad debts previously realisable value and value in use.
Net realisable value is calculated by written off, are charged against operating profit and are deducted reference to the amount at which the asset could be disposed of.
Impaired lendings are written off against the Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash balance sheet asset and provision in part, or in whole, when the extent flows obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those of the loss incurred has been confirmed.
resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
The carrying values of fixed assets and goodwill are written If the collection of interest is doubtful, it is credited to a suspense down by the amount of any impairment and this loss is recognised in the account and excluded from interest income in the profit and loss profit and loss account in the period in which it occurs.
If the occurrence account, although it continues to be charged to the customers of an external event gives rise to a reversal of an impairment loss, the accounts.
The suspense account in the balance sheet is netted against reversal is recognised in the profit and loss account and by increasing the the relevant loan.
If the collection of interest is considered to be carrying amount of the fixed asset or goodwill in the period in which it remote, interest is no longer applied and suspended interest is written occurs.
The carrying amount of the fixed asset or goodwill will only be off.
Loans on which interest is suspended are not reclassified as increased up to the amount that it would have been had the original accruing interest until interest and principal payments are up to date impairment not occurred.
For the purpose of conducting impairment and future payments are reasonably assured.
reviews, income generating units are identified as groups of assets, Assets acquired in exchange for advances in order to achieve an liabilities and associated goodwill that generate income that is largely orderly realisation continue to be reported as advances.
The asset independent of other income streams.
The assets and liabilities include acquired is recorded at the carrying value of the original advance those directly involved in generating the income and an appropriate updated as at the date of the exchange.
Any subsequent impairment proportion of those used to generate more than one income stream.
is accounted for as a specific provision.
l Loans and Advances m Debt Securities and Equity Shares Loans and advances, other than those held in a dealing portfolio, are Investment securities are debt securities and equity shares intended recorded in the balance sheet at cost, less interest in suspense debited for use on a continuing basis by the Group and identified as such.
to the customers account, specific and general provisions.
Advances Investment securities are stated at cost less any provision for held in a dealing portfolio for the purpose of trading on a secondary impairment.
The cost of dated investment securities is adjusted for the market are valued at the lower of cost and market value.
Market values amortisation of premiums or discounts on purchase over the period to are based on independent price quotations.
The amortisation of premiums and discounts is included Specific provisions are raised when the Group considers that the in interest receivable.
creditworthiness of a borrower has deteriorated such that the recovery Other debt securities and equity shares are stated at market value and of the whole or part of an outstanding advance is in serious doubt.
For profits and losses arising from this revaluation are taken directly to the larger accounts, this is done on an individual basis, by taking into account profit and loss account through dealing profits.
Listed securities are relevant considerations that have a bearing on expected cashflows, valued based on market prices, with long positions at bid and short although scope exists within the retail businesses, where the portfolio positions at offer price.
Unlisted securities are valued based on the comprises homogeneous assets and where statistical techniques are Directors estimate, which takes into consideration discounted cash appropriate, to raise specific provisions on a portfolio basis.
flows, price earnings ratios and other valuation techniques.
General provisions are raised to cover losses which are judged to be In the case of private equity investments, listed and unlisted present in loans and advances at the balance sheet date, but which investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
have not been specifically identified as such.
These provisions are adjusted at least half yearly by an appropriate charge or release of Investment and other securities may be lent or sold subject to a general provision based on a statistical analysis.
The accuracy of this commitment to repurchase them.
Securities lent or sold are retained analysis is periodically assessed against actual losses.
on the balance sheet where substantially all the risks and rewards of 126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 ownership remain with the Group.
Similarly, securities purchased earnings of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated subject to a commitment to resell are treated as collateralised lending undertakings except to the extent that dividends have been accrued or transactions where the Group does not acquire the risks and rewards a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in the future has been of ownership.
n Pensions and Other Post-retirement Benefits Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected The Group provides pension plans for employees in most parts of the to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected world.
Arrangements for staff retirement benefits in overseas locations to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or vary from country to country and are made in accordance with local substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not regulations and customs.
For defined contribution schemes, the discounted.
pension cost recognised in the profit and loss account represents the q Non-credit Risk Provisions contributions payable to the scheme.
The majority of UK staff are Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as members of The Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund the UKRF which consequences of past events where it is probable that a transfer of comprises five sections.
These are a defined benefit scheme the 1964 economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation and it can Pension Scheme and a defined contribution scheme the Retirement be reliably estimated.
Investment Scheme, which are both now closed to new members, a hybrid scheme, afterwork, and a defined contribution scheme, the When a leasehold property ceases to be used in the business, provision Pension Investment Plan.
Details are set out in Note 4.
Other UK staff is made where the unavoidable costs of the future obligations relating are covered by broadly comparable schemes which are accounted for to the lease are expected to exceed anticipated income.
The provision on a comparable basis.
The assets of the UKRF are held separately is discounted using market rates to reflect the long-term nature of the from the assets of the Group and are administered by a trustee.
pension cost for the defined benefit scheme is assessed in accordance When the Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring with the advice of a qualified actuary, using the projected unit method.
a business and has raised valid expectations in those affected by Variations from the regular cost are allocated over the expected the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing average service lives of current employees.
Provisions for pensions its main features, provision is made for the anticipated cost of arise when the profit and loss account charge exceeds the contribution the restructuring, including redundancy costs.
The provision raised to the scheme as a result of actuarial valuations.
These provisions will is normally utilised within 12 months.
be eliminated over the estimated service lives of the employees.
The basis of estimation is set out in Note 4 on page 140.
The Group also Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will provides post-retirement health care to certain staff and pensioners be confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations in the UK and US.
Where appropriate, provisions for post-retirement where the transfer of economic benefit is uncertain or cannot be benefits are raised on a basis similar to that detailed for defined reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but are benefit pension schemes.
Where an actuarial basis is not appropriate, disclosed unless they are remote.
provisions are recognised in accordance with the policy on non-credit r Derivatives risk provisions see q below.
Derivatives are used to hedge interest, exchange rate, commodity and o Finance Leases equity exposures related to non-trading positions.
Instruments used Assets leased to customers under agreements which transfer for hedging purposes include swaps, equity derivatives, forward rate substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, other than legal agreements, futures, options and combinations of these instruments.
title, are classified as finance leases.
Finance lease receivables are In addition, the use of derivatives and their sale to customers as risk included in loans and advances to customers.
Gross earnings under management products is an integral part of the Groups trading finance leases are allocated to accounting periods in such a way as activities.
Derivatives entered into for trading purposes include to give a constant periodic rate of return on the net cash investment.
swaps, equity derivatives, credit derivatives, commodity derivatives, Finance lease receivables are stated at the cost of the equipment, forward rate agreements, futures, options and combinations of including gross earnings to date, less rentals received to date.
p Deferred Tax Derivatives used for asset and liability management purposes Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of timing differences that Derivatives used for hedging purposes are measured on an accruals have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Timing basis consistent with the assets, liabilities, positions or future cash differences are differences between the Groups taxable profits and its flows being hedged.
The gains and losses on these instruments arising results as stated in the accounts that arise from the inclusion of gains from changes in fair value are not recognised in the profit and loss and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which account immediately as they arise.
Such gains are either not they are recognised in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not recognised in the balance sheet or are recognised and carried forward.
Deferred tax assets are recognised When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or loss is recognised in to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they the profit and loss account at the same time as the hedged item.
Deferred tax is not provided on the unremitted 127 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies The criteria required for a derivative instrument to be classified as a Derivatives used for trading purposes designated hedge are that: Derivatives entered into as trading transactions, together with any associated hedging, are measured at fair value and the resultant profits i the transaction must be reasonably expected to match or eliminate and losses are included in dealing profits, along with interest and a significant proportion of the risk inherent in the assets, liabilities, dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs other positions or cash flows being hedged and which results from relating to trading activities.
Assets and liabilities resulting from gains potential movements in market rates and credit risk: and or losses on derivative and foreign exchange contracts are reported ii adequate evidence of the intention to hedge and linkage with the gross in other assets or liabilities, reduced by the effects of qualifying underlying risk inherent in the assets, liabilities, other positions or cash netting agreements with counterparties.
flows being hedged, must be established at the outset of the The fair value of derivatives is determined by calculating the expected transaction.
cash flows under the terms of each specific contract, discounted back Designated hedges are reviewed for effectiveness by regular tests to a present value.
The expected cash flows for each contract are to determine that the hedge is closely negatively correlated to the determined either directly by reference to actual cash flows implicit designated hedged position in each and every identified time band in observable market prices or through modelling cash flows using in the maturity profile.
Profits and losses on interest rate swaps and options entered into The effect of discounting expected cash flows back to present value for hedging purposes are measured on an accrual accounting basis, is achieved by constructing discount curves derived from the market included in the related category of income and expense and reported price of the most appropriate observable interest rate products such as part of the yield on the hedged transaction.
Amounts paid or as deposits, interest rate futures and swaps.
In addition, the Group received over the life of futures contracts are deferred until the maintains fair value adjustments reflecting the cost of credit risk contract is closed: accumulated deferred amounts on futures contracts where this is not embedded in the fair value, hedging costs not and settlement amounts paid or received on forward contracts are captured in pricing models, future administration costs associated with accounted for as elements of the carrying value of the associated ongoing operational support of products as well as adjustments to instrument, affecting the resulting yield.
reflect the cost of exiting illiquid or other significant positions.
A premium paid or received in respect of a credit derivative hedging s Collateral and Netting an asset or liability is amortised over the life of the protection The Group enters into master agreements with counterparties purchased or sold against either interest payable or interest receivable.
whenever possible and, when appropriate, obtains collateral.
Master Where a credit event occurs which triggers a recovery under the credit agreements provide that, if an event of default occurs, all outstanding derivative, then the recovery will be offset against the profit and loss transactions with the counterparty will fall due and all amounts charge on the underlying asset or liability.
outstanding will be settled on a net basis.
Foreign exchange contracts which qualify as hedges of foreign Where the amounts owed by both the Group and the counterparty currency exposures, including positions relating to investments the are determinable and in freely convertible currencies, and where the Group makes outside the UK, are retranslated at the closing rate with Group has the ability to insist on net settlement which is assured any forward premium or discount recognised over the life of the beyond doubt, and is based on a legal right under the netting contract in net interest income.
agreement that would survive the insolvency of the counterparty, transactions with positive fair values are netted against transactions Profits and losses related to qualifying hedges, including foreign with negative fair values.
exchange contracts, of firm commitments and probable anticipated transactions are deferred and recognised in income or as adjustments The Group obtains collateral in respect of customer liabilities where to carrying amounts when the hedged transactions occur.
The collateral normally takes the form of a lien over the customers assets and gives the Group a claim on Hedging transactions that are superseded or cease to be effective are these assets for both existing and future liabilities.
Any profit or loss on these transactions, together with any profit or loss arising on hedging transactions that The Group also receives collateral in the form of cash or securities in are terminated prior to the end of the life of the asset, are deferred respect of other credit instruments, such as stock borrowing contracts, and amortised into interest income or expense over the remaining life and derivative contracts in order to reduce credit risk.
Collateral of the item previously being hedged.
received in the form of securities is not recorded on the balance sheet.
Collateral received in the form of cash is recorded on the balance sheet When the underlying asset, liability position or cash flow is terminated with a corresponding liability or asset.
These items are assigned to prior to the hedging transaction, or an anticipated transaction is no deposits received from bank or other counterparties in the case of longer likely to occur, the hedging transaction is measured on the fair cash collateral received, and to loans and advances to banks or value accounting basis, as described in the section on derivatives used customers in the case of cash collateral paid away.
Any interest for trading purposes below, prior to being transferred to the trading payable or receivable arising is recorded as interest payable or interest portfolio.
The profit or loss arising from the fair value measurement income respectively.
prior to the transfer to the trading portfolio is included in the category of income or expense relating to the previously hedged transaction.
128 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 t Credit Related Instruments Changes in Accounting Policy The Group treats credit related instruments other than credit A change in accounting policy arose from the adoption in 2004 of derivatives as contingent liabilities and these are not shown on the UITF Abstract 38 UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP trusts.
UITF 38 balance sheet unless, and until, the Group is called upon to make requires Barclays PLC shares held in Employee Share Ownership Plans a payment under the instrument.
Assets arising from payments to ESOP trusts to be accounted for as a deduction in arriving at a third party where the Group is awaiting reimbursement from the shareholders funds, rather than as assets.
The balance sheet for customer, are shown on the balance sheet where reimbursement is December 2003 has been restated accordingly, and other assets and considered to be virtually certain.
Fees received for providing these shareholders funds have been reduced by 153m at 31st December instruments are taken to profit over the life of the instrument and 2004 2003: 99m, 2002: 55m.
There was no impact on the 2003 reflected in fees and commissions receivable.
or 2004 profit and loss account.
u Sale and Repurchase Agreements including Stock Borrowing There have been no other significant changes to the accounting and Lending policies as described in the 2003 Annual Report.
The Group enters into sale and repurchase agreements, including Future UK Accounting Developments stock lending arrangements repos, and purchase and resale During 2004 the Accounting Standards Board ASB issued seven agreements, including stock borrowing arrangements reverse repos.
new Financial Reporting Standards, FRS 20 to FRS 26, as part of its Under a repo sale and repurchase agreement an asset is sold or lent convergence programme between UK GAAP and International to a counterparty with a commitment to repurchase or return the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
These new UK standards, which assets at a future date at an agreed price.
A reverse repo is the same are not effective until 2005, will not impact the Group, because of the transaction from the opposite viewpoint.
The cash legs of these conversion to IFRS in 2005, as discussed below.
transactions are included within loans and advances to banks, loans and advances to customers, deposits by banks and customer accounts.
In December 2004 the ASB issued FRS 27 Life Assurance.
Following The Group aims to earn net interest income and dealing profits from feedback received in response to the exposure draft issued in July 2004, these activities, as well as funding its own holdings of securities.
The the ASB has deferred implementation of the standard until 2005. difference between sale and repurchase and purchase and resale prices However, in line with the Memorandum of Understanding entered into for such transactions, including dividends received where appropriate, by the ASB, together with the Association of British Insurers and major is charged or credited to the profit and loss account over the life of the insurers and bancassurers, Barclays is making additional voluntary relevant transactions.
disclosure in respect of its life assurance business on page 119. v Securitisation Transactions International Financial Reporting Standards Certain Group undertakings have issued debt securities or have entered By Regulation, the European Union EU has agreed that virtually all into funding arrangements with lenders in order to finance specific listed companies must use International Financial Reporting Standards loans and advances to customers.
In accordance with FRS 5, these IFRS adopted for use in the EU in the preparation of their 2005 balances are either accounted for on the basis of linked presentation consolidated accounts.
Barclays will comply with this Regulation.
The or through separate recognition of the gross assets and related funding.
objective is to improve financial reporting and enhance transparency to assist the free flow of capital throughout the EU and to improve the w Capital Instruments efficiency of the capital markets.
Debt securities in issue and similar securities are stated at the net issue proceeds adjusted for amortisation of premiums, discounts and The Group commenced a programme of work in 2002, initially expenses related to their issue where the liability is a fixed amount.
identifying the differences between IFRS and existing UK standards Where the liability fluctuates, based on, for example, the performance based on the requirements then in force.
This led to a programme of of an index then the debt security reflects the current value of the work led centrally, but involving all the businesses and functions, to liability.
change systems and processes and to provide training so as to ensure that the Group can meet the requirements fully in 2005.
In addition, Loan capital in issue is stated at the net issue proceeds adjusted for the programme is assisting the businesses and functions to consider amortisation of premiums, discounts and expenses related to their and address the wider business impact of the change in reporting in issue.
Amortisation is calculated in order to achieve a constant yield the EU.
This work is nearing completion.
Conversion work, including across the life of the instrument.
reviewing the accuracy of the opening balances, will continue x Internally Developed Software during 2005.
The Groups general policy is to write-off such expenditure as incurred except where the software is required to facilitate the use of new hardware.
Capitalised amounts are recorded as tangible fixed assets.
129 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies Although many of the uncertainties concerning whether and how the Effective interest rate IAS 39 rather than interest-related fees standards will be adopted for use in the EU have been resolved, some and costs being recognised as earned or incurred, all interest and questions remain, particularly regarding the endorsement of amendments interest-related fees and costs will be recognised at a constant rate to standards and to interpretations issued in the second half of 2004. over the expected life of the related financial instruments.
Such In addition, how IFRS financial statements will be interpreted for tax and fees and costs will also be included in net interest rather than in regulatory capital purposes remains subject to some uncertainty, with the fees and commissions.
regulatory capital requirements not expected to be finalised before April Loan impairment IAS 39 provisions will be raised where there 2005 and the tax treatment of the first time adoption adjustments not is objective evidence of impairment and determined based on the determined until later.
However, the programme is following normal expected cash flows discounted at the loans original effective project controls and change management and the Group is on track to interest rate.
Opening impairment stock is expected to be broadly meet all requirements for financial reporting in 2005. in line with UK GAAP provisions stock.
Share-based payments IFRS 2 an annual charge for share Barclays held briefings and issued a presentation in December 2004 that options and other share-based payments will be determined based set out the main impacts of the conversion to IFRS and explained the on the fair value of options granted spread over the vesting period.
policy choices that the Group had made.
Pensions IAS 19 the initial pension surpluses or deficits will be The main impacts of the standards, as described in the briefings, are: recognised in the opening balance sheet resulting in a significant reduction in shareholders funds compared with the previous UK Hedge accounting IAS 39 as permitted by the EU, the hedge GAAP approach which relied on the actuarial funding valuations.
accounting requirements of IAS 39 will be applied in full.
Both cash Dividends IAS 10 rather than being accrued as a liability when flow hedge accounting and micro fair value hedge accounting will declared, dividends will be recognised when paid.
be used resulting in all hedging derivatives being carried at fair Life fund IFRS 4 IAS 39 although IFRS permits embedded value value, equity volatility with respect to cash flow hedge accounting accounting to be used for insurance contracts, all embedded value and any hedge ineffectiveness being reflected immediately in will be reversed on adoption of IFRS, whether it relates to income.
investment products or insurance products, resulting in a reduction Classification of instruments IAS 39 UK GAAP requires the in shareholders funds.
separate classification of financial assets between banking book Software capitalisation IAS 38 internally generated computer and trading book.
Under IFRS, financial assets will be classified as: software will be recognised on balance sheet and amortised over its held to maturity: loans and receivables carried at amortised cost useful economic life.
less impairment : held for trading and fair valued through income: Guarantees IAS 39 issued guarantees will be recognised initially or available for sale and fair valued through equity.
Financial on balance sheet at fair value resulting in a small reduction in liabilities held for trading will be fair valued through income.
The fair value option is not currently available for other financial Leasing IAS 17 the income recognition profile for finance leases liabilities under EU law.
is different under IFRS with revenue typically being recognised later.
Balance sheet gross up IAS 32 39 27 the IFRS netting rules fide-recognition of liabilities IAS 39 liabilities can only be coupled with the consolidation requirements will result in removed from the balance sheet when they are legally significant grossing up of the balance sheet, including certain extinguished.
conduit vehicles and funds under management being included on balance sheet, no linked presentation for securitisations and line The restated 2004 IFRS results, excluding the impact of IAS 32 and IAS by line consolidation of insurance subsidiaries.
39 on financial instruments and IFRS 4 on insurance contracts, and the Funding instruments IAS 32 Reserve Capital Instruments opening 2005 IFRS balance sheet, including these standards, will be and other Upper Tier 2 instruments that contain no obligation issued in the second quarter of 2005.
The first results on a full IFRS to pay coupon or interest will be reclassified from debt to equity.
basis will be provided for the June 2005 half year.
Goodwill IFRS 3 rather than being subject to systematic annual amortisation, goodwill arising on consolidation will be tested for impairment each year.
Future acquisitions will give rise to more intangible assets that are subject to amortisation and potentially less goodwill.
130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting presentation Changes in Accounting Presentation The prior period presentation has, where appropriate, been restated to conform with current year classification, and the change in accounting policy discussed above.
US GAAP Significant differences exist between accounting principles generally accepted in the UK and those generally accepted in the US.
The effect of US GAAP on attributable profit and shareholders funds of Barclays PLC is set out in Note 52.
Analyses by Geographical Segments and Classes of Business The analyses by geographical segment are generally based on the location of the office recording the transaction.
Acquisitions In April 2002, Barclaycard acquired the UK Providian credit card business.
In October 2002, Barclays and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce completed the combination of their retail, corporate and offshore banking operations in the Caribbean to create FirstCaribbean International Bank FirstCaribbean.
Barclays interest in the new entity has been accounted for as an associated undertaking.
The transaction resulted in a gain for Barclays of 206m recognised in the Statement of total recognised gains and losses consequent on the disposal of a share of its Caribbean operations.
The acquisition of a share of CIBC West Indies Holding Limited generated goodwill in Barclays of 131m.
On 31st January 2003, Barclays acquired the retail stockbroking business Charles Schwab Europe.
On 19th May 2003, Barclays completed the acquisition of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited and its holding company Carnegie Holdings Limited, a retailer point of sale finance business.
On 16th July 2003, Barclays completed the acquisition of Banco Zaragozano, a Spanish private sector banking group.
On 17th December 2003, Barclays acquired Gerrard Management Services Limited Gerrard, a private client discretionary and advisory asset management business.
On 11th March 2004, Barclays purchased the remaining 40% minority share in Barclays Cairo Bank.
On 1st December 2004, Barclays completed the acquisition of Juniper Financial Corporation from Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
Disposals In 2002 the Group disposed of a share of the Groups Caribbean operation see detail under Acquisitions above.
The effect of the disposal is reflected in the Statement of recognised gains and losses on page 133.
In 2003, the Group did not make any significant disposals.
On 7th April 2004, Barclays completed the disposal of its shareholding in Edotech Limited to Astron, the business process outsourcing group.
131 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated profit and loss account Consolidated profit and loss account For the year ended 31st December 2004 2003 2002 Note m m m Interest receivable: Interest receivable and similar income arising from debt securities 2,414 2,384 2,030 Other interest receivable and similar income 11,251 10,043 10,014 13,665 12,427 12,044 Interest payable 6,823 5,823 5,839 Net interest income 6,842 6,604 6,205 Fees and commissions receivable 5,672 4,896 4,454 Less: fees and commissions payable 706 633 529 Dealing profits 1 1,493 1,054 833 Other operating income 2 644 490 364 Operating income 13,945 12,411 11,327 Administrative expenses staff costs 3 4,998 4,295 3,755 Administrative expenses other 5 2,758 2,404 2,312 Depreciation 6 295 289 303 Goodwill amortisation 6 299 265 254 Operating expenses 8,350 7,253 6,624 Operating profit before provisions 5,595 5,158 4,703 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 15 1,091 1,347 1,484 Provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments 2 1 1 Provisions 1,093 1,346 1,485 Operating profit 4,502 3,812 3,218 Loss profit from joint ventures 3 1 5 Profit loss from associated undertakings 59 28 5 Exceptional items 7 45 4 3 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 4,603 3,845 3,205 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8 1,289 1,076 955 Profit on ordinary activities after tax 3,314 2,769 2,250 Minority interests including non-equity interests 9 46 25 20 Profit for the financial year attributable to the members of Barclays PLC 3,268 2,744 2,230 Dividends 10 1,538 1,340 1,206 Profit retained for the financial year 1,730 1,404 1,024 Basic earnings per 25p ordinary share 11 51.2p 42.3p 33.7p Diluted earnings per 25p ordinary share 11 51.0p 42.1p 33.4p All results arise from continuing operations.
For each of the years reported above, there was no material difference between profit before tax and profit retained and profit on an historical cost basis.
The Board of Directors approved the accounts set out on pages 124 to 224 on 10th March 2005.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Accounts.
132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Statement of total recognised gains and losses Statement of total recognised gains and losses For the year ended 31st December 2004 2003 2002 m m m Profit for the financial year attributable to the members of Barclays PLC 3,268 2,744 2,230 Exchange rate translation differences 33 4 61 Gain loss arising from transaction with third parties 13 4 206 Joint ventures and associated undertakings 30 22 2 Other items 5 3 8 Total recognised gain relating to the period 3,223 2,711 2,385 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Accounts.
133 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2004 2003 Note m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 1,753 1,726 Items in course of collection from other banks 1,772 2,006 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 12 6,658 7,177 Loans and advances to banks banking 24,986 17,254 trading 50,145 44,670 13 75,131 61,924 Loans and advances to customers banking 189,847 167,858 trading 65,099 58,961 14 254,946 226,819 Debt securities 16 127,428 97,393 Equity shares 17 12,166 7,859 Interests in joint ventures share of gross assets 147 266 share of gross liabilities 119 208 18 28 58 Interests in associated undertakings 18 381 370 Intangible fixed assets 19 4,295 4,406 Tangible fixed assets 20 1,921 1,790 Other assets 21 22,154 19,736 Prepayments and accrued income 21 5,078 3,921 513,711 435,185 Retail life-fund assets attributable to policyholders 22 8,378 8,077 Total assets 522,089 443,262 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Accounts.
Matthew W Barrett Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Naguib Kheraj Group Finance Director 134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2004 2003 Note m m m m Liabilities Deposits by banks banking 74,211 57,641 trading 36,813 36,451 23 111,024 94,092 Customer accounts banking 171,963 155,814 trading 45,755 29,054 24 217,718 184,868 Debt securities in issue 25 67,806 49,569 Items in course of collection due to other banks 1,205 1,286 Other liabilities 26 76,565 69,497 Accruals and deferred income 26 6,582 4,983 Provisions for liabilities and charges deferred tax 27 738 646 Provisions for liabilities and charges other 28 467 369 Dividend 1,011 879 Subordinated liabilities: Undated loan capital non-convertible 29 6,149 6,310 Dated loan capital convertible to preference shares 15 17 non-convertible 6,113 6,012 30 6,128 6,029 495,393 418,528 Minority interests including non-equity interests 901 283 Called up share capital 31 1,614 1,642 Share premium account 5,524 5,417 Capital redemption reserve 309 274 Other capital reserve 617 617 Revaluation reserve 24 24 Profit and loss account 9,329 8,400 Shareholders funds equity 33 17,417 16,374 18,318 16,657 513,711 435,185 Retail life-fund liabilities to policyholders 22 8,378 8,077 Total liabilities and shareholders funds 522,089 443,262 2004 2003 Note m m Memorandum items 36 Contingent liabilities: Acceptances and endorsements 303 671 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 30,011 24,596 Other contingent liabilities 8,245 8,427 38,559 33,694 Commitments standby facilities, credit lines and other 134,051 114,847 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Accounts.
135 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated statement of changes in reserves Consolidated statement of changes in reserves For the year ended 31st December 2004 2003 2002 m m m Share premium account At beginning of year 5,417 5,277 5,149 Premium arising on shares issued 107 140 128 At end of year 5,524 5,417 5,277 Capital redemption reserve At beginning of year 274 262 232 Repurchase of ordinary shares 35 12 30 At end of year 309 274 262 Other capital reserve At beginning of year 617 617 617 At end of year 617 617 617 Revaluation reserve At beginning of year 24 24 30 Exchange rate translation differences 2 Released on transaction with third parties 2 6 At end of year 24 24 24 Profit and loss account At beginning of year 8,400 7,321 6,783 Exchange rate translation differences 58 31 61 Repurchase of ordinary shares 664 192 516 Transfer to capital redemption reserve 35 12 30 Goodwill written back on disposals 10 Shares issued to the 2003 QUEST in relation to share option schemes for staff 1 36 48 Gain loss arising from transaction with third parties 13 4 212 Other items 3 2 Increase in Treasury shares and ESOP shares 53 52 53 Profit retained 1,730 1,404 1,024 At end of year 9,329 8,400 7,321 Total reserves 15,803 14,732 13,501 The Group operates in a number of countries subject to regulations under which a local subsidiary undertaking has to maintain a minimum level of capital.
The current policy of the Group is that local capital requirements are met, as far as possible, by the retention of profit.
Certain countries operate exchange control regulations which limit the amount of dividends that can be remitted to non-resident shareholders.
It is not possible to determine the amount of profit retained and other reserves that is restricted by these regulations, but the net profit retained of overseas subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures at 31st December 2004 totalled 1,417m 2003: 925m, 2002: 1,038m.
If such overseas reserves were to be remitted, other tax liabilities, which have not been provided for in the accounts, might arise.
Goodwill amounting to 205m 2003: 205m, 2002: 205m has been charged directly against reserves in prior years in respect of acquisitions.
This amount is net of any goodwill attributable to subsidiary undertakings disposed of prior to the balance sheet date.
In 1998, the Group established a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST for the purposes of delivering shares on the exercise of options under the SAYE.
As a result of the scheme closing in 2003, there is no 2004 impact.
During 2003 the Group received from the trustees of the QUEST 88m 2002: 122m on the issue of shares in respect of the exercise of options awarded under SAYE.
Of the amount received in 2003 from the trustees, employees paid 53m 2002: 76m and the balance of 35m 2002: 46m comprised utilisation of contribution to the QUEST from Group Companies together with net interest earned thereon.
Accumulated exchange rate translation differences included in reserves are 626m debit 2003: 568m, 2002: 539m both debit.
136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2004 2003 2002 Note m m m m m m Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 39 6,089 2,290 6,747 Dividends received from joint ventures and associated undertakings 15 71 Returns on investments and servicing of finance: Interest paid on loan capital and other subordinated liabilities 652 606 607 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 19 14 23 Net cash outflow from returns on investment and servicing of finance 671 620 630 Tax paid 690 910 828 Capital expenditure and financial investment: Capital expenditure 532 310 301 Sale of property and equipment 125 97 289 Purchase of investment securities 47,520 36,886 28,128 Redemption of investment securities 18,441 17,137 10,247 Sale of investment securities 22,722 21,394 11,137 Net cash outflow inflow from capital expenditure and financial investment 6,764 1,432 6,756 Acquisitions and disposals Net cash outflow from formation of FirstCaribbean International Bank Ltd 42 160 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 41 211 985 451 Acquisition of associated undertakings and joint ventures 21 Sale of other Group undertakings 42 39 1 Sale of associated undertakings 47 16 Net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals 185 930 612 Equity dividend paid 1,406 1,249 1,146 Net cash outflow before financing 3,612 4,560 3,224 Financing: Issue of loan capital and other subordinated liabilities net of expenses 666 1,926 2,173 Redemption repurchase of loan capital and other subordinated liabilities 611 974 376 Net cash inflow from non-recourse financing 4,264 3,262 644 Repurchase of ordinary shares 699 204 546 Issue of ordinary shares net of contribution to the QUEST and ESOP 60 113 87 Issue of preference shares to minority interests 688 Issue of shares to minority interests 52 65 35 Net cash inflow from financing 4,420 4,188 2,017 Increase decrease in cash 44 808 372 1,207 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Accounts.
137 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Parent company accounts Parent company accounts 2004 2003 2002 Profit and loss account and changes in reserves for the year ended 31st December m m m Interest income 3 46 Operating expenses: Management charge from subsidiary undertaking 3 4 6 Operating profit Dividends from subsidiary undertaking 2,247 1,580 1,798 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 2,247 1,580 1,798 Tax on profit on ordinary activities Profit on ordinary activities after tax 2,247 1,580 1,798 Dividends 1,547 1,340 1,206 Profit retained by Barclays PLC 700 240 592 Profit retained by subsidiary undertakings 999 1,148 443 Profit loss retained by associated undertakings and joint ventures 31 16 11 Profit retained for the financial year 1,730 1,404 1,024 Premium arising on shares issued 107 140 128 Reduction in reserves arising from repurchase of shares 664 192 516 Shares issued to the 2003 QUEST in relation to share option schemes for staff 1 36 46 Other movements in investment in Barclays Bank PLC 101 85 100 Profit and loss account and other reserves brought forward 14,732 13,501 12,811 Profit and loss account and other reserves carried forward 15,803 14,732 13,501 2004 2003 Balance sheet as at 31st December Note m m Fixed assets Investment in Barclays Bank PLC 34 17,417 16,374 Current assets Amounts falling due within one year: Due from subsidiary undertaking 1,020 879 1,020 879 Current liabilities Amounts falling due within one year 1,020 879 Net current assets Assets less current liabilities 17,417 16,374 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 31 1,614 1,642 Share premium account 5,524 5,417 Capital redemption reserve 309 274 Revaluation reserve 9,089 8,160 Profit and loss account 881 881 Shareholders funds equity 33 17,417 16,374 All results arise from continuing operations.
Matthew W Barrett Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Naguib Kheraj Group Finance Director 138 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 1 Dealing profits 2004 2003 2002 m m m Rates related business 1,141 909 876 Credit related business 352 145 43 1,493 1,054 833 Dealing profits include the profits and losses arising both on the purchase and sale of trading instruments and from their revaluation to market value, together with the interest income earned from these instruments and the related funding cost.
Of the total dealing profit, 556m was earned on securities 2003: 498m, 2002: 325m.
Rates related businesses include fixed income, foreign exchange, commodities, emerging markets, money markets trading and equity related activities.
Credit related businesses include trading relating to loans, corporate bonds, credit derivatives and structured capital markets.
2 Other operating income 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net premium income on insurance underwriting 211 264 178 Gain on disposal of investment securities 181 73 58 Income loss from the long-term assurance business 58 33 51 Property rentals 9 15 20 Dividend income from equity shares 17 67 Other income 168 165 152 644 490 364 3 Administrative expenses staff costs 2004 2003 2002 m m m Salaries and accrued incentive payments 4,043 3,441 3,159 Social security costs 339 278 240 Pension costs see Note 4 160 180 27 Post-retirement health care 22 19 15 Other staff costs 434 377 368 4,998 4,295 3,755 The following amounts, relating to the administration staff including temporary staff whose remuneration is reflected in the valuation of the long-term assurance fund, are not included in staff costs reported above: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Salaries and accrued incentive payments 2 512 Social security costs 11 2 613 Average number of employees The average number of persons employed by the Group worldwide during the year, excluding agency staff, was 77,000 2003: 74,400, 2002: 77,200.
The average number of administration staff whose remuneration is reflected in the valuation of the long-term assurance fund, was 63 2003: 208, 2002: 370.
Post-retirement benefits Some 11,000 UK and US pensioners are provided with private health care on similar terms to current employees.
In addition, 4,000 members of staff and a further 1,000 Barclays Bank PLC pensioners who have retired since 30th June 1999 and have satisfied the qualification criteria may also become eligible for this benefit, which is being progressively withdrawn for these pensioners over the period to 30th June 2008.
Other staff costs Other staff costs comprise medical health care costs, social welfare taxes, staff transfer costs, redundancy payments and other sundry employee costs.
139 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 4 Pension costs Pensions The UK Retirement Fund UKRF comprises five sections: The 1964 Pension Scheme Most UK employees recruited before July 1997 are members of this non-contributory defined benefit scheme.
Pensions are calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary and are normally subject to a deduction from State Pension age.
The Retirement Investment Scheme RIS A defined contribution plan for most new joiners up to 1st October 2003.
Between 5.5% and 13.5% of pensionable pay is credited to members retirement accounts in addition to contributions paid by the members themselves: precise amounts are dependent upon each members age and contribution decision.
This was closed to new entrants on 1st October 2003 and the large majority of existing members of the RIS transferred to afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual with effect from 1st January 2004.
There are now no longer any active members of the RIS.
The Pension Investment Plan PIP A defined contribution plan created from 1st July 2001 to provide benefits for certain employees of Barclays Capital.
10% of pay is credited to members retirement accounts.
afterwork Combines a contributory cash balance element with a voluntary defined contribution element.
New employees since 1st October 2003 are eligible to join afterwork.
In addition, the large majority of active members of the RIS now closed were transferred to afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual after 1st January 2004.
Career Average Section Career Average The Career Average Section was established in the UKRF with effect from 1st May 2004 following the transfer of the members from the Woolwich Pension Fund.
The Career Average Section is a non-contributory career average scheme and is open to new members who are employees of either the Clacton or FirstPlus call centres.
In addition, the costs of ill-health retirements and death in service benefits are generally borne by the UKRF for each of the five sections.
Integration of the Woolwich Pension Fund WPF Under the terms of an agreement between the Bank, the Trustees of the WPF and the Trustees of the UKRF, the liabilities in respect of all pensioners and deferred pensioners, along with consenting active members of the WPF, were transferred into the UKRF on 14th February 2003.
Payments were made on 1st July 2003, with the WPF Trustees transferring assets worth 418m and Woolwich plc making a special contribution of 138m on 4th July 2003.
The bulk of the remaining WPF assets approximately 56m were transferred to the UKRF on 14th May 2004 and the final transfer was completed on 15th June 2004.
As part of this final transfer a further special contribution of 2m was paid to the UKRF.
Actuarial valuation of the UKRF Formal actuarial valuations of the UKRF are carried out triennially by a professional qualified independent actuary, with annual reviews carried out in the interim.
The most recent formal valuation was conducted as at 30th September 2004.
The market value of assets was 12,351m and the valuation revealed a shortfall of assets compared to accrued liabilities of 388m after allowing for expected future salary increases 2003: surplus of assets compared to accrued liabilities of 158m.
The impact of the change in mortality assumptions was to increase accrued liabilities by 750m.
Following the initial results of the valuation, the Bank made a contribution of 250m to the pension fund on 29th December 2004 to cover the cost of benefits accrued in 2004.
The next formal valuation will be conducted as at 30th September 2007, at which point the position will again be reviewed.
Protected Rights contributions in respect of RIS and PIP members have been paid during 2004 as required by the contracting-out regulations.
The principal financial assumptions underlying the 2004 actuarial review were: Price inflation 2.75% Return on future investments: Pension increases 2.75% 1964 Scheme 6.5% afterwork 6.14% Earnings growth 4.25% Discount rate for assessing accrued liabilities: afterwork Credit Account revaluation rate 3.55% 1964 Scheme 6.31% afterwork 6.14% The projected unit method was used for assessing the level of future contributions.
In calculating the shortfall of assets compared to accrued liabilities, assets were taken at their market value and the discount rates used for assessing the accrued liabilities were derived by taking a weighted average of the market yields on the day, weighting by reference to the UKRFs strategic asset allocation: for the equity component, allowance was made for future dividend growth.
140 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 4 Pension costs continued Pension charge for 2004 It is the Banks policy to allow for the results of a new valuation in its pension charge in the year following the valuation date.
Therefore, the 2004 figures shown below reflect the 2003 interim actuarial valuation.
The approach taken to calculating the pension charge in the accounts for the UKRF was to take assets and liabilities at market values with effect from 1st January 2004.
The principal financial assumptions used to derive the pensions charge for 2004 for the material sections of the UKRF were as follows: Price inflation 2.75% Return on future investments: Pension increases 2.75% 1964 Scheme 7.0% afterwork 6.75% Earnings growth 4.25% Discounted rate for assessing accrued liabilities: afterwork Credit Account revaluation rate 3.75% 1964 Scheme 6.6% afterwork 6.75% This resulted in an accounting surplus of assets over the accrued liabilities and pension repayments of 419m, allowing for expected future salary increases.
Spreading the accounting surplus using the straight-line method over the future remaining service lives of the active members produced a variation from regular cost of 107m including interest.
Without the benefit of the surplus, based on the 2003 interim valuation, the 1964 Pension Scheme charge would be 20.7% of the pensionable salaries on the projected unit method, the afterwork section charge would be 9.7% of pensionable salaries and the Career Average section charge would be 8.9% of pensionable salaries assessed using the assumption regarding return on new investments.
Contributions to the PIP would equal the contributions described above plus the costs of ill-health and death in service benefits.
The pensions charge in the accounts was reduced over the remaining service lives of the members to take account of the surplus, arising from the interim actuarial valuation.
2004 2003 2002 m m m Pension costs vary from regular costs as follows UKRF : Regular costs 219 221 197 Variation from regular costs including interest 107 90 266 112 131 69 Of the total regular cost in 2004 of 219m, 149m relates to the 1964 Pension Scheme, 46m to afterwork and 24m to the PIP.
The regular cost of Career Average in the UKRF was less than 1m.
Total pension costs of the Group are summarised as follows: 2004 2003 2002 m m m The UK Retirement Fund 112 131 69 Other UK pension schemes 6 17 20 Overseas pension schemes 42 32 22 160 180 27 The Bank also operates a defined benefit scheme for overseas employees of the Bank similar in design to the 1964 Pension Scheme, the Barclays Bank 1951 Pension Fund, which had a formal valuation as at 30th September 2002 and an interim valuation as at 31st January 2004.
The pension charge has been assessed using consistent assumptions to those used for the 1964 Pension Scheme and a credit of 9m 2003: 3m, 2002: 3m is included in Other UK pension schemes.
A net prepayment of 881m was reflected in the balance sheet 2003: 637m, which results from the difference between the amounts recognised as costs in the profit and loss account and the amounts funded.
Note 49 contains the disclosures required by FRS 17.
Note 52 provides additional disclosures required by US Statement of Financial Accounting Standards SFAS No.
141 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 5 Administrative expenses other 2004 2003 2002 Property and equipment expenses m m m Hire of equipment 9 812 Property rentals 197 184 180 Other property and equipment expenses 835 793 725 Other administrative expenses 1,717 1,419 1,395 2,758 2,404 2,312 Fees paid to the Groups main auditors,  LLP and its worldwide associates, were as follows: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Audit related Group statutory 7 65 Regulatory 5 35 12 910 Further assurance services 3 33 Taxation services Compliance 3 43 Advisory 2 22 5 65 Other services Transaction support 2 23 Other services 11 2 34 Total fees 22 21 22 The figures shown in the above table include amounts paid to  LLP and also  in previous years.
Fees for audit services above include all amounts paid to the Groups auditors in their capacity as such.
In addition to the fees included in the above table, amounts paid in prior periods to PwC Consulting, the management consultancy arm of  up to its sale to the IBM Corporation on 1st October 2002, amounted to nil in the year 2003: nil, 2002: 6m.
Further assurance services include internal control reviews, attest services not required by statute or regulation and consultation concerning financial accounting and reporting standards.
Taxation services include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services such as consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
Transaction support service includes due diligence related to transactions and accounting consultations and audits in connection with transactions.
Other services primarily include general process reviews and training programmes.
For US reporting purposes, Audit Fees would comprise all items described as audit related in the above table.
Similarly, Further assurance services as shown above would be reported as audit related.
142 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 6 Depreciation and amortisation 2004 2003 2002 m m m Depreciation Property depreciation 86 93 93 Equipment depreciation 209 196 210 295 289 303 Amortisation Goodwill amortisation 299 265 254 7 Exceptional items 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net profit on disposal of Group and associated undertakings 45 48 Loss on termination of Group activities 11 45 4 3 The net profit on disposal comprises profits on disposal of 45m 2003: 7m, 2002: 14m and losses on disposal of nil 2003: 3m, 2002: 6m.
Up to the date of sale, the businesses sold in 2004 contributed nil to Group profit before tax 2003: 29m, 2002: 3m.
8 Tax The charge for tax is based upon the effective UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2003: 30%, 2002: 30% and comprises: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Current tax: United Kingdom 938 726 806 Overseas 258 154 184 Total current tax 1,196 880 990 Deferred tax credit charge: United Kingdom 90 215 32 Overseas 3 21 2 Total deferred tax 87 194 34 Associated undertakings and joint ventures, including overseas tax of 9m 2003: 2m, 2002: 1m 6 2 1 Total charge 1,289 1,076 955 Analysis of deferred tax credit charge: Leasing transactions 25 657 Short-term and other timing differences 62 188 91 87 194 34 Current tax includes a credit of 20m 2003: 53m, 2002: 38m on the shareholders interest in the long-term assurance fund.
Included within current tax are prior year adjustments to UK tax of 24m 2003: 3m, 2002: 12m and overseas tax of 1m 2003: 10m, 2002: 3m.
Available overseas tax credits of 360m 2003: 197m, 2002: 221m have been applied to reduce UK tax in accordance with UK legislation.
143 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 8 Tax continued The tax charge for the year in 2004, 2003 and 2002 is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 30% 2003 and 2002: 30%.
The differences are set out below: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Tax charge at average United Kingdom corporation tax rate of 30% 2003: 30%, 2002: 30% 1,381 1,153 961 Prior year adjustments 26 7 9 Effect of change in non-allowable general provisions 2 2 2 Effect of non-allowable property write-downs and depreciation 20 13 12 Effect of Enterprise Zone Allowance 205 Net effect of differing tax rates overseas 110 95 70 Net effect of overseas losses not available for relief in the United Kingdom 24 12 40 Other non-allowable expenses 5 28 8 Gains covered by capital losses brought forward 51 44 3 Goodwill 71 74 69 Other items 104 17 63 Current tax charge 1,202 882 989 Deferred tax charge 87 194 34 Overall tax charge 1,289 1,076 955 Effective tax rate % 28.0 28.0 29.8 9 Minority interests Barclays PLC Equity minority interests in the balance sheet amounting to 211m 2003: 283m represent the interests of third parties in the equity shares of the Group subsidiary undertakings.
Non-equity minority interests in the balance sheet comprise non-cumulative, callable euro-denominated preference shares issued by Barclays Bank PLC of 688m 2003: nil and an additional 2m of profits attributable to these non-equity minority interests at the year end.
Further details of the rights of holders of preference shares are given in note c to the accounts of Barclays Bank PLC on page 234.
Total minority equity and non-equity interests as at 31st December 2004 were 901m 2003: 283m.
Minority interests in the profit and loss account include 44m 2003: 25m in relation to equity minority interests and 2m 2003: nil in relation to non-equity minority interests.
10 Dividends Barclays PLC 2004 2003 2002 Dividends on ordinary shares m m m Interim 528 457 419 Final 1,010 883 787 1,538 1,340 1,206 pence per share Interim 8.25 7.05 6.35 Final 15.75 13.45 12.00 24.00 20.50 18.35 Dividends amounting to 0.2m 2003: 0.2m, 2002: 0.2m are payable on the staff shares, which carry a fixed dividend of 20% per annum unless no dividend is paid for the year on the ordinary shares.
The total dividend of 1,538m stated in the Barclays PLC Group profit and loss account excludes 9m payable on shares held by employee benefit trusts.
The shares to which this adjustment relates are those where the full cost of the shares has not been expensed to the profit and loss account at the end of the period to which the dividend relates.
The total dividend of 1,547m is reflected in the Barclays PLC parent company profit and loss account on page 138.
144 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 11 Earnings per 25p ordinary share Barclays PLC 2004 2003 2002 m m m Basic and diluted earnings 3,268 2,744 2,230 Number of shares millions Basic weighted average number of shares 6,381 6,483 6,626 Potential ordinary shares 33 31 47 Diluted weighted average number of shares 6,414 6,514 6,673 Basic and diluted earnings are based upon the results after deducting tax, profit attributable to minority interests and dividends on staff shares.
Certain shares held by incentive plans have been excluded from the calculation of earnings per share in line with UITF 13.
12 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2004 2003 m m Treasury bills 6,438 6,600 Other eligible bills 220 577 6,658 7,177 Treasury bills and other eligible bills comprise: Banking business 1,380 3,113 Trading business 5,278 4,064 6,658 7,177 Treasury bills and other eligible bills are mainly short term in maturity with a book value not materially different from market value.
The total amount of treasury bills and other eligible bills included above, which are subject to sale and repurchase agreements, was 3,438m at 31st December 2004 2003: 1,665m.
13 Loans and advances to banks 2004 2003 m m Repayable on demand 2,710 1,893 not more than three months 51,883 46,146 over three months but not more than one year 6,109 4,996 over one year but not more than five years 10,924 5,207 over five years 3,511 3,698 75,137 61,940 Less: Provisions 6 16 75,131 61,924 145 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 13 Loans and advances to banks continued 2004 2003 m m By geographical area Banking business: United Kingdom 21,351 14,315 Other European Union 1,189 1,702 United States 753 110 Rest of the World 1,699 1,143 24,992 17,270 Less: Provisions 6 16 Total banking business 24,986 17,254 Total trading business 50,145 44,670 75,131 61,924 At 31st December 2004, there were loans and advances to banks of 54m 2003: 27m due from associated undertakings and joint ventures.
The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities and these amounted to 621m at 31st December 2004 2003: 346m.
The geographic analysis of the banking business is based on the location of the office from which the lendings are made.
The trading business, which is largely carried out in the UK, the US and Japan, is more international in nature and has not been analysed geographically.
It primarily constitutes settlement and reverse repo balances.
Provisions include specific provisions of 2m 2003: 12m and general provisions of 4m 2003: 4m.
146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 14 Loans and advances to customers 2004 2003 m m m m Repayable on demand 18,845 12,179 not more than three months 80,748 76,158 over three months but not more than one year 25,368 15,909 over one year but not more than five years 35,477 34,834 over five years 97,308 90,800 257,746 229,880 Less: Provisions 2,760 3,012 Interest in suspense 40 49 2,800 3,061 254,946 226,819 By geographical area Banking business: United Kingdom 159,094 143,809 Other European Union 20,393 19,027 United States 7,984 3,573 Rest of the World 5,176 4,510 192,647 170,919 Less: Provisions 2,760 3,012 Interest in suspense 40 49 Total banking business 189,847 167,858 Total trading business 65,099 58,961 254,946 226,819 Loans and advances to customers booked in offices in the UK banking business 2004 2003 At 31st December m m Financial institutions 11,947 7,721 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 1,947 1,766 Manufacturing 6,282 5,967 Construction 2,476 1,883 Property 7,933 6,341 Energy and water 936 1,286 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 9,751 8,886 Transport 2,275 2,579 Communications 454 476 Business and other services 14,281 12,030 Home loans 64,481 61,905 Other personal 23,313 21,905 Overseas customers 7,612 5,477 153,688 138,222 Finance lease receivables 5,406 5,587 Total 159,094 143,809 147 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 14 Loans and advances to customers continued Loans and advances to customers booked in offices outside the UK banking business 2004 2003 At 31st December m m Financial institutions 3,055 3,398 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 296 352 Manufacturing 2,140 2,082 Construction 913 651 Property 644 453 Energy and water 1,598 1,998 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 1,177 763 Transport 1,186 1,453 Communications 224 247 Business and other services 4,723 2,132 Home loans 13,192 10,450 Other personal 2,639 2,034 Overseas customers 1,361 807 33,148 26,820 Finance lease receivables 405 290 33,553 27,110 At 31st December 2004, there were loans and advances to customers of 236m 2003: 277m due from associated undertakings and joint ventures.
Mortgage incentive costs of 67m 2003: 81m, 2002: 86m have been charged to operating income.
The geographical analysis of the banking business is based on the location of the office from which the lendings are made.
Provisions include specific provisions of 2,200m 2003: 2,221m and general provisions of 560m 2003: 791m.
Banking business loans and advances to customers include finance lease receivables of 5,811m 2003: 5,877m which are stated in the balance sheet after deducting 1,254m 2003: 1,737m of unearned charges and interest.
Assets acquired in the year for letting under finance leases amounted to 318m 2003: 645m.
The following unguaranteed residual values are included in finance lease receivables: 2004 2003 Residual risk under finance leases m m Recoverable: not more than one year 4 7 over one year but not more than two years 1 2 over two years but not more than five years 6 3 over five years 7 11 18 23 Aggregate amounts received and receivable during the year under finance leases were 482m 2003: 419m, 2002: 433m, including interest income of 272m 2003: 234m, 2002: 225m.
148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 14 Loans and advances to customers continued Securitised transactions Loans and advances to customers include balances which have been securitised.
These balances are either accounted for on the basis of linked presentation or separate recognition of the gross assets and related funding.
Linked presentation Loans and advances to customers include certain securitised loans, subject to non-recourse finance arrangements, which meet the requirements for linked presentation under FRS 5 Reporting the substance of transactions.
Linked presentation has been applied for these loans and the net of the loan and finance is included within Loans and advances to customers on the balance sheet, as follows: 2004 2003 m m Gross loan receivable 4,540 81 Non-recourse finance 4,446 80 Net amount reported in Loans and advances to customers 94 1 Barclays Bank S. A. Spain Barclays securitised two static pools of residential mortgage loans originated by Barclays Bank S. A. domiciled in Spain.
Both securitisations were effected through the sale of mortgage shares to, respectively, AyT Gnova Hipotecario II, Fondo fide Titulizacin Hipotecario Genova II and AyT Gnova Hipotecario III, Fondo fide Titulizacin Hipotecario Genova III each an Issuer.
Each Issuer is a fund which is managed by Ahorro Y Titulizacin S. G. F. T. S. A. the Managing Company.
To fund the acquisition of these mortgage shares, each Issuer issued floating rate notes FRNs.
All FRNs were publicly subscribed.
The offering circulars for both issues of FRNs stated that they are the obligations of the respective Issuer only and are not guaranteed by, or the responsibility of, any other party.
Non-returnable proceeds of these two securitisation issues totalled 1.6bn at issue.
Each Issuer has entered into a swap agreement with Barclays Bank PLC, Spain branch under which each pays the floating rate of interest on the respective mortgage loans and receives interest linked to 3 month Euribor.
The proceeds generated from the loans are used in each case in priority to meet the claims of the FRN holders, after the payment of Managing Company and administration expenses and amounts payable in respect of the interest rate swap arrangements.
As at 31st December 2004, the outstanding balance on non-returnable proceeds of these two securitisation issues totalled 1,408m 996m.
There is no option to transfer additional assets to either of the Issuers.
The Managing Company has the right to liquidate the fund if the principal balance of the mortgage shares has fallen below 10% of their initial amount provided all obligations under the bonds can be satisfied in full.
In circumstances considered to be remote, the Managing Company also has the right to offer to the market to sell the pool of assets remaining at the time.
The price achieved must be the best of five bids given by five major players in the market.
Only in these circumstances and on this pricing basis, Barclays Bank S. A. has an option, but not an obligation, to re-purchase the assets then remaining.
Barclays Bank PLC Spain branch has provided two subordinated loans to each Issuer in respect of a reserve fund and initial expenses.
Barclays Bank S. A. is also remunerated for its roles as Financial Agent and Manager of the mortgage loans on behalf of the Managing Company.
The directors of each of the Issuers have confirmed that Barclays Bank S. A. is not obliged and does not intend to support any losses beyond the recourse to the mortgage loan assets underlying each issue.
Barclays is not obliged, beyond any obligations mentioned above, to support any losses that may be suffered by the FRN holders and does not intend to provide such support.
In 2004 Barclays recognised net income of 0.6m arising from these securitisations, which comprised 0.1m as financial agent and mortgage originator and 0.5m as the amount remaining in Genova II and Genova III after making all other payments in priority.
Barclays Capital, New York In 2004, Barclays securitised ten static pools of residential mortgage loans in the US, which were originated by unaffiliated mortgage companies.
All of the securitisations were effected through the sale of mortgage loans to trusts that are bankruptcy remote from Barclays.
To fund the acquisition of these mortgage loans, the trust issued FRNs.
The FRNs were underwritten by Barclays and sold to third party investors.
Barclays often retained a residual interest in the securitisation for which financial consideration was given.
The offering circulars for the issues of FRNs stated that they are the obligations of the respective trust only and are not guaranteed by, or the responsibility of, any other party.
Non-returnable proceeds of these securitisations totalled $7,780m at issue.
At 31st December 2004, the outstanding balance on non-returnable proceeds of these securitisation issues totalled $6,629m 3,450m.
There is no option to transfer additional assets to any of the trusts.
A call right exists with the right to liquidate the trust if the principal balance of the mortgage shares has fallen below 10% of their initial amount, provided all obligations under the bonds can be satisfied in full.
149 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 14 Loans and advances to customers continued Barclays is not obliged and does not intend to support any losses beyond the recourse to the mortgage loan assets underlying each issue.
Barclays is not obliged to support any losses that may be suffered by the FRN holders and does not intend to provide such support.
In 2004 Barclays recognised net income of 40m 2003: nil from the whole loan securitisations business.
Gross assets presentation In 2002, 2003 and 2004, a proportion of the Barclaycard personal credit and charge card receivables portfolio in the UK was securitised.
The noteholders in this securitisation have a proportionate interest in each balance in the portfolio and at 31st December 2004 the value of this interest was 3,318m 2003: 2,508m.
At 31st December 2004, the Groups net exposure to this securitisation, after taking into account the limited recourse financing, was 40m 2003: nil.
The total portfolio is included within gross loans and advances and the funding giving rise to the noteholders interest is included within Debt securities in issue Note 25.
Loans and advances also include 80m of securitised assets within the banking business as at 31st December 2004 which are reported under gross asset presentation.
As at 31st December 2003, the gross balances outstanding on these totalled 81m.
In addition to securitised loans and advances, the Group has securitised a portfolio of investment debt securities which are also disclosed on a gross asset presentation basis, as discussed in Note 16, and a securitised portion of life fund disclosed net in Note 22.
15 Provision balances for bad and doubtful debts 2004 2003 2002 Movements in provision balances for bad and Specific General Total Specific General Total Specific General Total doubtful debts m m m m m m m m m Balance at beginning of year 2,233 795 3,028 2,261 737 2,998 1,971 745 2,716 Acquisitions and disposals 38 17 21 27 35 62 25 14 11 Exchange and other adjustments 30 4 34 14 4 18 57 20 77 2,241 774 3,015 2,274 768 3,042 1,889 739 2,628 Charge for the year 1,301 210 1,091 1,320 27 1,347 1,486 2 1,484 Amounts written off, net of recoveries of 255m 2003: 113m, 2002: 106m 1,340 1,340 1,361 1,361 1,114 1,114 Balance at end of year 2,202 564 2,766 2,233 795 3,028 2,261 737 2,998 2004 2003 Provision balances at 31st December m m Specific provision balances United Kingdom 1,860 1,856 Other European Union 104 97 United States 128 121 Rest of the World 110 159 2,202 2,233 General provision balances 564 795 2,766 3,028 2004 2003 Non-performing advances m m Loans and advances on which interest is in suspense or is not being applied 2,607 2,890 Specific provision balance 1,563 1,527 1,044 1,363 150 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 15 Provision balances for bad and doubtful debts continued 2004 2003 m m Non-accrual loans 2,115 2,261 Accruing loans where interest is being suspended with or without provisions 492 629 Other accruing loans against which provisions have been made 842 821 Sub total 3,449 3,711 Accruing loans 90 days or more overdue, against which no provisions have been made 521 590 Reduced rate loans 15 4 Total non-performing loans 3,985 4,305 16 Debt securities 2004 2003 Gross Gross Gross Gross Balance unrealised unrealised Balance unrealised unrealised sheet gains losses Valuation sheet gains losses Valuation Investment securities: m m m m m m m m United Kingdom government 19 19 565 63 7 621 other government 11,858 200 7 12,051 16,347 475 50 16,772 other public bodies 21 21 78 1 79 mortgage-backed securities 6,563 3 29 6,537 3,074 7 4 3,077 corporate issuers 15,765 36 5 15,796 13,826 158 18 13,966 other issuers 5,531 20 4 5,547 3,691 6 2 3,695 39,757 259 45 39,971 37,581 710 81 38,210 Other debt securities: United Kingdom government 2,567 2,567 2,084 2,084 other government 37,438 37,438 28,011 28,011 other public bodies 8,177 8,177 4,513 4,513 bank and building society certificates of deposit 7,063 7,063 5,796 5,796 other issuers 32,426 32,426 19,408 19,408 127,428 259 45 127,642 97,393 710 81 98,022 2004 Balance CostProvisions sheet Movements in investment securities m m m At beginning of year 37,646 65 37,581 Exchange and other adjustments 904 904 Acquisitions and transfers 44,114 44,114 Redemption of investment securities 18,441 18,441 Sale of investment securities 22,486 18 22,468 Provisions raised 12 12 Amortisation of discounts and premiums 113 113 At end of year 39,816 59 39,757 In the above table the valuation of debt securities is based on market value.
The total value of debt securities at 31st December 2004 includes securities which are subject to sale and repurchase agreements of 58,557m 2003: 42,592m unamortised net premium on investment securities of 319m 2003: net premium 153m and holdings by the Group of debt securities of nil 2003: 4m issued by associated undertakings or joint ventures.
The value of securities due within one year at 31st December 2004 was 12,818m 2003: 20,458m.
During 1999, the Group securitised a portfolio of investment debt securities.
Linked presentation under FRS 5 is not available and therefore the portfolio with a sterling equivalent book value of 68m at 31st December 2004 2003: 192m is included within the total above.
The funding from this transaction is reported in Other liabilities Note 26 on page 159.
151 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 16 Debt securities continued The Group has a portfolio of investment debt securities, a large portion of which are subject to limited recourse financing.
Linked presentation under FRS 5 is not available and therefore the portfolio with a sterling equivalent book value of 4,782m 2003: 3,750m is included in the total above, with the financing reported in Deposits by banks and Debt securities in issue.
At 31st December 2004, the Groups net exposure to these investment debt securities, after taking into account the limited recourse financing, was 1,149m 2003: 1,203m.
Barclays PLC holds, as an investment, British government stock with a book value of 0.1m 2003: 0.1m.
Gross gains of 34m 2003: 4m, 2002: 5m and gross losses of 13m 2003: 6m, 2002: 37m were realised on the sale of investment securities using an average weighted cost approach.
Other debt securities are held at valuation.
The cost of Other debt securities is not available and would be unreasonably expensive to obtain.
Of the total debt securities disclosed above, 81,146m 2003: 63,629m were listed on a recognised exchange.
These debt securities had a market value of 81,342m 2003: 64,230m.
Maturing Maturing Maturing after one after five Maturing within but within but within after one year five years ten years ten years Maturities of investment debt securities m m m m m Government 2,271 5,660 3,609 337 11,877 Other public bodies 9 12 21 Other issuers 9,080 13,883 670 4,226 27,859 Total book value 11,360 19,555 4,279 4,563 39,757 Total valuation 11,379 19,660 4,346 4,586 39,971 17 Equity shares 2004 2003 Balance Balance sheet Valuation sheet Valuation m m m m Investment securities 1,293 1,513 954 1,134 Other securities 10,873 10,873 6,905 6,905 12,166 12,386 7,859 8,039 2004 Balance Cost Provisions sheet Movements in Investment securities m m m At beginning of year 973 19 954 Acquisitions and transfers 423 2 421 Sale of Investment securities 73 73 Exchange other 9 9 At end of year 1,314 21 1,293 In the above table the valuation of equity securities is based on market value.
Gross unrealised gains on equity shares amounted to 220m 2003: 180m.
Gross unrealised losses amounted to nil 2003: nil.
Gross gains of 200m 2003: 82m, 2002: 91m and gross losses of nil 2003: nil, 2002: 12m were realised on the sale of Investment securities.
Other securities are stated at valuation.
The cost of Other securities is not available and would be unreasonably expensive to obtain.
Of the total equity shares disclosed above, 9,675m 2003: 6,471m were listed on a recognised exchange.
These listed equity securities had a market value of 9,753m 2003: 6,486m.
152 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 18 Interests in associated undertakings and joint ventures Associates Joint ventures 2004 2003 2004 2003 Share of net assets m m m m At beginning of year 370 397 58 58 Exchange and other adjustments 25 25 New investments acquisitions 8 2 23 Disposals 6 19 50 1 Profit loss retained 34 15 3 1 At end of year 381 370 28 58 Interest in FirstCaribbean International Bank share of gross assets 2,160 2,294 share of gross liabilities 1,932 2,082 goodwill 114 120 Other associates share of net assets 38 38 goodwill 1 Total 381 370 Associated undertakings and joint ventures include 342m in respect of banks 2003: 332m.
Dividend income from associated undertakings and joint ventures amount to 15m 2003: 7m.
On an historical cost basis, the Groups interests in associated undertakings and joint ventures at 31st December 2004 amount to 409m 2003: 428m.
The principal associate of Barclays is: Country of Nature Percentage of Percentage of Date of incorporation of business equity share non-cumulative last audited capital held perpetual preference accounts share capital held FirstCaribbean International Bank Barbados Banking 43.7% 100% 31 10 2004 The interest in FirstCaribbean International Bank is owned by Barclays Bank PLC.
Of the above interests in associated undertakings and joint ventures, Gabetti Holding SpA is listed on the Milan stock exchange.
The Groups share of the total operating income of joint ventures is 32m 2003: 21m, 2002: 17m.
The Groups share of the total operating income of FirstCaribbean International Bank is 133m 2003: 93m.
Included within Barclays share of associates net assets is goodwill as follows: 2004 2003 Goodwill m m Cost At beginning of year 128 131 Additions disposals 2 3 At end of year 130 128 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 8 1 Amortisation charge for year 7 7 At end of year 15 8 Net book value 115 120 153 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 18 Interests in associated undertakings and joint ventures continued The table below provides summarised financial information of associated undertakings and joint ventures in which the Group has an interest the entities entire financial position and results of operations are presented, not Barclays share.
2004 2003 FirstCaribbean FirstCaribbean International Other Joint International Other Joint Bank associates ventures Total Bank associates ventures Total m m m m m m m m Fixed assets 82 427 102 611 80 405 382 867 Debt and equity securities 513 114 627 462 78 540 Loans to banks and customers 3,687 61 217 3,965 3,804 144 198 4,146 Other assets 72 153 53 278 267 182 60 509 Total assets 4,354 755 372 5,481 4,613 809 640 6,062 Deposits from banks and customers 3,840 250 2 4,092 4,093 247 287 4,627 Other liabilities 54 226 313 593 97 272 227 596 Shareholders funds 460 279 57 796 423 290 126 839 Total liabilities 4,354 755 372 5,481 4,613 809 640 6,062 Profit loss before tax 124 34 18 140 50 38 8 80 Taxation 10 12 7 15 5 11 7 9 Profit loss after tax 114 22 11 125 45 27 1 71 The amounts included above are based on accounts made up to 31st December 2004 with the exception of FirstCaribbean International Bank and certain undertakings included within the other associates category for which the amounts are based on accounts made up to dates not earlier than three months before the balance sheet date.
19 Intangible fixed assets 2004 2003 Goodwill cost m m At beginning of year 5,232 4,502 Additions 196 750 Disposals 1 Exchange and other adjustments 13 19 At end of year 5,415 5,232 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 826 568 Amortisation charge for year 299 265 Exchange and other adjustments 5 7 At end of year 1,120 826 Net book value 4,295 4,406 Goodwill is amortised to the profit and loss account over its useful economic life, generally estimated to be between five and 20 years.
154 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 20 Tangible fixed assets 2004 2003 Total Property Equipment Total Property Equipment Cost or valuation m m m m m m At beginning of year 4,011 2,184 1,827 3,672 1,968 1,704 Acquisitions and disposals of Group undertakings 651 234 160 74 Exchange and other adjustments 30 16 14 2 5 3 Additions at cost 531 219 312 320 86 234 Sale of assets 186 87 99 207 22 185 Fully depreciated assets written off 4 2 2 6 3 3 At end of year 4,328 2,303 2,025 4,011 2,184 1,827 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At beginning of year 2,221 884 1,337 2,046 797 1,249 Acquisitions and disposals of Group undertakings 1 1 Exchange and other adjustments 14 14 28 12 4 8 Charge for year 295 86 209 289 93 196 Sale of assets 91 4 87 121 7 114 Fully depreciated assets written off 4 2 2 6 3 3 At end of year 2,407 978 1,429 2,221 884 1,337 At valuation 1979 to 1993 610 610 618 618 At cost 3,718 1,693 2,025 3,393 1,566 1,827 4,328 2,303 2,025 4,011 2,184 1,827 Accumulated depreciation 2,407 978 1,429 2,221 884 1,337 Net book value 1,921 1,325 596 1,790 1,300 490 2004 2003 Balance sheet value of property m m Freehold 850 978 Leasehold over 50 years unexpired 45 84 Leasehold up to 50 years unexpired 286 236 Assets in the course of construction 144 2 1,325 1,300 Historical cost of property At cost 2,081 1,956 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 968 880 Net book value 1,113 1,076 The net book value of property occupied by the Group for its own use was 1,265m at 31st December 2004 2003: 1,250m.
The net book value of property at 31st December 2004 included 196m 2003: 191m in respect of land.
As at 31st December 2004, Barclays Group owns leases or holds under licence properties throughout the world arising from operational activities.
The majority of UK properties are retail branches and are widely distributed throughout England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The most significant properties are 54 Lombard Street, St Swithins House, Murray House and North and South Colonnade, Canary Wharf, all located in London, together with administrative buildings in Northampton, Knutsford, Coventry and Poole.
Outside the UK Barclays largest branch network lies in Spain.
The most significant office premises are in New York, San Francisco and Madrid.
During 2005 Barclays will occupy a new global headquarters at 1 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London.
At 31st December 2004, commitments for capital expenditure under contract amounted to 2m 2003: nil.
155 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 21 Other assets, prepayments and accrued income 2004 2003 Other assets m m Balances arising from off-balance sheet financial instruments 18,174 15,812 Shareholders interest in the long-term assurance fund 610 478 London Metal Exchange warrants and other metals trading positions 952 1,290 Sundry debtors 2,418 2,156 22,154 19,736 2004 2003 Prepayments and accrued income m m Accrued interest and commission 3,538 2,763 Prepayments 1,540 1,158 5,078 3,921 22 Retail long-term assurance funds The increase in the shareholders interest in the retail long-term assurance funds in the UK is calculated as follows: 2004 2003 m m Value of shareholders interest at beginning of year 878 867 Increase in the value for the year after tax 19 11 Value of shareholders interest at end of year 897 878 Non-recourse borrowing 287 400 Value of shareholders interest after non-recourse borrowings 610 478 Before tax, the decrease in the value for the year was 1m 2003: 42m.
In 2003, loan notes of 400m were issued.
The first 400m of emerging surplus from the retail long-term assurance funds is used to repay these notes with the remaining surplus being available to shareholders.
In 2004 113m of the loan notes were redeemed.
In addition to the increase in the shareholders interest in the retail long-term assurance funds detailed above, 9m 2003: 9m of other income from the long-term assurance business has been recognised in the year.
The principal economic assumptions used in calculating the value of the shareholders interest were as follows: 2004 2003 % % Risk discount rate net of tax 7.1 7.3 Gross United Kingdom equities returns for unit linked business net of irrecoverable tax credit 7.0 7.2 Gross United Kingdom equities dividend yield for unit linked business net of irrecoverable tax credit 2.5 2.5 Gross property and overseas equities returns for unit linked business 7.6 7.8 Gross fixed interest returns for unit linked business 4.6 4.8 Renewal expense inflation including effect of fixed costs 5.0 4.8 The retail life-fund assets attributable to policyholders comprise: 2004 2003 m m Assets: Investments 8,253 7,329 Other debtors 209 984 8,462 8,313 Current liabilities 84 236 8,378 8,077 156 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 23 Deposits by banks 2004 2003 m m Repayable on demand 9,858 8,086 not more than three months 81,214 67,866 over three months but not more than six months 5,762 2,286 over six months but not more than one year 993 2,135 over one year but not more than two years 1,942 407 over two years but not more than five years 1,738 2,944 over five years 9,517 10,368 111,024 94,092 By geographical area Banking business: United Kingdom 52,708 39,068 Other European Union 2,733 2,418 United States 4,956 6,173 Rest of the World 13,814 9,982 Total banking business 74,211 57,641 Total trading business 36,813 36,451 111,024 94,092 At 31st December 2004, there were deposits by banks of 1,634m 2003: 1,438m due to associated undertakings and joint ventures.
Deposits by banks are mostly over 50,000.
The average interest rate during 2004 for deposits by banks excluding trading business was 2.4% 2003: 2.3%, 2002: 2.9%.
24 Customer accounts 2004 2003 m m Repayable on demand 106,675 95,253 not more than three months 99,656 79,259 over three months but not more than six months 2,860 2,898 over six months but not more than one year 2,391 2,765 over one year but not more than two years 918 964 over two years but not more than five years 1,615 2,141 over five years 3,603 1,588 217,718 184,868 By geographical area Banking business: United Kingdom 155,946 140,363 Other European Union 8,395 8,510 United States 1,776 1,236 Rest of the World 5,846 5,705 Total banking business 171,963 155,814 Total trading business 45,755 29,054 217,718 184,868 157 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 24 Customer accounts continued 2004 2003 m m By type In offices in the United Kingdom: current and demand accounts interest free 12,509 13,374 current and demand accounts interest bearing 23,599 20,102 savings accounts 51,061 49,124 other time deposits retail 31,618 31,801 other time deposits wholesale 55,195 40,187 In offices outside the United Kingdom: current and demand accounts interest free 1,513 1,359 current and demand accounts interest bearing 3,361 3,534 savings accounts 864 1,561 other time deposits 37,998 23,826 217,718 184,868 At 31st December 2004, there were customer accounts of 53m 2003: 34m due to associated undertakings and joint ventures.
Deposits in offices in the UK received from non-residents amounted to 34,183m 2003: 27,593m and 2002: 19,490m.
Other time deposits in the UK and the US are mostly over 50,000.
25 Debt securities in issue 2004 2003 m m Bonds and medium-term notes repayable: within one year 1,438 2,157 over one year but not more than two years 4,797 933 over two years but not more than five years 3,723 5,106 over five years 1,313 2,587 11,271 10,783 Other debt securities in issue repayable: not more than three months 36,949 17,872 over three months but not more than one year 7,418 13,780 over one year but not more than two years 2,692 1,520 over two years but not more than five years 6,799 3,032 over five years 2,677 2,582 67,806 49,569 Debt securities in issue at 31st December 2004 included certificates of deposit of 37,213m 2003: 28,536m and commercial paper of 8,688m 2003: 4,426m.
The average interest rates during 2004 for commercial paper was 1.8% 2003: 1.0%, 2002: 2.0% and for negotiable certificates of deposits was 2.2% 2003: 2.2%, 2002: 3.3%.
At 31st December 2004, there were 530m of debt securities in issue due to associated undertakings and joint ventures 2003: 448m.
Debt securities in issue at 31st December 2004 include 3,278m 2003: 2,508m raised from the securitisation of credit and charge card receivables see Note 14.
158 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 26 Other liabilities, accruals and deferred income 2004 2003 Other liabilities m m Obligations under finance leases payable: not more than one year 117 22 over one year but not more than two years 100 24 over two years but not more than five years 159 61 over five years 30 53 406 160 Less: future finance charges 53 50 353 110 Balances arising from off-balance sheet financial instruments 18,009 14,797 Short positions in securities 53,714 49,934 Current tax 584 497 Sundry creditors 3,905 4,159 76,565 69,497 Short positions in securities comprise: Treasury bills and other eligible bills 1,782 2,547 Debt securities government 38,358 37,526 Debt securities other public sector 3,186 1,035 Debt securities other 5,392 4,256 Equity shares 4,996 4,570 53,714 49,934 Of the total short positions disclosed above, 34,993m 2003: 37,028m were listed on a recognised exchange.
Other liabilities as at 31st December 2004 include 68m 2003: 192m raised from the securitisation of investment debt securities see Note 16.
2004 2003 Accruals and deferred income m m Accrued interest and commission 2,860 2,193 Other accruals and deferred income 3,722 2,790 6,582 4,983 27 Deferred tax The movements on deferred tax during the year were: 2004 2003 m m At beginning of year 646 461 Exchange and other adjustments 5 9 Charge to profit and loss account 87 194 At end of year 738 646 Deferred tax at 31st December: Leasing transactions 759 739 Other timing differences 21 93 738 646 No tax 2003: nil has been calculated on capital gains that might arise on the disposal of Barclays Bank PLC at the amounts at which it is stated.
The Directors are of the opinion that the likelihood of any such tax liability arising in the foreseeable future is remote.
Tax would become payable only if the investment and consequently virtually all of the Groups activities were disposed of.
The amount of tax payable would be dependent upon the level of capital losses available within the Barclays Group to reduce any capital gains that may arise.
159 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 27 Deferred tax continued No tax has been calculated on capital gains 2003: nil that might arise on the disposal of properties at their balance sheet amounts.
The aggregate disposal of the property portfolio would not be expected to give rise to a significant gain or loss.
Tax would become payable only if property were sold without it being possible to claim rollover relief.
At present, it is not envisaged that any tax will become payable in the foreseeable future.
The fair values of certain derivatives and financial instruments are disclosed in Note 37.
For trading balances, where fair values are recognised in the financial statements and mark to market movements included in the profit and loss account, the gains and losses are subject to current tax and no deferred tax arises.
In the case of derivatives used for asset and liability management purposes, tax arises when the gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account at the same time as the hedged item.
Where fair values are disclosed but not recognised, tax would arise if the assets were sold at their fair value.
Tax of 759m 2003: 900m would become payable on the sale of the non-trading financial assets for which a valuation has been given.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on tax losses to the extent that they are not regarded as recoverable in the foreseeable future.
The unrecognised asset of 5m 2003: 4m would be regarded as recoverable to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it was more likely than not that there would be suitable taxable profits from which the tax losses could be deducted.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings and joint ventures.
Such earnings form part of the balance sheet value and are therefore included in the deferred tax of subsidiaries.
28 Other provisions for liabilities and charges Employee pension and Redundancy post-retirement Customer and benefit Onerous loyalty restructSundry contributions contractsprovisions uringprovisions Total m m m m m m At 1st January 2004 65 23 32 71 178 369 Acquisitions and disposals of Group undertakings 3 3 Exchange 5 4 3 6 10 Additions 135 25 12 202 187 561 Amounts used 28 11 32 161 98 330 Unused amounts reversed 60 3 12 46 121 Amortisation of discount 1 1 104 39 12 97 215 467 At 1st January 2003 180 26 55 113 112 486 Acquisitions and disposals of Group undertakings 8 1 9 Exchange 1 4 4 7 Additions 30 7 11 235 121 404 Amounts used 50 10 34 245 35 374 Unused amounts reversed 102 5 36 21 164 Amortisation of discount 1 1 65 23 32 71 178 369 Customer loyalty provisions are made with respect to anticipated future claims on redemption under the Groups customer loyalty bonus schemes.
Sundry provisions are made with respect to commission clawbacks, warranties, cost of customer redress and litigation claims.
The Group has a restructuring programme, largely focused on activities within the UK, which involves the reshaping of the Groups operations through the centralisation of core processes, application of new technologies, and reduction of workforce.
It is anticipated that the majority of remaining liabilities and charges will be utilised in 2005.
160 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 29 Undated loan capital Undated loan capital, issued by the Bank for the development and expansion of the Groups business and to strengthen its capital base comprised: 2004 2003 Notes m m The Bank 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes a, n 400 400 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes $1,000m a, n 520 560 8.55% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments $1,250m b, o 646 694 7.375% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments $750m b, p 386 415 7.50% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments 850m c, q 595 596 Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes $121m d, r 63 68 Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 1 $358m d, s 186 201 Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 2 $442m d, s 230 248 Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3 d, s 145 145 9.875% Undated Subordinated Notes e, t 300 300 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds ex-Woolwich plc f, u 180 181 9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bonds g, v 100 100 7.125% Undated Subordinated Notes h, w 525 525 6.875% Undated Subordinated Notes i, x 650 650 6.375% Undated Subordinated Notes j, y 465 465 6.125% Undated Subordinated Notes k, z 550 550 6.5% Undated Subordinated Notes FFr1,000m l, aa 108 107 5.03% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan Yen 8,000m m, ab 40 42 5% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan Yen 12,000m m, ab 60 63 Total undated loan capital 6,149 6,310 Security and subordination None of the undated loan capital of the Bank is secured or convertible.
The Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes the Junior Notes rank behind the claims against the Bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors and holders of dated loan capital.
All other issues of the Banks undated loan capital rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of Junior Notes, except for the 6% and 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes the TONs and the 8.55%, 7.375% and 7.5% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments the RCIs such issues, excluding the TONs and the RCIs, being the Undated Notes and Loans.
The TONs and the RCIs rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Undated Notes and Loans.
In accordance with the Barclays Group Reorganisation Act 2002, the 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds of Woolwich plc were transferred to the Bank by operation of law on 1st December 2003 and accordingly the Bank has become the obligor for this issue from that date.
Interest Notes a These TONs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2032.
After that date, in the event that the TONs are not redeemed, the TONs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
b These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2011.
After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
c These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2010.
After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on European interbank rates.
d These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
e These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2008.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
f These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2021.
g The interest rate on these Notes is fixed for the life of this issue.
h These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2020.
161 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 29 Undated loan capital continued i These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015.
j These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2017.
k These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2027.
l These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2009.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on European interbank rates.
m These Loans bear a fixed rate of interest until 2028 based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Yen interest rate payable which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
After that date, in the event that the Loans are not redeemed, the Loans will bear Yen interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its Undated Notes and Loans excluding the 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC or, in certain cases, any class of preference shares of the Bank.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the immediately preceding 12 months interest period, a dividend has not been paid on any class of its share capital.
Interest not so paid becomes payable in each case if such a dividend is subsequently paid or in certain other circumstances.
No payment of principal or any interest on any such undated loan capital may be made unless the Bank satisfies a specified solvency test.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the RCIs for any period of time.
Whilst such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the TONs if it determines that it is, or such payment would result in it being, in noncompliance with capital adequacy requirements and policies of the Financial Services Authority.
Any such deferred payment of interest will only be payable on a redemption of the TONs.
Until such time as the Bank next makes a payment of interest on the TONs, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may a declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of their respective ordinary shares or preference shares, or make payments of interest in respect of the RCIs and b certain restrictions on the redemption, purchase or reduction of their respective share capital and certain other securities also apply.
Interest payable on undated loan capital amounted to 419m 2003: 451m, 2002: 407m.
Repayment and conversion Notes n These TONs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June 2032. o These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June 2011. p These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2011. q These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2010. r These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole or in part on any interest payment date.
s These Notes are repayable in each case, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date.
t These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2008, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
u These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2021, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
v These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole at any time.
w These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2020, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
x These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2015, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
y These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2017, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
z These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2027, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
aa These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2009, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ab These Loans are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2028, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
In addition, each issue of undated loan capital is repayable, at the option of the Bank in whole for certain tax reasons, either at any time, or on an interest payment date.
There are no events of default except non-payment of principal or mandatory interest.
Any repayments require the prior approval of the Financial Services Authority.
All issues of undated loan capital have been made in the eurocurrency market and or under Rule 144A, and no issues have been registered under the US Securities Act of 1933.
162 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 30 Dated loan capital Dated loan capital, issued by the Bank for the development and expansion of the Groups business and to strengthen its capital base, and by Barclays Spain, Barclays Bank of Botswana Ltd BBB and Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Barclays Zambia to enhance their respective capital bases, comprise: 2004 2003 Notes m m Non-convertible The Bank Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2005 115m b, l 81 81 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2005 300m b, l 212 212 Floating Rate Unsecured Capital Loan Stock 2006 b, m, n 3 3 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2009 2003: $60m 41 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2009 2003: $550m 360 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2009 2003: $115m 79 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 $400m a 208 225 Subordinated Fixed to CMS Linked Notes 2009 31m b 22 22 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2009 2003: 150m 106 Variable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2009 2003: Yen 5,000m 26 12% Unsecured Capital Loan Stock 2010 a 25 25 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2011 $100m b, m 52 56 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2011 $125m b, m 65 70 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2011 $400m b, m 208 225 5.75% Subordinated Notes 2011 1,000m a 708 707 5.25% Subordinated Notes 2011 250m ex-Woolwich plc a 169 167 Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2011 Yen 5,000m d, m 25 26 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2012 b, m 300 299 Callable Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2012 b, m 44 44 Step-up Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Bonds 2012 ex-Woolwich plc b, m 148 148 Callable Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2012 $150m b, m 78 84 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2012 $100m b, m 52 56 Capped Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2012 $100m b, m 52 56 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2013 $1,000m b, k, m 551 582 5.015% Subordinated Notes 2013 $150m a 78 84 4.875% Subordinated Notes 2013 750m a 531 531 5.5% Subordinated Notes 2013 DM500m e, m 181 181 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2013 Yen 5,500m b, j, m 30 30 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2013 AU$150m c, m 61 63 5.93% Subordinated Notes 2013 AU$100m f, m 40 42 10.125% Subordinated Notes 2017 ex-Woolwich plc g, m 117 119 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2018 40m b 28 28 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 50m b 36 35 Callable Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 1,000m h 708 9.5% Subordinated Bonds 2021 ex-Woolwich plc a 254 258 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2021 100m b 71 71 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2022 50m b 36 35 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2023 50m b 36 35 5.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2026 a 600 600 5.4% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Loan 2027 Yen 15,000m i 75 79 6.33% Subordinated Notes 2032 a 50 50 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2040 100m b 71 71 Barclays Bank SA, Spain Barclays Spain Subordinated Floating Rate Capital Notes 2007 60m b 42 Subordinated Floating Rate Capital Notes 2009 42m b 30 Subordinated Floating Rate Capital Notes 2011 50m b 35 6,113 6,012 Convertible Barclays Bank of Botswana Ltd BBB Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2014 BWP100m m, o 12 13 Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2015 ZMK30bn m, p 3 4 Total dated loan capital 6,128 6,029 Repayable not more than one year 296 3 over one year but not more than two years 293 over two years but not more than five years 302 over five years 5,530 5,733 6,128 6,029 163 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 30 Dated loan capital continued None of the Groups dated loan capital is secured.
The debt obligations of the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBB and Barclays Zambia rank ahead of the interests of holders of their equity.
Dated loan capital of the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBB and Barclays Zambia has been issued on the basis that the claims thereunder are subordinated to the respective claims of their depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors.
In accordance with the Barclays Group Reorganisation Act 2002, the 5.25% Subordinated Notes 2011, the Step-up Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Bonds 2012, the 10.125% Subordinated Notes 2017 and the 9.5% Subordinated Bonds 2021 of Woolwich plc were transferred to the Bank by operation of law on 1st December 2003 and accordingly the Bank has become the obligor for these issues from that date.
The loan capital of Barclays Spain was reclassified from Other liabilities to Dated loan capital during 2004.
Interest Notes a The interest rates on these Notes are fixed for the life of those issues.
b These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London or European interbank rates.
c These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Sydney bill of exchange rates.
d These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2006.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
f These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2008.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Sydney Bill of exchange rates.
g These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012.
h These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2014.
i This Loan bears a fixed rate of interest based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Yen interest rate payable which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
j The Bank has swapped the proceeds of these Notes for euro under a swap, the duration of which matches the term of the Notes.
The payment obligations of the Bank under this swap are subordinated so that the claims against the Bank in respect of this swap rank pari passu with claims against the Bank in respect of its dated loan capital.
The sterling value of these Notes in the figures set out above takes into account this subordinated swap.
k The Bank has swapped US$250m of the proceeds of these Notes for euro under a swap, the duration of which matches the term of the Notes.
l The Bank may defer the payment of interest and principal on these Notes in the event that the Financial Services Authority has required or requested the Bank to make such a deferral.
m Repayable at the option of the issuer, prior to maturity, on conditions governing the respective debt obligations, some in whole or in part, and some only in whole.
n Holders of these Notes have certain rights to call for the redemption of their holdings.
o These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Botswana Certificate Rate.
All of these Notes will be compulsorily converted to Preference Shares of BBB, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion, should BBB experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
p These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Zambia Treasury Bill rate.
All of these Notes will be compulsorily converted to Preference Shares of Barclays Zambia, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion, should Barclays Zambia experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
Interest payable on loan capital with a final maturity within five years amounted to 23.8m 2003: 10.7m, 2002: 28m.
The 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 the 7.4% Notes issued by the Bank have been registered under the US Securities Act of 1933.
All other issues of dated loan capital by the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBB and Barclays Zambia, which were made in non-US markets, have not been so registered.
With respect to the 7.4% Notes, the Bank is not obliged to make i a payment of interest on any interest payment date unless a dividend is paid on any class of share capital and ii a payment of principal until six months after the respective maturity date with respect to such Notes.
164 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 30 Dated loan capital continued Repayment terms Unless otherwise indicated, the Groups dated loan capital outstanding at 31st December 2004 is redeemable only on maturity, subject in particular cases, to provisions allowing an early redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law or, in the case of BBB and Barclays Zambia, to certain changes in legislation or regulations.
Any repayments prior to maturity require in the case of the Bank, the prior approval of the Financial Services Authority, in the case of BBB, the prior approval of the Bank of Botswana and in the case of Barclays Zambia, the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia.
There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity.
31 Called up share capital The authorised share capital of Barclays PLC is 2,500m 2003: 2,500m, comprising 9,996 million 2003: 9,996 million ordinary shares of 25p each and 1million 2003: 1million staff shares of 1 each.
Called up share capital comprises 6,454 million 2003: 6,563 million ordinary shares of 25p each and 1 million 2003: 1 million staff shares of 1 each.
2004 2003 m m Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid Ordinary shares: At beginning of year 1,641 1,644 Issued to staff under the SAYE Share Option Scheme 6 7 Issued under Incentive Share Option Plan 1 1 Issued under Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan 1 Repurchase of shares 35 12 At end of year 1,613 1,641 Staff shares 1 1 1,614 1,642 Share repurchase The following table shows by month, the number of shares purchased and the average price paid per share.
No share repurchases were made in any month not listed below.
Period Total number of Average price Total number of Maximum number shares purchased paid per share shares purchased or approximate value as part of publicly of shares that may yet announced plans be purchased under or programmes the plans or programmes 1st February 2004 to 29th February 2004 8,381,800 4.96 n a 1st March 2004 to 31st March 2004 42,341,364 4.85 n a 1st April 2004 to 30th April 2004 39,085,413 4.96 n a 1st May 2004 to 31st May 2004 31,884,909 5.02 n a 1st August 2004 to 31st August 2004 14,170,000 5.04 n a 1st September 2004 to 30th September 2004 4,260,000 5.33 n a Total 140,123,486 4.96 At the 2003 AGM on 24th April, Barclays PLC was authorised to repurchase 985,524,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p.
The authorisation was effective until the AGM in 2004.
35,220,413 of the 39,085,413 shares repurchased in April 2004 were repurchased under the 2003 AGM authorisation.
At the 2004 AGM on 29th April, Barclays PLC was authorised to repurchase 984,600,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p.
The authorisation is effective until the AGM in 2005.
3,865,000 of the 39,085,413 shares repurchased in April 2004 were repurchased under the 2004 AGM authorisation.
As at 28th February 2005, there were 930,420,091 shares that may yet be purchased under the 2004 AGM authorisation.
All shares purchased during the period were open market transactions.
165 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 32 Shares under option The Group has three current schemes that give employees rights to subscribe for shares in Group companies.
A summary of the key terms of the Incentive Share Option Plan ISOP and Sharesave SAYE is provided on pages 28 and 29.
The other current scheme is the BGI Equity Ownership Plan EOP which provides for options to be granted to certain management personnel for shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
Under the terms of the Plan, options are normally exercisable upon vesting.
One-third of the options will generally vest at each anniversary of the grant date over three years.
If unexercised, the options will lapse ten years after the grant.
At 31st December 2004, 7.6 million 2003: 13.5 million options were outstanding under the terms of the BGI EOP which would represent a 7.8% interest if exercised, enabling certain management personnel to subscribe for shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited between 2005 and 2014 at prices between 6.11 and 20.11.
One year following the exercise of the option, the shareholder has the right tooffer to sell the shares to Barclays Bank PLC.
Barclays Bank PLC may accept the offer and purchase the shares at the most recent agreed valuation.
The most recently agreed valuation at 30th June 2004 was 32.10 2003: 15.16.
If all the current options were exercised, 96.5m 2003: 128.7m would be subscribed.
At the most recently agreed valuation these shares would be valued at 243.1m, resulting in a gain of 146.7m to the option holders if these shares were sold at this price.
Since the scheme was introduced, options over 12.7 million 2003: 4.9 million shares have been exercised, of which 10 million are still held by employees and represent a minority interest in the Group.
At 31st December 2004, 97.3 million 2003: 106 million options were outstanding under the terms of the SAYE Share Option Scheme, 0.2 million 2003: 0.6 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Woolwich SAYE Scheme, 4.5 million 2003: 5.9 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme, 2.3 million 2003: 4.4 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Woolwich ESOP and 137.9 million 2003: 98.9 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Incentive Share Option Plan, enabling certain Directors and members of staff to subscribe for ordinary shares between 2005 and 2014 at prices ranging from 176p to 562p.
In addition to the above, the independent trustee of the Barclays Group ESAS Employees Benefit Trust ESAS Trust, established by Barclays Bank PLC in 1996, operates the Executive Share Award Scheme ESAS.
ESAS is a deferred share bonus plan for employees of the Group.
The key terms of ESAS are described on page 28.
The independent trustees of the ESAS Trust make awards of Barclays shares and grant options over Barclays shares to beneficiaries of the ESAS Trust.
Beneficiaries of the ESAS Trust include employees and former employees of the Barclays Group.
The independent trustee of the Barclays Group PSP & ESOS Employees Benefit Trust PSP Trust, established by Barclays Bank PLC in 1996, operates the Performance Share Plan PSP and may satisfy awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
No awards have been made under this trust since 1999.
All awards are in the form of options over Barclays shares.
The total number of Barclays shares held in Group employee benefit trusts at 31st December 2004 was 115 million 2003: 82.8 million.
Dividend rights have been waived on 1.6 million 2003:1.6 million of these shares.
The total number of shares includes those represented by the reduction to shareholders funds of 153m 2003: 99m where the cost has not yet been fully expensed to the profit and loss account.
The total market value of the shares held in trust based on the year-end share price of 5.86 2003: 4.98 was 674m 2003: 412m.
As at 31st December 2004, options over 10.1 million 2003: 7.3m of the total shares held in the trusts were exercisable.
166 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 33 Shareholders funds 2004 2003 Associated Associated undertakings undertakings and joint and joint Consolidated Barclays PLC ventures Consolidated Barclays PLC ventures m m m m m m At beginning of year 16,374 16,374 14 15,146 15,146 8 Proceeds of shares issued net of expenses 114 114 149 149 Exchange rate translation differences 58 25 29 25 Repurchase of ordinary shares 699 699 204 204 Revaluation of investment in subsidiary undertaking 929 1,079 Shares issued to the 2003 QUEST in relation to share option schemes for staff 1 1 36 36 Gain loss arising from transactions with third parties 13 4 ESOP Trust Shares allocated to staff 3 Other items 5 3 Profit retained 1,730 700 31 1,404 240 16 Increase in ESOP shares 54 44 Decrease increase in Treasury shares 1 8 At end of year 17,417 17,417 13 16,374 16,374 14 Opening shareholders funds have been restated due to the adoption of UITF Abstract 38, Accounting for ESOP trusts.
Further information can be found in the changes in accounting policy on page 129.
The revaluation reserve of Barclays PLC arises from the revaluation of the investment in Barclays Bank PLC.
The decrease in consolidated shareholders funds of 58m 2003: decrease 29m arising from exchange rate translation differences is net of a related tax credit of 2m 2003: credit 2m.
Treasury shares are carried at 11m 2003: 12m.
The number of treasury shares in issue as at 31st December 2004 is 2 million 2003: 2 million.
34 Investment in Barclays Bank PLC The investment in Barclays Bank PLC is stated in the balance sheet at Barclays PLCs share of the book value of the net assets of Barclays Bank PLC including unamortised goodwill.
The net increase of 1,043m during the year comprised the cost of additional shares of 114m and an increase of 929m in other net assets of Barclays Bank PLC.
The cost of the investment was 7,879m 2003: 7,765m.
Details of subsidiary undertakings, held through Barclays Bank PLC, are shown in Note 50.
167 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 35 Analysis of assets and liabilities Assets and liabilities denominated in sterling and foreign currencies 2004 2003 m m Denominated in sterling 220,902 190,948 Denominated in currencies other than sterling 301,187 252,314 Total assets 522,089 443,262 Denominated in sterling 205,845 193,561 Denominated in currencies other than sterling 316,244 249,701 Total liabilities 522,089 443,262 Assets pledged to secure liabilities Barclays has pledged assets as security for liabilities and potential liabilities included under the following headings: 2004 2003 m m Amount of liability secured Deposits by banks 32,392 25,895 Customer accounts 40,633 28,732 Debt securities in issue 3,016 3,221 Other liabilities 1,414 1,243 Total 77,455 59,091 The amount of assets pledged to secure these liabilities and potential liabilities is included under the following headings: 2004 2003 m m Amount of assets pledged Treasury bills and other eligible securities 5,807 3,394 Loans and advances to customers 4,334 3,594 Debt securities 70,975 54,336 Other 857 826 Total 81,973 62,150 At 31st December 2004 guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security against contingent liabilities amounted to 30,011m 2003: 24,596m.
168 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 36 Contingent liabilities and commitments In common with other banks, the Group conducts business involving acceptances, guarantees, performance bonds and indemnities.
The majority of these facilities are offset by corresponding obligations of third parties.
In addition, there are other off balance sheet financial instruments, including swaps, futures, forwards and option contracts or combinations thereof all commonly known as derivatives, the nominal amounts of which are not reflected in the consolidated balance sheet.
Following internationally accepted banking supervisory practice for the calculation of the credit risk associated with such non-derivative off balance sheet items, for the purpose of this Note the contract or underlying principal amounts are either recognised at face value or converted to credit risk equivalents by applying specified conversion factors.
Nature of instruments For a description of the nature of derivative financial instruments, see page 71.
An acceptance is an undertaking by a bank to pay a bill of exchange drawn on a customer.
The Group expects most acceptances to be presented, but reimbursement by the customer is normally immediate.
Endorsements are residual liabilities of the Group in respect of bills of exchange which have been paid and subsequently rediscounted.
Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security are generally written by a bank to support the performance of a customer to third parties.
As the Group will only be required to meet these obligations in the event of the customers default, the cash requirements of these instruments are expected to be considerably below their nominal amounts.
Other contingent liabilities include transaction related customs and performance bonds and are, generally, short-term commitments to third parties which are not directly dependent on the customers creditworthiness.
Commitments to lend are agreements to lend to a customer in the future, subject to certain conditions.
Such commitments are either made for a fixed period, or have no specific maturity but are cancellable by the lender subject to notice requirements.
Documentary credits commit the Group to make payments to third parties on production of documents, which are usually reimbursed immediately by customers.
The following table summarises the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments with off balance sheet risk as at 31st December 2004: 2004 2003 Contract or Contract or underlying underlying principal principal amount amount m m Contingent liabilities Acceptances and endorsements 303 671 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 30,011 24,596 Other contingent liabilities 8,245 8,427 Off balance sheet credit risk 38,559 33,694 Commitments Other commitments: Arising out of sale and option to resell transactions 1 Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 522 359 Forward asset purchases and forward forward deposits placed 55 88 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: Over one year 36,083 27,160 In one year or less 97,390 87,240 Off balance sheet credit risk 134,051 114,847 Current year credit card commitments to lend have been calculated on a contractual basis rather than a modelled basis.
Had this method been applied in 2003, reported commitments would have been increased by 5,899m to 120,746m.
As an active participant in international banking markets, the Group has a significant concentration of off balance sheet items with financial institutions, as shown in Note 55.
For a further description of the nature and management of credit risks and market risks, see pages 44 to 85 of the Risk Management section.
169 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 36 Contingent liabilities and commitments continued UK obligations to purchase goods and services The table below gives details of the Groups obligations to purchase goods and services at 31st December 2004: 2004 2003 m m Obligations payable less than one year 296 273 over one year but not more than three years 493 377 over three years but not more than five years 193 123 over five years 103 73 1,085 846 The obligations mainly relate to contracts for the provision of services such as office supplies, telecommunications, maintenance and sponsorship agreements.
Future rental commitments under operating leases At 31st December 2004, the Group held various leases on land and buildings, many for extended periods, and other leases for equipment.
2004 2003 Property Equipment Property Equipment m m m m Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: not more than one year 22 2 91 over one year but not more than five years 33 4 45 1 over five years 182 142 237 6 196 2 The aggregate rental payments outstanding at 31st December 2004 fall due as follows: Year ended 31st December Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009thereafter m m m m m m Aggregate rental payments 243 216 200 190 176 1,657 The aggregate rental payments above include the lease commitment for the new headquarters at 1 Churchill Place.
The rentals for leasehold land, buildings and equipment, included in operating expenses for the year ended 31st December 2004, amounted to 206m 2003: 192m, 2002: 192m.
170 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 37 Derivatives and other financial instruments The Groups objectives and policies in managing the risks that arise in connection with the use of financial instruments are set out on pages 44 to 48 under the headings Risk Management and Control Overview: Market Risk Management and Treasury Asset and Liability Management.
Short-term debtors and creditors are included in the following interest rate repricing and non-trading currency risk tables.
All other disclosures in Note 37 exclude these short-term balances.
Interest rate sensitivity gap analysis The table below summarises the repricing profiles of the Groups non-trading book as at 31st December 2004.
Items are allocated to time bands by reference to the earlier of the next contractual interest rate repricing date and the maturity date.
These are not relevant in considering the interest rate risk of the Group.
Trading balances for the purposes of this table are those, within Barclays Capital, where the risk is managed by DVaR see page 173.
171 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 37 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Interest rate repricing as at 31st December 2003 Over three Over Over Over Over months but six months one year three years five years Not more not more but not but not but not but not Over Nonthan three than six more than more than more than more than ten interest Trading months months one year three years five years ten years years bearing balances Total m m m m m m m m m m Assets: Treasury bills and other eligible bills 592 28 33 35 6,489 7,177 Loans and advances to banks 2,632 2 53 48 9 212 58,968 61,924 Loans and advances to customers 104,397 4,679 7,155 11,739 6,007 2,388 1,102 882 88,470 226,819 Debt securities and equity shares 721 66 420 898 580 259 250 272 101,786 105,252 Other assets 338 12,850 20,825 34,013 Total assets 108,680 4,775 7,661 12,720 6,596 2,647 1,352 14,216 276,538 435,185 Liabilities: Deposits by banks 4,247 275 105 202 29 235 357 88,642 94,092 Customer accounts 118,981 1,369 1,749 1,407 103 13 240 14,056 46,950 184,868 Debt securities in issue 7,101 55 1,345 206 122 40,740 49,569 Other liabilities 9,576 68,084 77,660 Loan capital and other subordinated liabilities 3,060 499 22 22 536 3,649 4,551 12,339 Minority and other interests and shareholders funds 16,657 16,657 Internal funding of trading business 22,649 2,590 530 1,080 666 269 8,368 32,122 Total liabilities 110,740 392 1,346 4,056 1,540 3,897 5,182 32,278 276,538 435,185 Off-balance sheet items 16,637 10,301 464 11,341 8,448 4,114 3,499 Interest rate repricing gap 18,697 5,134 5,851 20,005 13,504 2,864 331 18,062 Cumulative gap 18,697 23,831 17,980 2,025 15,529 18,393 18,062 Non-trading currency risk Non-trading currency risk exposure arises principally from the Groups investments in overseas branches and subsidiary and associated undertakings, principally in the United States, Japan and Europe.
The Groups structural currency exposures at 31st December 2004 were as follows: Net investments in Borrowings which hedge Remaining structural overseas operations the net investments currency exposures 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Functional currency of the operation involved m m m m m m United States Dollar 2,050 1,448 2,038 1,166 12 282 Yen 2,594 3,063 2,589 2,984 5 79 Euro 3,148 4,333 3,102 3,520 46 813 Other non-Sterling 753 700 332 255 421 445 Total 8,545 9,544 8,061 7,925 484 1,619 In accordance with Group policy, as at 31st December 2004 and 31st December 2003, there were no material net currency exposures in the nontrading book relating to transactional or non-structural positions that would give rise to net currency gains and losses recognised in the profit and loss account.
Instruments used in hedging non-trading exposures are described on page 71.
172 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 37 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Daily Value at Risk The Daily Value at Risk DVaR methodology of estimating potential losses arising from the Groups exposure to market risk is explained on pages 61 to 64.
The models used in estimating potential losses are based on past movements and may not be indicative of future market conditions.
The following table shows an analysis of DVaR for the market risk exposures in Barclays Capital as an average for the year and the high and low during the year.
Year to 31st December 2004 Year to 31st December 2003 a a a a Average High Low Average High Low m m m m m m Interest rate risk 25.0 53.6 15.1 21.0 34.1 13.6 Credit spread risk 22.6 32.9 16.0 16.2 29.2 8.9 Foreign exchange risk 2.4 7.4 0.9 2.3 5.0 1.0 Equities risk 4.2 7.9 2.2 2.6 4.9 1.5 Commodities risk 6.0 14.4 2.2 4.4 7.0 2.2 Diversification effect 25.9 n a n a 20.6 n a n a b Total DVaR 34.3 46.8 24.0 25.9 38.6 17.6 Notes a The high and low DVaR figures reported for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low DVaR reported as a whole.
Consequently a diversification effect number for the high and low DVaR figures would not be meaningful and it is therefore omitted from the above table.
The hedging tables below summarise, firstly, the unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31st December 2004 and 31st December 2003 and the movements therein during the year, and, secondly, the deferred gains and losses on hedges carried forward in the balance sheet at 31st December 2004 and 31st December 2003, pending their recognition in the profit and loss account.
Gains Losses Total net gains losses 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m m m Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges At 1st January 2,752 3,290 2,715 2,353 37 937 Gains losses arising in previous years that were recognised in 2004 2003 1,240 1,527 1,122 999 118 528 Brought forward gains losses not recognised in 2004 2003 1,512 1,763 1,593 1,354 81 409 Gains losses arising in 2004 2003 that were not recognised in 2004 2003 849 989 824 1,361 25 372 At 31st December 2,361 2,752 2,417 2,715 56 37 Of which: Gains losses expected to be recognised in 2005 2004 570 870 324 613 246 257 Gains losses expected to be recognised in 2006 2005 or later 1,791 1,882 2,093 2,102 302 220 Deferred gains and losses on hedges carried forward in the balance sheet At 1st January 41 91 92 107 51 16 Deferred gains losses brought forward that were recognised in income in 2004 2003 32 81 55 64 23 17 Brought forward deferred gains losses not recognised in 2004 2003 9 10 37 43 28 33 Gains losses that became deferred in 2004 2003 174 31 172 49 2 18 At 31st December 183 41 209 92 26 51 Of which: Gains losses expected to be recognised in income in 2005 2004 61 19 66 39 5 20 Gains losses expected to be recognised in income in 2006 2005 or later 122 22 143 53 21 31 Where a non-trading derivative no longer represents a hedge because the underlying non-trading asset, liability or position has been fide-recognised or transferred into a trading portfolio, it is restated at fair value and any resultant gains or losses taken directly to the profit and loss account.
Gains of 354m 2003: 87m and losses of 427m 2003: 54m were recognised in the year to 31st December 2004.
The disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments as required by FRS 13 is provided in Note 38 on pages 180 to 181.
173 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 37 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Derivatives held or issued for trading purposes The tables set out below analyse the notional principal amounts and fair values which, after netting, are the book values of trading instruments entered into with third parties.
2004 Contract or Year-end Year-end Average Average underlying positive negative positive negative principal fair fair fair fair amount value value value value m m m m m Foreign exchange derivatives Forward foreign exchange 379,375 6,797 7,793 5,694 4,792 Currency swaps 263,727 11,287 11,750 7,476 7,677 OTC options bought and sold 169,150 1,982 1,933 2,346 1,807 OTC derivatives 812,252 20,066 21,476 15,516 14,276 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 321 14 Total 812,573 20,066 21,476 15,516 14,290 Interest rate derivatives Swaps 5,236,145 53,782 51,511 46,611 44,669 Forward rate agreements 871,939 265 208 218 189 OTC options bought and sold 1,720,881 9,132 8,912 7,857 7,626 OTC derivatives 7,828,965 63,179 60,631 54,686 52,484 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 1,029,595 Exchange traded options bought and sold 476,446 Exchange traded swaps 1,761,192 Total 11,096,198 63,179 60,631 54,686 52,484 Credit derivatives Swaps 186,275 1,444 1,186 513 509 Equity and stock index derivatives OTC options bought and sold 107,328 4,161 5,068 3,051 3,873 Equity swaps and forwards 12,367 269 182 164 182 OTC derivatives 119,695 4,430 5,250 3,215 4,055 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 33,366 Exchange traded options bought and sold 26,029 Total 179,090 4,430 5,250 3,215 4,055 Commodity derivatives OTC options bought and sold 43,057 1,398 1,184 887 769 Commodity swaps and forwards 82,725 3,557 3,596 3,216 3,315 OTC derivatives 125,782 4,955 4,780 4,103 4,084 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 11,764 Exchange traded options bought and sold 2,863 Total 140,409 4,955 4,780 4,103 4,084 Total trading derivatives 94,074 93,323 Effect of netting 69,919 69,919 Allowable offset cash collateral 5,981 5,395 Balances arising from off-balance sheet financial instruments see Other assets Other liabilities, Notes 21 and 26 18,174 18,009 Non-cash collateral held that reduced credit risk in respect of derivative instruments at 31st December 2004, but did not meet the offset criteria amounted to 1,568m 2003: 672m.
174 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 37 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued 2003 Contract or Year-end Year-end Average Average underlying positive negative positive negative principal fair fair fair fair amount value value value value m m m m m Foreign exchange derivatives Forward foreign exchange 308,671 5,501 7,109 4,288 4,956 Currency swaps 196,450 9,049 9,086 6,572 6,583 OTC options bought and sold 167,513 2,579 2,198 1,315 1,120 OTC derivatives 672,634 17,129 18,393 12,175 12,659 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 87 Exchange traded options bought and sold 3 Exchange traded swaps Total 672,724 17,129 18,393 12,175 12,659 Interest rate derivatives Swaps 2,650,289 43,891 41,874 54,517 52,241 Forward rate agreements 352,769 114 104 128 112 OTC options bought and sold 827,569 7,771 7,757 8,459 8,338 OTC derivatives 3,830,627 51,776 49,735 63,104 60,691 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 761,048 Exchange traded options bought and sold 317,857 Exchange traded swaps 972,173 Total 5,881,705 51,776 49,735 63,104 60,691 Credit derivatives Swaps 43,256 798 584 810 591 Equity and stock index derivatives OTC options bought and sold 54,488 2,482 3,433 2,173 2,572 Equity swaps and forwards 3,855 257 212 101 72 OTC derivatives 58,343 2,739 3,645 2,274 2,644 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 20,686 Exchange traded options bought and sold 11,870 Total 90,899 2,739 3,645 2,274 2,644 Commodity derivatives OTC options bought and sold 11,782 266 230 227 225 Commodity swaps and forwards 45,308 1,716 1,812 1,415 1,400 OTC derivatives 57,090 1,982 2,042 1,642 1,625 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 21,327 46 1 Exchange traded options bought and sold 961 Total 79,378 1,982 2,088 1,642 1,626 Total trading derivatives 74,424 74,445 Effect of netting 55,030 55,030 Allowable offset cash collateral 3,582 4,618 Balances arising from off-balance sheet financial instruments see Other assets Other liabilities, Notes 21 and 26 15,812 14,797 Non-cash collateral held that reduced credit risk in respect of derivative instruments at 31st December 2003, but did not meet the offset criteria amounted to 672m 2002: 591m.
175 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 37 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments held for the purpose of managing non-trading exposures The following table, which includes only the derivative components of the Groups hedging programme, summarises the nominal values, fair values and book values of derivatives held for the purpose of managing non-trading exposures.
Included in the amounts below were 10,295m 2003: 10,685m contract amount of foreign exchange derivatives and 151,957m 2003: 200,126m of interest rate derivatives which were made for asset and liability management purposes with independently managed dealing units of the Group.
2004 2003 Contract or Year-end Year-end Year-end Year-end Contract or Year-end Year-end underlying positive negative positive negative underlying positive negative principal fair fair book book principal fair fair amount value value value value amount value value m m m m m m m m Foreign exchange derivatives Forward foreign exchange 1,480 25 14 17 2 1,648 18 23 Currency swaps 10,841 211 842 181 355 10,914 64 786 OTC derivatives 12,321 236 856 198 357 12,562 82 809 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 40 Total 12,321 236 856 198 357 12,602 82 809 Interest rate derivatives Swaps 174,382 2,806 2,039 1,015 663 294,021 3,656 3,165 Forward rate agreements 22,039 5 5 5 28,742 27 5 OTC options bought and sold 4,080 41 78 3 2 15,062 5 66 OTC derivatives 200,501 2,852 2,122 1,018 670 337,825 3,688 3,236 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 83 Total 200,501 2,852 2,122 1,018 670 337,908 3,688 3,236 Credit derivatives 5,133 8 31 4 2 4,194 3 77 Equity, stock index, commodity and precious metals derivatives 1,536 70 23 3 4 1,662 78 34 At 31st December 2003, the total positive book value of derivatives held for the purposes of managing non-trading exposures was 1,856m.
The total negative book value of such contracts at 31st December 2003 was 2,198m.
The nominal amounts of OTC foreign exchange derivatives held to manage the non-trading exposure of the Group analysed by currency and final maturity are as follows: 2004 2003 Over one Over one year but year but not more not more One year than five Over five One year than five Over five or less years years Total or less years years Total m m m m m m m m. euro 352 698 1,050 406 1,890 2,296 Yen 905 3,657 4,562 1,147 4,097 5,244 United States Dollar 194 5,205 520 5,919 625 2,797 561 3,983 United States Dollar euro 105 130 235 127 196 323 United States Dollar Yen 22 148 170 13 21 159 193 United States Dollar South African Rand 176 176 233 233 Yen euro 28 28 56 22 29 51 Other 104 49 153 181 58 239 Total 1,886 9,767 668 12,321 2,754 9,088 720 12,562 176 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 37 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Maturity of notional principal amounts as at 31st December 2004 At 31st December 2004, the notional principal amounts, by residual maturity, of the Groups trading and non-trading derivatives were as follows: Over one year but not more Over One year than five five or less years years Total m m m m Foreign exchange derivatives Forward foreign exchange 360,272 18,971 1,612 380,855 Currency swaps 42,220 144,184 88,164 274,568 OTC options bought and sold 144,162 22,014 2,974 169,150 OTC derivatives 546,654 185,169 92,750 824,573 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 321 321 Total 546,975 185,169 92,750 824,894 Interest rate derivatives Swaps 2,509,842 1,798,816 1,101,869 5,410,527 Forward rate agreements 813,813 80,101 64 893,978 OTC options bought and sold 1,049,865 512,811 162,285 1,724,961 OTC derivatives 4,373,520 2,391,728 1,264,218 8,029,466 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 606,849 418,939 3,807 1,029,595 Exchange traded options bought and sold 430,147 46,299 476,446 Exchange traded swaps 221,538 861,585 678,069 1,761,192 Total 5,632,054 3,718,551 1,946,094 11,296,699 Credit derivatives Swaps 5,307 136,049 50,052 191,408 Equity and stock index derivatives OTC options bought and sold 35,182 70,665 9,675 115,522 Equity swaps and forwards 3,122 2,302 285 5,709 OTC derivatives 38,304 72,967 9,960 121,231 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 33,362 4 33,366 Exchange traded options bought and sold 15,495 9,904 630 26,029 Total 87,161 82,875 10,590 180,626 Commodity derivatives OTC options bought and sold 14,060 25,539 3,458 43,057 Commodity swaps and forwards 44,806 35,551 2,368 82,725 OTC derivatives 58,866 61,090 5,826 125,782 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 9,237 2,407 120 11,764 Exchange traded options bought and sold 1,303 1,560 2,863 Total 69,406 65,057 5,946 140,409 177 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 37 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Maturity of notional principal amounts as at 31st December 2003 At 31st December 2003, the notional principal amounts, by residual maturity, of the Groups trading and non-trading derivatives were as follows: Over one year but not more Over One year than five five or less years years Total m m m m Foreign exchange derivatives Forward foreign exchange 290,842 18,269 1,208 310,319 Currency swaps 40,357 107,488 59,519 207,364 OTC options bought and sold 150,700 15,304 1,509 167,513 OTC derivatives 481,899 141,061 62,236 685,196 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 121 6 127 Exchange traded options bought and sold 3 3 Total 482,023 141,067 62,236 685,326 Interest rate derivatives Swaps 848,412 1,228,034 867,864 2,944,310 Forward rate agreements 338,887 42,555 69 381,511 OTC options bought and sold 341,390 387,271 113,970 842,631 OTC derivatives 1,528,689 1,657,860 981,903 4,168,452 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 518,048 230,563 12,520 761,131 Exchange traded options bought and sold 246,613 71,244 317,857 Exchange traded swaps 119,331 432,237 420,605 972,173 Total 2,412,681 2,391,904 1,415,028 6,219,613 Credit derivatives Swaps 4,471 37,790 5,189 47,450 Equity and stock index derivatives OTC options bought and sold 14,563 37,226 3,509 55,298 Equity swaps and forwards 3,477 1,046 148 4,671 OTC derivatives 18,040 38,272 3,657 59,969 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 20,686 20,686 Exchange traded options bought and sold 7,932 3,841 97 11,870 Total 46,658 42,113 3,754 92,525 Commodity derivatives OTC options bought and sold 6,617 4,401 764 11,782 Commodity swaps and forwards 26,636 16,936 1,772 45,344 OTC derivatives 33,253 21,337 2,536 57,126 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 18,599 2,686 42 21,327 Exchange traded options bought and sold 671 290 961 Total 52,523 24,313 2,578 79,414 178 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 37 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Maturity analyses of replacement cost and counterparty analyses of net replacement cost The fair value of a derivative contract represents the amount at which that contract could be exchanged in an arms-length transaction, calculated at market rates current at the balance sheet date.
The totals of positive and negative fair values arising on trading derivatives at the balance sheet date have been netted where the Group has a legal right of offset with the relevant counterparty.
The total positive fair value after permitted netting equates to net replacement cost.
The residual replacement cost by maturity and net replacement cost by counterparty analyses of OTC and non-margined exchange traded derivatives held for trading and non-trading purposes at 31st December 2004 and 31st December 2003 are as follows: 2004 2003 Over one Over one year but year but One not more Over One not more Over year or than five five year or than five five less years years Total less years years Total m m m m m m m m Replacement cost by residual maturity Foreign exchange derivatives 9,285 6,886 4,320 20,491 8,357 5,862 2,929 17,148 Interest rate derivatives 6,121 23,130 34,701 63,952 5,661 21,332 25,603 52,596 Equity and stock index derivatives 1,750 2,312 394 4,456 550 1,952 267 2,769 Commodity derivatives 1,791 2,899 265 4,955 1,008 851 123 1,982 Credit derivatives 22 1,098 332 1,452 11 381 408 800 18,969 36,325 40,012 95,306 15,587 30,378 29,330 75,295 Total Total 2004 2003 m m Net replacement cost by counterparty Central Banks 2,563 1,046 Banks and other financial institutions 7,043 8,364 Other corporate and public bodies 9,552 7,010 19,158 16,420 Potential credit risk exposure The potential credit risk exposure for each product equals net replacement cost as reduced by the fair value of collateral provided by the counterparty.
At 31st December 2004 and 31st December 2003, the potential credit risk exposures in respect of the Groups trading and non-trading OTC derivatives were not significantly different to net replacement cost.
179 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 38 Fair values of financial instruments Financial instruments include both financial assets and financial liabilities and also derivatives.
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Wherever possible, the Group has estimated fair value using market prices or data available for instruments with characteristics either identical or similar to those of the instruments held by the Group.
In certain cases, however, including loans and advances to customers, no ready markets currently exist in the UK wherein exchanges between willing parties occur.
Accordingly, various techniques have been developed to estimate what the fair value of such instruments might be.
These estimation techniques are necessarily subjective in nature and involve several assumptions.
There have been no significant changes in the estimation techniques or the methodology used compared with those used at 31st December 2003.
Because a variety of estimation techniques are employed and significant estimates made, comparisons of fair values between financial institutions may not be meaningful.
Readers of these accounts are thus advised to use caution when using this data to evaluate the Groups financial position.
Fair value information is not provided for items that do not meet the definitions of a financial instrument.
These items include short-term debtors and creditors, intangible assets such as the value of the Groups branch network, the long-term relationships with depositors core deposit intangibles, premises and equipment and shareholders equity.
These items are material and accordingly the fair value information presented does not purport to represent, nor should it be construed to represent, the underlying value of the Group as a going concern at 31st December 2004.
The following table shows the carrying amount and the fair value of the Groups financial instruments analysed between trading and non-trading assets and liabilities.
2004 2003 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Note m m m m Trading Assets Treasury bills and other eligible bills a 5,278 5,278 4,064 4,064 Loans and advances to banks including reverse repurchase agreements a 50,145 50,145 44,670 44,670 Loans and advances to customers including reverse repurchase agreements a 65,099 65,099 58,961 58,961 Debt securities a 87,671 87,671 59,812 59,812 Equity shares a 10,873 10,873 6,905 6,905 Derivatives see analysis in Note 37 b 18,174 18,174 15,812 15,812 London Metal Exchange warrants and other metals trading positions see Note 21 a 952 952 1,290 1,290 Liabilities Deposits by Banks and customers accounts including repurchase agreements a 82,568 82,568 65,505 65,505 Short positions in securities see Note 26 a 53,364 53,364 42,228 42,228 Derivatives see analysis in Note 37 b 18,009 18,009 14,797 14,797 180 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 38 Fair values of financial instruments continued 2004 2003 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Note m m m m Non-trading Assets Cash and balances at central banks a 1,753 1,753 1,726 1,726 Items in course of collection from other banks a 1,772 1,772 2,006 2,006 Treasury bills and other eligible bills a 1,380 1,380 3,113 3,113 Loans and advances to banks c 24,986 24,982 17,254 17,261 Loans and advances to customers d 189,847 190,005 167,858 168,047 Debt securities e 39,757 39,971 37,581 38,210 Equity shares e 1,293 1,513 954 1,134 Derivatives see analysis in Note 37 b 1,223 3,166 1,856 3,851 Liabilities Deposits by Banks and customers accounts f 246,174 246,180 213,455 213,470 Debt securities in issue g 67,806 67,900 49,569 50,888 Items in course of collection due to other banks a 1,205 1,205 1,286 1,286 Undated loan capital h 6,149 6,946 6,310 7,048 Dated loan capital h 6,128 6,483 6,029 6,263 Short positions in securities see Note 26 e 350 351 7,706 7,664 Derivatives see analysis in Note 37 b 1,033 3,032 2,198 4,156 Notes a Financial assets and financial liabilities where fair value approximates carrying value because they are either i carried at market value or ii have minimal credit losses and are either short-term in nature or repriced frequently.
b Derivatives held for trading purposes are carried at fair value.
Derivatives held for non-trading purposes are accounted for in accordance with the accounting treatment of the underlying transaction or transactions being hedged.
The fair value of these instruments is estimated using market prices or pricing models consistent with the methods used for valuing similar instruments used for trading purposes.
c Within this calculation, the fair value for loans and advances to banks was estimated using discounted cash flows, applying either market rates, where practicable, or rates currently offered by other financial institutions for placings with similar characteristics.
d The Group provides lending facilities of varying rates and maturities to corporate and personal customers.
In estimating the fair value of such instruments, the fair value of personal and corporate loans subject to variable interest rates is considered to approximate the carrying value.
The fair value of such instruments subject to fixed interest rates was estimated by discounting cash flows using market rates or rates normally offered by the Group.
e The valuation of listed securities and investments is at quoted market prices and that of unlisted securities and investments is based on the Directors estimate, which takes into consideration discounted cash flows, price earnings ratios and other suitable valuation techniques.
f Fair values of deposit liabilities payable on demand interest free, interest bearing and savings deposits approximate to their carrying value.
The fair value of all other deposits and other borrowings was estimated using discounted cash flows, applying either market rates, where practicable, or rates currently offered by the Group for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
g Fair values of short-term debt securities in issue are approximately equal to their carrying amount.
Fair values of other debt securities in issue are based on quoted prices where available, or where these are unavailable, are estimated using other valuation techniques.
h The estimated fair values for dated and undated convertible and non-convertible loan capital were based upon quoted market rates for the issue concerned or equivalent issues with similar terms and conditions.
i The Group considers that, given the lack of an established market, the diversity of fee structures and the difficulty of separating the value of the instruments from the value of the overall transaction, it is not meaningful to provide an estimate of the fair value of financial commitments and contingent liabilities.
181 181 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 39 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash flow from operating activities 2004 2003 2002 m m m Operating profit 4,502 3,812 3,218 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 1,091 1,347 1,484 Depreciation and amortisation 594 554 545 Net decrease increase in accrued expenditure and prepayments 489 216 90 Provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments 2 1 1 Other provisions for liabilities and charges 440 241 203 Interest on dated and undated loan capital 691 684 645 Decrease increase in shareholders interest in the long-term assurance fund 112 42 55 Net increase decrease in accrued interest and deferred income 86 170 402 Net profit on disposal of investments and fixed assets 211 84 47 Other non-cash movements 130 110 85 7,530 6,319 5,697 Net change in items in course of collection 153 199 25 Net increase in other credit balances 5,986 12,139 13,105 Net increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 40,745 26,294 35,997 Net increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 63,465 16,429 33,485 Net increase in other assets 2,172 2,886 387 Net increase in debt securities and equity shares 28,838 8,831 8,812 Net increase decrease in treasury and other eligible bills 530 579 260 Other non-cash movements 180 56 59 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 6,089 2,290 6,747 40 Acquisitions The Group made the following significant acquisitions of Group undertakings in 2004 which are accounted for on an acquisition basis: % Acquired Date Barclays Bank Egypt acquired remaining 40% 40% 11 03 04 Juniper Financial Corporation 100% 1 12 04 Book value and Fair value m Net assets acquired Cash and balances at central banks 16 Loans and advances to banks 79 Loans and advances to customers 753 Other assets 111 Deposits by banks 4 Customer accounts 128 Other liabilities 809 Net assets 18 Goodwill 165 Satisfied by cash 183 The above table reflects all acquisitions made in the year.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired given in the above table are provisional, and will be finalised in 2005.
Acquiring Juniper underlines Barclays strategy to grow its global product business.
The Group acquired a 100% holding in Juniper for a total consideration of 153m and provisionally generated goodwill in Barclays of 149m.
The amount of goodwill acquired will be finalised in 2005.
182 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 41 Analysis of the net outflow of cash in respect of the acquisitions 2004 2003 2002 m m m Cash consideration, including acquisition expenses 227 1,103 454 Cash at bank and in hand acquired 16 118 3 Net outflow of cash in respect of the purchase of Group undertakings 211 985 451 42 Sale of Group undertakings during the year 2004 2003 2002 Net cash outflow from formation of FirstCaribbean International Bank Ltd m m m Advances and other accounts 3,277 Deposits and other borrowings 3,189 Net assets disposed of 88 Balance transferred to associated undertaking 366 Profit on disposal reflected in statement of total recognised gains and losses 206 Amounts not yet settled including deferred consideration 28 Cash at bank and in hand disposed of 116 Net cash outflow from formation of FirstCaribbean International Bank Ltd 160 In 2002 the balance transferred to associated undertakings comprised the Groups share of the net assets disposed of and the Groups share of the net assets acquired from the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and goodwill thereon.
Fair value adjustments of 1m were applied to the assets acquired primarily relating to loans and advances to customers and customer accounts.
2004 2003 2002 Sale of Group undertakings m m m Goodwill written off 10 Advances and other accounts 65 2 Deposits and other borrowings 30 1 Net assets disposed of 35 11 Net profit loss on disposal 4 3 Amounts not yet settled including deferred consideration 8 Cash at bank and in hand disposed of 1 Net cash inflow outflow from sale of Group undertakings 39 1 43 Changes in financing during the year The following table does not include the premium and legal costs on the repurchase of ordinary shares of 664m and takes account of the Groups contribution to the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP of 54m.
NonUndated Dated recourse loan loan Ordinary Share Minority financing capital capital shares premium interests m m m m m m Barclays PLC At beginning of year 4,513 6,310 6,029 1,642 5,417 283 Exchange rate and other movements 161 44 122 Net cash inflow outflow from financing 4,264 55 28 107 740 At end of year 8,777 6,149 6,128 1,614 5,524 901 183 183 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 44 Analysis of cash balances 31st Dec 31st Dec 31st Dec 31st Dec 2004 Change 2003 Change 2002 Change 2001 m m m m m m m Cash and balances at central bank 1,753 27 1,726 306 2,032 751 1,281 Loans and advances to other banks repayable on demand 2,710 817 1,893 80 1,973 2,144 4,117 4,463 844 3,619 386 4,005 1,393 5,398 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m m Balance at beginning of year 3,619 4,005 5,398 Net increase decrease in cash before the effect of exchange rate movements 808 372 1,207 Effect of exchange rate movements 36 14 186 844 386 1,393 Balance at end of year 4,463 3,619 4,005 45 Related party transactions a Subsidiary undertakings Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are shown in Note 50.
In accordance with FRS 8, transactions or balances between Group entities that have been eliminated on consolidation are not reported.
b Associated undertakings and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services for associated undertakings and joint ventures.
These are conducted on similar terms to third-party transactions and are not material to the Groups results.
Details of lendings to associated undertakings and joint ventures are set out in Notes 13 and 14.
Any loans are made on substantially the same criteria and terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for corporate transactions with other persons and did not involve more than the normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features.
Astron Document Solutions Limited previously Edotech Limited, an associate until its disposal on 7th April 2004, provided printing services to the Group.
The cost of these services provided in the year was 35.3m 2003: 31.1m, 2002: 24.1m.
At the end of the year, a balance outstanding of 2.9m was included in sundry creditors 2003: 3m, 2002: 2.3m.
Intelligent Processing Systems Limited IPSL is a joint venture between the Group, Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc and Unisys Limited.
The Bank has outsourced its cheque processing services to IPSL.
The cost of these core services to the Barclays Group in the UK provided in the year was 36.6m 2003: 26.7m, 2002: 30.2m.
At the year end, a balance outstanding of 1.4m was included in sundry creditors 2003: 1.7m, 2002: 2.2m.
In addition, a further 15.1m was included in prepayments and accrued income 2003: 16.6m, 2002: 6.3m.
Gresham Insurance Company Limited Gresham became an associated undertaking following the acquisition of Woolwich plc.
The arrangement enables Gresham to underwrite household insurances provided to customers of the Group.
Underwriting payments made to Gresham during the year were 81.9m 2003: 44.8m, 2002: 54.9m and balances outstanding of 63.2m 2003: 53.2m, 2002: 6.9m are included in trade creditors.
Global Home Loans Limited GHL is an associated undertaking of the Group.
Mortgage origination and processing activities are outsourced to GHL and its subsidiaries.
Gabetti Holdings SpA, an associated undertaking, acts as an introducer of mortgage business to Banca Woolwich SpA and received commission of 5.5m in 2004 2003: 5.1m, 2002: 7m.
At the year end, there were no amounts outstanding 2003: nil, 2002: 1m sundry creditors.
The value of the Groups investment in Gabetti Holdings SpA, based on its listed share price at 31st December 2004, was 9.9m 2003: 8.3m, 2002: 7.4m.
184 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 45 Related party transactions continued Solution Personal Finance Limited formerly Littlewoods Personal Finance Limited, changed 21st September 2004 is a joint venture between the Group and Littlewoods Ltd.
The Group provides a retail financial service to Solution Personal Finance Limited retail customers and charged 7m during 2004 for account servicing, maintenance and development costs 2003: 4.4m, 2002: 1.7m.
During 2004, Solution Personal Finance Limited customers accounts were hosted on Barclays systems.
Solution Personal Finance Limited is entitled to recover the income generated from their customers amounting to 14.9m in 2004 2003: 11.5m, 2002: 2.8m.
At 31st December 2004, 3m was owed to Solution Personal Finance Limited 2003: 0.8m, 2002: 2.2m.
There was 4.1m outstanding from Solution Personal Finance Limited at that date 2003: nil, 2002: nil.
Xansa Barclaycard Partnership Limited formerly Barshelfco No 73 Limited became a joint venture between the Group and Xansa Plc on 1st February 2002.
The company delivers IT services to Barclaycard.
The IT service contract has an estimated minimum value of 125m over five years.
The cost of providing these services to the Group during the year was 52m 2003: 37.2m, 2002: 38.5m.
At 31st December 2004, 3.3m 2003: 1.4m, 2002: 0.6m was owed to Xansa Barclaycard Partnership Limited.
FirstCaribbean International Bank Limited became an associate of the Group in October 2002 following the combination of the Caribbean retail, corporate and offshore banking operations of Barclays and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
As part of this transaction, the bank has agreed to ensure that the pension scheme assets are sufficient to cover the pension fund liabilities of the affected employees and a 20m provision was created, in 2002, to cover a potential shortfall in pension scheme assets.
During 2004 it was established that there were sufficient assets in the scheme and consequently the provision was released.
At 31st December 2004, a provision of nil 2003: 20m, 2002: 20m was held to cover this liability.
Barclaycard received management fees of nil 2003: 1.2m, 2002: 0.2m in respect of credit card services supplied to FirstCaribbean Investment Bank in 2004.
The value of the Groups investment in FirstCaribbean International Bank Limited, based on its listed share price as quoted on the Barbados Stock Exchange as at 31st December 2004, was 741m 2003: 498m, 2002: 706m.
E-Crossnet Limited is a joint venture between the Group and Merrill Lynch Mercury Asset Management.
The company was established as an electronic crossing network for UK and Continental Equities.
During the year, the Group invested a further 1m in this joint venture.
c Pension funds, unit trusts and investment funds The Group provides a number of normal current and interest bearing cash accounts to the Group pension funds principally the UK Retirement Fund and the 1951 Fund in order to facilitate the day to day financial administration of the funds.
Group companies, principally Barclays Global Investors, also provide investment management and custodian services.
The Group also provides normal banking services for unit trust and investment funds managed by Group companies.
These are all conducted on similar terms to third-party transactions and are not individually material.
In aggregate, amounts included in the accounts are as follows: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Liabilities of Group banking facilities 207 228 87 Interest payable banking facilities 12 Fees receivable investment management and custody 19 14 12 Value of schemes investments in pooled funds managed by BGI 11,589 13,140 11,866 Income from pooled funds managed by BGI 13 10 11 Investments with other Group companies OTC derivatives 161 195 330 Private Equity 11 51 Margin loans from other Group companies 64 152 176 d Directors Details of Directors emoluments are set out in Note 46 and further information on Directors emoluments, shareholdings, options and awards is given in the Barclays report on remuneration on pages 27 to 39.
In the ordinary course of business, the Bank makes loans to companies where a Director or officer is also a Director of Barclays.
With the exception of an interest free loan of 0.5m to the Charity Bank Limited part of the Charities Aid Foundation group of which Sir Brian Jenkins is President of Trustees, these loans are made on substantially the same criteria and terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons and did not involve more than the normal risk of collectibility or present other unfavourable features.
The interest free loan to the Charity Bank Limited was repaid on 21st September 2004 and the Bank subscribed on the same date for preference shares of the same value.
Xansa Plc, of which the late Dame Hilary Cropper was Honorary President, provides software support and development resource capability to the Group.
The total value of these transactions for the year ending 31st December 2004 was 13.1m 2003: 10.6m, 2002: 14.3m.
This is in addition to the transactions with Xansa Barclaycard Partnership Limited discussed in Note b above.
185 185 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 46 Directors and officers emoluments and interests Directors and officers emoluments and other benefits The aggregate emoluments and other benefits of the Directors of Barclays PLC set out below are disclosed in accordance with Part I of Schedule 6 to the Companies Act 1985.
2004 2003 000 000 Aggregate emoluments 16,229 7,617 Gains made on the exercise of share options 928 24 Actual pension contributions to money purchase scheme 2004: one Director and 2003: none 115 Notional pension contributions to money purchase schemes 2004: one Director and 2003: one Director 990 990 As at 31st December 2004, four Directors were accruing retirement benefits under a defined benefit scheme 2003: two Directors.
For US disclosure purposes, the aggregate emoluments of all Directors and officers of Barclays PLC who held office during the year 2004: 30 persons, 2003: 27 persons for the year ended 31st December 2004 amounted to 48,125,000 2003: 51,215,000.
In addition, the aggregate amount set aside for the year ended 31st December 2004, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and officers amounted to 1,939,000 2003: 1,741,000.
The aggregate emoluments of all Directors and officers of Barclays Bank PLC who held office during the year 2004: 31 persons, 2003: 28 persons for the year ended 31st December 2004 amounted to 48,263,000 2003: 51,328,000.
In addition, the aggregate amount set aside by the Bank and its subsidiary undertakings, for the year ended 31st December 2004, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and officers amounted to 1,939,000 2003: 1,741,000.
Directors and officers shareholding and options The beneficial ownership of the ordinary share capital of Barclays PLC by all Directors and officers of Barclays PLC involving 21 persons and Barclays Bank PLC involving 22 persons at 31st December 2004 amounted to 1,681,679 ordinary shares of 25p each 0.03% of ordinary share capital outstanding.
Executive Directors and officers of Barclays PLC as a group involving 12 persons held, at 31st December 2004, options to purchase 17,096,750 Barclays PLC ordinary shares of 25p each at prices ranging from 308p to 411p under the SAYE Share Option Scheme, and ranging from 397p to 445p under the Executive Share Option Scheme and ranging from 326p to 534p under the Incentive Share Option Plan, respectively.
Contracts with Directors and connected persons and with managers The aggregate amounts outstanding at 31st December 2004 under transactions, arrangements and agreements made by authorised institutions within the Group for persons who are, or were during the year, Directors of Barclays PLC and persons connected with them and for managers, within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, of Barclays Bank PLC were: Number of Number of Directors or connected Amount managers persons 000 Directors Loans 3 2,031 Quasi-loans and credit card accounts 41 25 Managers Loans 5 n a 193 Quasi-loans and credit card accounts 11 n a 43 Each of the transactions, arrangements and agreements disclosed above were made in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
There are no transactions, arrangements or agreements with Barclays PLC or its subsidiary undertakings in which Directors, or persons connected with them, or managers of Barclays Bank PLC had a material interest and which are disclosable under the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 1985, other than options to subscribe for Barclays PLC ordinary shares as described above.
186 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 47 Other entities There are a number of entities that do not qualify as subsidiary undertakings but which give rise to benefits that are in substance no different from those that would arise were the entity a subsidiary.
In accordance with the disclosure required by FRS 5, the summarised combined results of these entities, which are included in the Group consolidated results, by type of entity for each main financial statement heading where there are material items, are set out below.
They are categorised according to the activities in which they are engaged.
Credit structuring Asset securitisation Client business vehicles intermediation a 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m m m Profit and loss account Interest receivable 94 121 222 147 5 26 Interest payable 94 121 222 147 5 3 Operating profit 23 Balance sheet Fixed assets 2 Investment in Group subsidiary undertakings 1 1 Other investments 1,530 Debt securities 759 1,306 55 55 Loans and advances 6,794 5,777 215 Amounts due from Group undertakings 1,228 1,410 287 852 4,120 Other debtors 32 29 21 Cash 36 76 4 1 67 Debt securities in issue 2,003 2,768 134 4,490 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 18 22 7,026 2,227 216 5,391 Creditors due greater than one year 8 349 Shareholders funds retained profit 3 3 Cash flow Net cash inflow from operating activities 2 37 78 49 Note a Includes entities previously disclosed as financing transactions.
Subsidiary undertakings excluded from consolidation Percentage of ordinary Equity Retained share shareholders profit loss capital held funds for the year Country of registration or incorporation Name %mm UK Oak Dedicated Limited 100 1 5 UK Oak Dedicated Two Limited 100 1 2 UK Oak Dedicated Three Limited 100 3 1 Cayman Islands Gallaher C. I Limited 100 1 Cayman Islands Core Investments Cayman Limited 100 In accordance with Section 231 5 of the Companies Act 1985 the above information is provided for subsidiary undertakings excluded from consolidation.
The subsidiaries are excluded because the Group could not direct the financial and operating policies or on the grounds that another group has a superior economic interest and consolidates the undertaking in their financial statements under UK GAAP.
Gallaher C. I Limited and Core Investments Cayman Limited have non-equity share capital owned by third parties comprising fixed rate redeemable preference shares of 1,502m and 2,000m respectively.
c Total income for class of business disclosure analyses operating income from the profit and loss account.
Gross income for geographical disclosure includes interest receivable, fees and commissions receivable, dealing profits and other operating income.
d The profit loss on ordinary activities before tax by class of business reflects the following amounts for profit losses from associated undertakings and joint ventures: UK Banking 4m 2003: 10m, Private Clients and International 49m 2003: 17m, Barclaycard 4m 2003: 2m, Barclays Capital nil 2003: 1m and Barclays Global Investors 2m 2003: 1m.
e Goodwill amortisation included in the profit loss on ordinary activities before tax, by class of business, is shown in the Analysis of Results by Business on pages 106 to 112.
49 Retirement benefits As disclosed in Note 4, Barclays accounts for pensions in accordance with SSAP 24.
The disclosure in Note 4 sets out details of the assumptions underlying the SSAP 24 valuation.
FRS 17 Retirement Benefits will be effective for companies subject to UK accounting standards for years beginning on or after 1st January 2005.
In 2004, the standard requires disclosures to be made of the amount of the asset or liability that would have been recognised in the balance sheet and the amounts that would have been recognised in the performance statements if the standard had been implemented.
As described in Note 4, Barclays provides pension plans for employees in most parts of the world.
For the purposes of the standard, the UK Retirement Fund UKRF and other defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, US, Germany and Spain, are considered to be material.
The scheme in Germany and one of the US schemes are unfunded.
The disclosures below reflect interim actuarial valuations as at 31st December 2004 by a professionally qualified independent actuary using the projected unit method.
This method results in the current service cost in respect of closed schemes primarily 1964 Pension Scheme increasing as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
191 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 49 Retirement benefits continued The protected rights contributions in respect of RIS and PIP were 2.4m for RIS and PIP members in 2004.
Other UKRF payments include a 250m contribution in December 2004 as described in Note 4.
Other UK schemes paid contributions of 9m in the year 2003: 14m.
Overseas schemes paid contributions of 5m in the year 2003: 3m.
The main financial assumptions used in the actuarial valuations were: 2004 2003 2002 UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas schemes schemes schemes schemes schemes schemes % p. a.
Notes a Other includes 375m 2003: 316m representing the money purchase assets of the UKRF.
b Present value of scheme liabilities includes 375m 2003: 316m representing money purchase liabilities of the UKRF.
c The increased UKRF deficit is primarily attributable to a change in mortality assumptions at 31st December 2004.
A reduction in corporate bond yields also resulted in a reduced discount rate for valuing liabilities and a further increase in the deficit.
These factors more than offset the 250m contribution and better than assumed investment performance over the year.
192 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 49 Retirement benefits continued The surpluses and deficits relating to pension schemes would be presented in the balance sheet as follows: 2004 2003 Pension Pension Pension Pension asset liability asset liability m m m m Scheme surpluses deficits 61 2,291 52 1,676 Related deferred tax liability asset 18 687 16 503 Net pension asset liability 43 1,604 36 1,173 As described in Note 4, the Group also provides post-retirement health care to certain UK and US pensioners.
Where appropriate, provisions for such benefits are recognised on an actuarial basis.
The disclosures below reflect actuarial valuations as at 31st December 2004 by a professionally qualified independent actuary.
The long-term rate of increase in medical expenses used in the actuarial valuation was 5% trending down over five years from 10% in the short term in the UK 2003: 5.75% and 5% trending down over five years from 10% in the short term in the US 2003: 5% and the discount rate used was 5.4% in the UK 2003: 5.5% and 5.75% in the US 2003: 6.25%.
The deficit relating to post-retirement health care would be presented in the balance sheet as follows: 2004 2003 m m Deficit 66 62 Related deferred tax asset 20 19 Net post-retirement liability 46 43 The net reserve for pension schemes and post-retirement health care is 1,607m 2003: 1,180m.
The amounts that would have been recognised in the profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses in respect of pension schemes and post-retirement health care in 2004 were as follows: 2004 2003 Analysis of amounts which would have been charged to operating profit m m a Current service cost 331 289 Past service cost 5 12 Gains and losses on settlements and curtailments 23 13 Total operating charge 313 288 Note a Current service cost includes 30m 2003: 55m relating to the money purchase sections of the UKRF.
2004 2003 Analysis of amounts which would have been included as other finance income m m Expected return on scheme assets 814 720 Interest on scheme liabilities 760 680 Net return 54 40 2004 2004 UK schemes Overseas schemes As % of As % of present present As % of value of As % of value of scheme scheme scheme scheme Analysis of amounts which would have been included in the assets liabilities assets liabilities statement of total recognised gains and losses m % % m % % Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 577 4 11 4 Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 36 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 1,224 8 36 10 Actuarial loss gain recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses 611 4 25 7 193 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 49 Retirement benefits continued 2003 2003 UK schemes Overseas schemes As % of As % of present present As % of value of As % of value of scheme scheme scheme scheme Analysis of amounts which would have been included in the assets liabilities assets liabilities statement of total recognised gains and losses m % % m % % Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 938 8 17 7 Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 155 1 1 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 1,624 12 23 8 Actuarial loss recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses 531 4 7 3 2002 2002 UK schemes Overseas schemes As % of As % of present present As % of value of As % of value of scheme scheme scheme scheme Analysis of amounts which would have been included in the assets liabilities assets liabilities statement of total recognised gains and losses m % % m % % Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 2,153 21 31 18 Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 36 2 1 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 295 2 2 1 Actuarial loss recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses 1,822 15 31 14 2004 2003 PostPostUK Overseas retirement UK Overseas retirement pension pension health pension pension health Analysis of movements in pension scheme and post-retirement schemes schemes care schemes schemes care health care surpluses deficits during 2004 m m m m m m Deficit in the schemes at beginning of year 1,590 34 62 1,489 39 59 Contributions 27054 669 3 4 Current service cost 324 6 1 284 4 1 Past service cost 5 9 3 Settlements and curtailments 23 13 Exchange movements 33 15 Other finance income cost 59 1 4 47 3 4 Actuarial loss 610 20 6 528 3 7 Acquisition loss gain 9 14 Deficit in the schemes at end of year 2,177 53 66 1,590 34 62 Contributions of 270m include a payment of 250m in December 2004, as described in Note 4.
194 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 50 Subsidiary undertakings Percentage of equity Country of registration capital held or incorporation Company name Nature of Business % Botswana Barclays Bank of Botswana Limited Banking 74.9 Cayman Islands Barclays Capital Japan Limited Securities dealing 100 Egypt Barclays Bank Egypt SAE Banking 100 England Barclays Bank PLC Banking, holding company 100 England Barclays Private Bank Limited Banking 100 England Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited Commercial finance, holding company, leasing 100 England Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited Holding company 88.9 England Barclays Global Investors Limited Investment management 94.8 England Barclays Life Assurance Company Limited Life and pensions business 100 England Barclays Bank Trust Company Limited Banking, securities industries and trust services 100 England Barclays Stockbrokers Limited Stockbroking 100 England Barclays Capital Securities Limited Securities dealing 100 England Barclays Global Investors Pensions Investment management 94.8 Management Limited England FIRSTPLUS Financial Group PLC Consumer finance 100 England Gerrard Limited Banking 100 England Barclays Financial Planning Limited Financial advisory services 100 Ghana Barclays Bank of Ghana Limited Banking 100 Ireland Barclays Insurance Dublin Limited Insurance 100 Ireland Barclays Assurance Dublin Limited Insurance 100 Isle of Man Barclays Private Clients Banking 100 International Limited Jersey Barclays Private Bank and Trust Limited Banking, holding company 100 Kenya Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Banking 68.5 Spain Barclays Bank SA Banking 99.8 Switzerland Barclays Bank Suisse SA Banking and trust services 100 USA Juniper Financial Corporation Banking 100 USA Barclays Capital Inc. Securities dealing 100 USA Barclays Global Investors, National Association Investment management 94.8 Zimbabwe Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Limited Banking 65.8 In accordance with Section 231 5 of the Companies Act 1985, the above information is provided solely in relation to principal subsidiary undertakings.
With the exception of Barclays Capital Japan Limited which operates in Japan, the country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation for each of the above undertakings.
Investments in these undertakings are held directly by Barclays Bank PLC except where marked.
Full information of all subsidiaries will be included in the Annual Return.
51 Legal proceedings Proceedings have been brought in the United States against a number of defendants including Barclays following the collapse of Enron.
In each case the claims are against groups of defendants.
Barclays considers that the claims against it are without merit and is defending them vigorously.
A court ordered mediation commenced in September 2003 but no material progress has been made towards a resolution of the litigation.
In addition, in respect of investigations relating to Enron, Barclays is continuing to provide information in response to enquiries by regulatory and governmental authorities in the US and elsewhere including subpoenas from the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
It is not possible to estimate Barclays possible loss in relation to these matters, nor the effect that it might have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
Barclays is engaged in various other litigation proceedings both in the United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, including the United States, involving claims by and against it, which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Barclays does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of the proceedings to which Barclays is party to have a significant adverse effect on the financial position of the Group.
195 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles The accounts presented in this report have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the UK UK GAAP.
Such principles vary in significant respects from those generally accepted in the United States US GAAP.
The significant differences applicable to the Groups accounts are summarised below.
UK GAAP US GAAP Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiary and associated Prior to 1st January 2002, goodwill was capitalised and amortised over undertakings and joint ventures is capitalised and amortised through its useful economic life under the provisions of APB16.
the profit and loss account over its expected useful economic life SFAS 141 and SFAS 142 require intangible assets to be separately with a maximum of 20 years.
Capitalised goodwill is written off when identified, no amortisation to be charged on goodwill balances and judged to be irrecoverable for acquisitions prior to 1st January 1998, goodwill balances to be reviewed at least annually for impairment.
goodwill was charged directly against reserves in accordance with US GAAP can require the recognition of certain assets and liabilities SSAP 22.
In the event of a subsequent disposal, any goodwill that would either not be recognised or have a different measurement previously charged directly against reserves will be written back and value under UK GAAP.
This will lead to a different value of goodwill for reflected in the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognised under UK GAAP only if they are Intangible assets are recognised as an asset apart from goodwill if they separately identifiable and can be disposed of without disposing arise from contractual or other legal rights regardless of whether these of a business of the entity.
rights are transferable or separable from the acquired entity or from other rights and obligations.
If an intangible asset does not arise from contractual or other legal rights it is recognised only if it is capable of being separated.
Intangible assets are initially recognised at fair value.
An intangible asset with a finite useful life is amortised over the period for which it contributes to the future cash flows of the entity.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable.
Pensions In respect of defined benefit schemes, consistent with the In respect of defined benefit schemes, the same actuarial calculation requirements of SSAP 24, the assets are assessed at fair value, while approach is used under SFAS 87 as under UK GAAP, but to comply the projected liabilities are discounted to a present value at a longwith the relevant standards, differences arise in certain assumptions term interest rate reflecting the expected return on the schemes and methodologies and in the measurement date adopted for assets.
Any variation between the SSAP 24 calculation described above calculation purposes.
In particular, under SFAS 87, assets are assessed and the amount held on the Banks balance sheet is allocated over the at a fair value and the present value of the projected liabilities are expected average remaining service lives of current employees.
assessed at a current settlement rate as at a measurement date of 30th September each year.
The current settlement rate for this For defined contribution schemes, the net pension cost recognised purpose reflects the yield on high-quality corporate bonds as at the in the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable measurement date.
Variations between the funded status of the along with an allowance for risk and expense costs.
scheme and the amount held on the Banks balance sheet falling outside of the allowable corridor under SFAS 87 are allocated over the average remaining service lives of current employees.
For defined contribution schemes, SFAS 87 provides for the same treatment as under UK GAAP.
196 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued UK GAAP US GAAP Post-retirement benefits Where appropriate, post-retirement benefits are assessed actuarially Under SFAS 106, there are certain differences in the actuarial method on a similar basis to pension liabilities under SSAP 24 and are used and variations in the computation of regular cost as compared discounted at a long-term rate.
Variations from regular cost are with UK GAAP.
expressed as a percentage of payroll and spread over the average Where an actuarial basis is not appropriate the treatment is the same remaining service lives of current eligible employees.
Where an actuarial basis is not appropriate, provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation and it can be reliably estimated.
Leasing lessor Gross earnings under finance leases are allocated to accounting periods Application of SFAS 13 gives rise to a level rate of return on the in such a way as to give a constant periodic rate of return on the investment in the lease, but without taking into account tax payments post-tax net cash investment.
This results in income being recognised in different periods than under UK GAAP, the magnitude of the difference depending upon the value and average age of the leasing portfolio at each period end.
Leasing lessee In accordance with FRS 5 and SSAP 21, leases are categorised as finance Leases are classified as capital leases when certain criteria are met leases when the substance of the agreement is that of a financing as outlined under SFAS 13.
All other leases are classified as transaction and the lessee assumes substantially all of the risks and benefits operating leases.
All other leases are categorised as operating leases.
Deferred tax Prior to 1st January 2002 deferred tax was recognised using the Under SFAS 109, a liability method is used, but deferred tax assets and liability method on timing differences that have originated but not liabilities are calculated for all temporary differences.
A valuation reversed at the balance sheet date.
allowance is raised against a deferred tax asset where it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not Following the introduction of FRS 19, deferred tax is provided in full be realised.
in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recoverable.
Compensation arrangements Where shares are purchased, the difference between the purchase The Group adopted SFAS 123 which encourages the adoption of price and any contribution made by the employee is charged to the accounting for share compensation schemes, based on their estimated profit and loss account in the period to which it relates.
Where shares fair values at the date of the grant.
Accordingly, the Group charges are issued, or options granted, the charge made to the profit and loss this fair value to the profit and loss account over the period to their account is the difference between the fair value at the time the award vesting dates.
is made and any contribution made by the employee.
For these Non-share-based compensation arrangements awarded to employees purposes fair value is equal to the intrinsic value of the option.
where no performance criteria, other than continued service, are Non-share-based compensation arrangements awarded to employees required to be met, are accrued evenly over the period of grant to where no performance criteria, other than continued service, are date of payout.
required to be met, are accrued fully on the date of grant.
Shareholders interest in the retail long-term assurance fund The value of the shareholders interest in the retail long-term The net present value of the profits inherent in the in-force life and assurance fund represents an estimate of the net present value pensions policies of the long-term assurance fund is not recognised of the profits inherent in the in-force policies.
by the Group under US GAAP.
An adjustment is made for the amortisation of acquisition costs and fees in accordance with SFAS 60 and SFAS 97.
197 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued UK GAAP US GAAP Restructuring of business provisions In accordance with FRS 3 and FRS 12, provisions have been made for Prior to the issuance of SFAS 146, Emerging Issues Task Force EITF any direct costs and net future operating losses arising from a business 94-3 and Staff Accounting Bulletin SAB 100 set out specific conditions that management is committed to restructure, sell or terminate, has a which must be met to enable liabilities relating to restructuring, sale or detailed formal plan for exit, and has raised a valid expectation of involuntary terminations to be recognised in the period management carrying out the restructuring plan.
In respect of costs other than employee termination benefits, the basic requirements for recognition at the date of commitment to the plan to terminate are that they are not associated with, or do not benefit from, activities that will be continued.
SFAS 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after 31st December 2002.
Liabilities recognised prior to the initial application of SFAS 146 continue to be accounted for in accordance with EITF 94-3.
Extinguishment of liabilities Under FRS 5, a liability is extinguished if an entitys obligation to Under SFAS 140, a debtor may derecognise a liability if and only if transfer economic benefits is satisfied, removed or is no longer likely either a the debtor pays the creditor and is relieved of its obligation to occur.
Satisfaction would encompass an in-substance defeasance for the liability, or b the debtor is legally released from being the transaction where liabilities are satisfied from the cash flows arising primary obligor under the liability either financially or by the creditor.
from essentially risk free assets transferred by the debtor to an SFAS 140 does not allow for the derecognition of a liability by means irrevocable defeasance trust.
of an in-substance defeasance transaction or if it is no longer believed likely that the liability will be settled.
Revaluation of property Property is carried either at original cost or at subsequent valuation Revaluations of property are not permitted under US GAAP.
less related depreciation, calculated on the revalued amount where Freehold and long-leasehold property is depreciated over its estimated applicable.
Prior to 1st January 2000, revaluation surpluses were taken useful economic life based on the historical cost.
directly to shareholders funds, with deficits below cost, less any related depreciation, included in attributable profit.
Following the introduction of FRS 15 in 2000, the revalued book amounts are retained without subsequent revaluation subject to the requirement to test for impairment.
Depreciation is charged on the cost or revalued amounts of freehold and long-leasehold properties over their estimated useful economic lives.
Computer software developed or obtained for internal use The Groups general policy is to write-off such expenditure as incurred AICPA Statement of Position SOP 98-1 requires certain costs except where the software is required to facilitate the use of new incurred in respect of software for internal use to be capitalised and hardware.
Capitalised amounts are recorded as tangible fixed assets subsequently amortised over its useful life.
Capitalised amounts are and amortised over the useful life of the hardware.
198 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued UK GAAP US GAAP Derivatives Derivatives used for hedging purposes are measured on an accruals SFAS 133 requires all derivatives to be recorded at fair value as basis consistent with the assets, liabilities, positions or future cash adjusted by the requirements of EITF 02-03.
If certain conditions are flows being hedged.
The gains and losses on these instruments arising met then the derivative may be designated as a fair value hedge, cash from changes in fair value are not recognised in the profit and loss flow hedge or hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net account immediately as they arise.
Such gains are either not investment in a foreign subsidiary.
The change in value of the fair recognised in the balance sheet or are recognised and carried forward.
value hedge is recorded in income along with the change in fair value When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or loss is recognised in of the hedged asset or liability.
The change in value of a cash flow the profit and loss account at the same time as the hedged item.
hedge is recorded in other comprehensive income and reclassified to income as the hedged cash flows affect earnings.
The change in the Derivatives entered into as trading transactions, together with any value of a net investment hedge is recorded in the currency translation associated hedging, are measured at fair value, and the resultant reserve and only released to income when the underlying investment profits and losses are included in dealing profits.
With a limited number of exceptions, Barclays has chosen not Products which contain embedded derivatives are valued with to update the documentation of derivative hedges to comply fully with reference to the total product inclusive of the derivative element.
Certain terms and conditions of hybrid contracts which themselves would be standalone derivatives are bifurcated from the underlying hybrid contract and fair valued if they are not clearly and closely related to the contract in which they are contained.
These are referred to as embedded derivatives.
Fair value of securities Positions in investment debt securities and investment equity shares Under SFAS 115, debt and marketable equity securities are classified are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
The cost of dated as one of three types.
Trading securities are carried at fair value with investment securities is adjusted for the amortisation of premiums changes in fair value taken through profit and loss: held to maturity or discount on purchase over the period to redemption.
Investment debt securities are carried at amortised cost where there is the ability securities are those intended for use on a continuing basis by and intent to hold to maturity: available for sale securities that are the Group.
held for continuing use in the business are carried at fair value with movements in fair value recorded in shareholders equity.
Declines in fair value below cost that are deemed other-than-temporary impairment are recognised on the held to maturity and available for sale categories and are reflected in the profit and loss account.
Non-marketable securities held by investment companies are carried at fair value with movements in fair value recorded in net income.
Foreign exchange on investment debt securities Movements resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates Under EITF 96-15, as amended by SFAS 133, the change in value of are reflected in the profit and loss account.
available for sale debt securities as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates is reflected in shareholders equity.
Loan origination Fee income relating to the origination of loans is recognised in the SFAS 91 requires loan origination fees and incremental direct costs of profit and loss account to match the cost over the period in which loan origination to be deferred and amortised over the life of the loan the service is provided, together with a reasonable profit margin.
as an adjustment to interest income.
The cost of mortgage incentives, which comprise cashbacks and interest discounts, are charged to the profit and loss account as areduction to interest receivable as incurred.
199 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued UK GAAP US GAAP Consolidation Entities should be consolidated when they are under the control of Under US GAAP, the Group determines whether it has a controlling the reporting entity.
Under FRS 2, control is the ability to direct the financial interest in an entity by initially evaluating whether the entity financial and operating policies of the entity with a view to gaining is a variable interest entity VIE, voting interest entity, or a qualifying economic benefit and may be exercised through majority voting rights special purpose entity QSPE.
In addition, under FRS 5, entities which give rise to Under FIN 46-R, a controlling financial interest in a variable interest benefits that are, in substance, no different from those that would entity is present where an enterprise has a variable interest, or a arise were the entity a subsidiary are included in the consolidated combination of variable interests, that will absorb the majority of the accounts.
entitys expected losses, receive a majority of the entitys expected residual returns, or both.
The enterprise with a controlling financial interest is the primary beneficiary and is required to consolidate the VIE.
Voting interest entities are evaluated for consolidation in accordance with ARB 51.
ARB 51 states that the usual condition for a controlling financial interest in an entity is ownership of a majority voting interest.
In accordance with SFAS 140 and FIN 46-R, QSPEs are not consolidated.
Securitisations Where undertakings have issued debt securities or entered into funding Transfers of financial assets deemed as sales under SFAS 140 are arrangements with lenders through special-purpose entities in order to derecognised and, where appropriate, a servicing asset liability and finance specific loans and advances to customers, the balances are retained interest are recognised.
The asset liability is amortised over either accounted for on the basis of linked presentation or through the period in which the benefits are expected to be received.
separate recognition of the gross assets and related funding, in accordance with FRS 5.
The special-purpose entities are treated as quasi-subsidiaries and are consolidated in accordance with FRS 5.
Guarantees Under UK GAAP, a provision will be set up only if it is probable that a Under FIN 45, guarantees issued or modified from 1st January 2003 transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
are recognised at inception at fair value as a liability on the balance Where this is not the case, no liability is recognised.
Revenue recognition The Group recognises revenue on both external and internal Under US GAAP, there are several sources of guidance on income transactions executed on an arms-length basis in accordance with recognition including SAB 101.
The application of this guidance in current market practice, FRS 5 and appropriate industry SORPs.
certain circumstances may lead to an alternative recognition profile, particularly the elimination of intra-Group transactions.
Dividend payable Dividends declared after the period end are recorded in the period to Dividends are recorded in the period in which they are declared.
Classification of debt and equity and related translation differences Under UK GAAP, the Reserve Capital Instruments are classified as Under US GAAP, the Reserve Capital Instruments are classified as liabilities.
equity instruments and are translated at the rate ruling on date of issue.
Certain debt issuances, including Reserve Capital Instruments, are treated as hedges of foreign operations and exchange differences are Other debt issuances designated as hedges under UK GAAP are taken directly to reserves.
similarly treated under US GAAP in the instances where the SFAS 133 hedge accounting criteria are met.
200 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued UK GAAP US GAAP Taxation Profit before tax and the tax charge for the year includes tax at the Income before tax and the tax charge do not include such adjustments effective rate on certain transactions including the shareholders for tax.
interest in the long-term assurance fund.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS is net income per weighted average The basic EPS under US GAAP differs to the extent that income under share in issue.
Diluted EPS reflects the effect that existing options US GAAP differs.
In addition, the diluted EPS differs as the increased would have on the basic EPS if they were to be exercised, by increasing shares are reduced by the number of shares that could be bought the number of ordinary shares.
using the average market price over the year with the assumed exercise proceeds actual proceeds arising on exercise plus unamortised compensation costs, where appropriate.
Any options that are antidilutive are excluded from this calculation.
Acceptances Acceptances are bills that the drawee has agreed to pay.
They are not Acceptances and the related customer liabilities are recorded within recorded within the balance sheet.
Transfer and servicing of financial assets Under FRS 5, where a transaction involving a previously recognised Under SFAS 140, control passes where the following criteria are met: asset transfers to others a all significant rights or other access a the assets are isolated from the transferor the seller, i. e. they are to benefits relating to that asset and b all significant exposure beyond the reach of the transferor, even in bankruptcy or other to the risks inherent in those benefits, the entire asset should cease receivership: b the transferee the buyer has the right free of any to be recognised.
conditions that constrain it from taking advantage of the right to pledge or exchange the assets, and c the transferor does not maintain effective control over the transferred assets.
Transfers of assets not deemed as sales cause a gross-up of the balance sheet to show the assets transferred as remaining on the balance sheet.
In addition, non-cash collateral received on certain stock lending transactions results in a balance sheet gross-up under the provisions of SFAS 140.
Netting Under FRS 5, items should be aggregated into a single item where Under FASB interpretation No.
FIN 39, netting is only permitted there is a right to insist on net settlement and the debit balance where there is a legal right of set-off and an intention to settle on a matures no later than the credit balance.
In addition, under FIN 41, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements may only be netted where they have the same explicit settlement date specified at the inception of the agreement.
Netting presentation differences exist between UK and US GAAP in relation to repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, securities lending and borrowing agreements, receivables and payables in respect of unsettled trades, long and short securities, and cash collateral held against derivatives.
Investment contracts In accordance with FRS 5, certain products offered to institutional Where the legal form of these products is similar to insurance pension funds are accounted for as investment products when the contracts, they are accounted for in accordance with SFAS 97. substance of the investment is that of managed funds.
The assets and Accordingly, the assets and liabilities are recorded on the related liabilities are excluded from the consolidated balance sheet.
201 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued UK GAAP US GAAP Own shares The number of own shares held in the ESOP trust, which are included Under SFAS 123, the basic awards under ESAS are fully vested at the in the Groups accounts, is reduced to the extent that the shares have date of grant, and no adjustment is made for forfeitures.
Consequently, vested in accordance with GAAP.
the number of own shares held in the ESOP trust which are included in the Groups accounts is lower.
The number of shares which have vested under the ESAS plan has been reduced for the anticipated level of forfeitures.
Cash flow statement The cash flow statement is prepared according to the requirements of The cash flow statement for US GAAP is prepared under SFAS 95, FRS 1 revised.
It defines cash as cash and balances at central banks as amended by SFAS 104.
This defines cash as inclusive of cash and loans and advances to banks repayable on demand.
equivalents which are short-term highly liquid investments that are both readily convertible into known amounts of cash and are so near maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates.
Generally only investments with original maturities of three months or less are included as cash equivalents.
The two statements differ with regard to the classification of items within the cash flow statement and with regard to the definition of cash.
Classification Classification under FRS 1 revised under SFAS 95 104 Dividends received Returns on investment Operating activities and servicing of finance Dividends paid equity Equity dividends paid Financing activities Tax paid Taxation Operating activities Net change in loans and advances, including finance lease receivables Operating activities Investing activities Net change in deposits and debt securities in issue Operating activities Financing activities 202 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued Applicable developments in US GAAP FIN 46-R: Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB issued FASB Interpretation No.
46 R Revised December 2003 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No.
51 FIN 46-R. FIN 46-R is an update of FASB Interpretation No.
46 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No.
51 FIN 46 and contains different implementation dates based on the types of entities subject to the standard and based on whether a company had already adopted FIN 46.
The Group originally adopted FIN 46 for all Variable Interest Entities VIEs created or acquired after 31st January 2003 during the year ended 31st December 2003.
The Group has adopted FIN 46-R for all VIEs, including those created or acquired prior to 31st January 2003 from 1st January 2004.
The impact of the adoption of FIN 46-R in 2004 was a net credit to pre-tax income of 138m, resulting from the release of the majority of the shareholders equity adjustment for leasing-lessor to income 123m offset by an additional adjustment under US GAAP from differing consolidation treatment of certain entities which gave rise to a pre-tax credit of 15m included in the consolidation adjustment.
For additional information on VIEs see Note 52 on pages 216 and 217.
SFAS 150: Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
The Statement sets out the accounting for certain financial instruments that, under previous guidance, issuers could account for as equity and requires that these instruments be classified as liabilities in statements of financial position.
The Group adopted the Statement prospectively for financial instruments entered into or modified after 31st May 2003 during the year ended 31st December 2003.
It has adopted the Statement for all other financial instruments from 1st January 2004.
Adoption did not have a material effect on the Groups results of operations or financial condition as determined under US GAAP for the year ended and as of 31st December 2004.
SOP 03-01: Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Non traditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts The Statement of Position 03-01 SOP 03-01 provides guidance on the classification and valuation of long-duration contract liabilities, the accounting for sales inducements and separate account presentation and valuation.
The Group adopted SOP 03-01 from 1st January 2004.
Adoption did not have a material impact on the Groups results of operations or financial condition as determined under US GAAP for the year ended and as of 31st December 2004.
SFAS 132: Employers disclosures about pensions and other post-retirement benefits In December 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No.
132 revised 2003, Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Post-Retirement Benefits.
132 revises employers disclosures about pension plans and other post-retirement benefits by requiring additional disclosures such as descriptions of the types of plan assets, investment strategies, measurement dates, plan obligations, cash flows and components of net periodic benefit costs recognised during interim periods.
The statement does not change the measurement or recognition of the plans.
The additional disclosures for plans established in the UK were required for the year ended 31st December 2003.
The remaining disclosures are required for years ending after 15th June 2004 and therefore included in Note 52 c below.
SOP 03-03: Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer The Statement of Position 03-03 SOP 03-03 addresses accounting for differences between the contractual cash flows and cash flows expected to be collected from an investors initial investment in loans or debt securities acquired in a transfer if those differences are attributable to credit quality.
This SOP is effective for loans acquired in accounting periods beginning after 15th December 2004.
Barclays is currently assessing the impact of this SOP on its US GAAP reconciliations.
SAB 105: Application of Accounting Principles to Loans Commitments In March 2004, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
The SAB addresses the initial recognition and measurement of loan commitments that meet the definition of a derivative.
The SAB is effective for all applicable loan commitments entered into, or substantially modified, on or after 1st April 2004.
EITF Issue 03-01: The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments The EITF Issue 03-01 EITF 03-01 provides guidance on recognising other-than-temporary impairments on securities classified as either available for sale or held to maturity under SFAS 115 and for investments accounted for under the cost method.
In September 2004, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-01-1 which delayed the effective date of EITF 03-01 until the FASB staff addresses additional measurement issues affecting the consensus.
203 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued 2004 2003 2002 Note m m m Attributable profit of Barclays PLC Group UK GAAP 3,268 2,744 2,230 Goodwill a 246 272 237 Intangible assets b 141 175 64 Pensions c 180 139 187 Post-retirement benefits c 12 27 18 Leasing lessor 120 21 7 Leasing lessee 10 Deferred tax d 32 Compensation arrangements e 15 74 82 Shareholders interest in the long-term assurance fund f 146 6 109 Provisions for restructuring of business l 16 22 Extinguishment of liabilities 32 135 159 Revaluation of property 11 75 Business combinations k 13 4 206 Internal use software m 47 14 207 Derivatives o 364 1,102 553 Fair value of securities h 80 374 276 Foreign exchange on available for sale securities n 428 443 152 Loan origination 66 114 31 Consolidation p 15 Securitisations q 21 130 Guarantees t 9 8 Revenue recognition 180 Tax effect on the above UK US GAAP reconciling items 2 395 17 Net income US GAAP 3,032 1,740 2,476 Barclays PLC Group Note p pp Basic earnings per 25p ordinary share g 47.5 26.8 37.4 Diluted earnings per 25p ordinary share g 46.8 26.5 37.2 2004 2003 Note m m Shareholders funds UK GAAP 17,417 16,473 Prior year adjustment UK GAAP y 99 17,417 16,374 Goodwill a 812 570 Intangible assets b 452 315 Pensions c 1,249 988 Post-retirement benefits c 11 23 Leasing lessor 25 145 Compensation arrangements e 45 1 Shareholders interest in the long-term assurance fund f 621 555 Extinguishment of liabilities 326 294 Revaluation of property i 212 224 Internal use software m 20 67 Derivatives o 78 341 Fair value of securities h 491 876 Dividend payable 1,011 883 Loan origination 89 23 Consolidation p 8 Securitisations q 151 130 Guarantees t 17 8 Revenue recognition 180 Translation differences 260 Own shares 45 Tax effect on the above UK US GAAP reconciling items 473 165 Shareholders equity US GAAP 16,953 16,830 Selected financial data, adjusted from UK GAAP to reflect the main differences from US GAAP, is given on page 239.
204 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued The following table provides the Groups balance sheet on a UK presentation, incorporating only those adjustments required under US GAAP that are discussed on pages 196 to 202.
2004 2003 m m Cash and balances at central banks 48,855 50,518 Items in course of collection from other banks 1,772 2,006 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 5,002 5,359 Loans and advances to banks 57,380 48,830 Loans and advances to customers 279,438 229,562 Debt and equity securities 151,242 112,450 Interests in associated undertakings and joint ventures 448 428 Intangible and tangible fixed assets 6,537 6,377 Other assets including prepayments and accrued income 35,128 29,263 Retail life-fund assets attributable to policyholders 68,778 57,176 Total assets 654,580 541,969 Deposits by banks 139,461 127,591 Customer accounts 235,599 188,218 Items in course of collection to other banks 1,205 1,286 Debt securities in issue 78,989 54,647 Other liabilities including accruals and deferred income 97,826 81,637 Provisions for liabilities and charges deferred taxation 575 636 other provisions for liabilities and charges 1,750 1,380 Subordinated liabilities 10,693 10,634 Minority interests equity and non-equity 2,751 1,934 Shareholders equity 16,953 16,830 Retail life-fund liabilities attributable to policyholders 68,778 57,176 Total liabilities and shareholders funds 654,580 541,969 Segmental analysis of the Group is provided in Note 48, Segmental analysis.
The significant differences for each segment under US GAAP are in respect of netting adjustments as disclosed in Note 52 w, the treatment of insurance products, the consolidation of certain entities and securitisation adjustment.
The impact of these adjustments is to increase the total assets of Barclays Capital by 46,750m 2003: 29,672m, increase the total assets of Barclays Global Investors by 68,534m 2003: 58,062m and decrease the total assets of Barclaycard by 3,122m 2003: 2,350m.
a Goodwill During the year, the Group has reviewed the carrying value of its goodwill based on expected future earnings and considered that there was no impairment to be recognised, with the following exceptions.
Goodwill recorded by the Group under US GAAP includes amounts related to interests acquired following the restructuring of businesses to which the Group had previously advanced funds.
During 2004, the Group identified an excess in the carrying value of the reporting units over their implied fair value and recorded an impairment charge of 56m 2003: nil.
The impairment was based on revised cash flow projections which were lower than forecasted due to going concern issues within these businesses.
Further, a partial write-down of 12m 2003: nil was recorded in relation to a Group entity acquired prior to 1st January 1998 in respect of which the goodwill has been written off to reserves under UK GAAP.
The impairment was due to achieved cash flows being lower than those required to support the carrying value of goodwill.
The current carrying value of goodwill for US GAAP purposes has been allocated to the reportable business clusters of the Group: Reallocation At beginning between Exchange of year clusters Additions Disposals Impairment and other 2004 m m m m m m m UK Retail Banking 2,692 2,692 UK Business Banking 63 17 1 17 62 Private Clients 546 2 548 International 461 8 16 12 19 454 Barclaycard 245 90 1 336 Barclays Capital 81 39 42 Barclays Global Investors 80 8 47 3 116 Head office functions and other operations 10 10 4,178 172 1 68 21 4,260 205 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued b Intangible assets Core Purchased Licences Merchant deposit Customer credit card and other credit card intangible Brand lists relationship contracts partnerships Software 2004 m m m m m m m m Cost or valuation At beginning of year 521 33 184 112 19 12 881 Additions 22 1 37 60 Exchange other 5 5 Cost carried forward 521 33 179 134 20 37 12 936 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At beginning of year 211 9 55 39 1 315 Current year charge 75 20 17 22 5 4 143 Exchange other 4 4 Amortisation carried forward 286 29 68 61 6 4 454 Net book value 2004 235 4 111 73 14 37 8 482 Weighted average amortisation period for additions months 120 45 60 The amortisation expense for the net carrying amount of intangible assets is estimated to be 134m in 2005, 131m in 2006, 95m in 2007, 33m in 2008 and 28m in 2009. c Pensions and post-retirement benefits The disclosures below reflect the amendments to the requirements of SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 arising from SFAS 132 revised 2003 Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Post-retirement Benefits.
The excess of pension plan assets over the projected benefit obligation, as at the transition date, was recognised as a reduction of pension expense on a prospective basis over approximately 15 years, which ended in 2003.
The provisions of US GAAP have been applied to the main UK pension scheme, the UK Retirement Fund UKRF based on a valuation date of 30th September 2004.
Consequently the 500m contribution made to the UKRF in December 2003 is included in the US GAAP analysis of the plan assets and the 250m contribution made to the UKRF in December 2004 is excluded from the US GAAP analysis of plan assets.
The following analysis relates to the UKRF 1964 Pension Scheme, Retirement Investment Scheme, Pension Investment Plan, afterwork and the Career Average Section which makes up approximately 95% of all the Groups schemes in terms of assets and actuarial liabilities.
Under the terms of an agreement between the Bank, the Trustees of the Woolwich Pension Fund WPF and the Trustees of the UKRF, the final transfer of the liabilities of the WPF into the UKRF was made on 1st May 2004, following which the remaining 56.2m assets in the WPF were transferred to the UKRF and a special contribution of 2m was paid into the UKRF.
The components of the pension and post-retirements expense where an actuarial basis is appropriate which arise under US GAAP are as follows: 2004 2003 2002  retirement retirement Pensions benefits Pensions benefits Pensions benefits m m m m m m Components of net periodic benefit cost Service cost 319 1 292 1 275 1 Interest cost 692 5 630 5 624 5 Expected return on plan assets 738 664 807 Amortisation of transition adjustment 12 1 23 1 Curtailment and termination benefits 76 2 Recognised net actuarial deficit 27 2 33 2 1 Net periodic benefit cost 300 8 279 9 145 10 For measurement purposes, the calculation assumes a 10.6% and 5% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered medical benefits and dental benefits respectively for pensioners in the US at the end of the 2004 year 12% and 5% at the end of 2003.
The rate for 2005 is assumed to be 10% and to decrease 1% annually to 5% in 2010 and remain at that level thereafter.
206 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued c Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued For pensioners in the UK the same assumption for the increase in the per capita cost of covered medical benefits is adopted for the 2004 year-end as in the US 5.6% annual rate as at the end of 2003.
A one percentage point change in assumed health care trend rates would have the following effects for 2004: 1% increase 1% decrease m m Effect on total of service and interest cost components 1 1 Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation 18 15 The following table presents the estimated funded status of the pension schemes and post-retirement benefits the latter are unfunded under US GAAP: 2004 2003 2002  retirement retirement Pensions benefits Pensions benefits Pensions benefits m m m m m m Change in benefit obligation Benefit obligation at beginning of period 13,331 85 12,296 79 10,789 70 Service cost 319 1 292 1 275 1 Interest cost 692 5 630 5 624 5 Plan participants contributions 26 17 6 Curtailment and termination benefits 76 Prior period service cost 1 2 Actuarial loss 843 16 559 8 941 12 Benefits paid 445 4 465 5 415 4 Exchange and other 3 3 5 Benefit obligation at end of period 14,767 100 13,331 85 12,296 79 Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period 10,980 10,152 11,135 Actual return on plan assets 1,284 1,102 618 Employer contribution transfers 511 4 174 5 44 4 Plan participants contributions 26 17 6 Benefits paid 445 4 465 5 415 4 Fair value of plan assets at end of period 12,356 10,980 10,152 Funded status deficit 2,411 100 2,351 85 2,144 79 Unrecognised transition amount 5 6 12 8 Unrecognised net actuarial loss 1,948 46 1,678 31 1,590 24 Unrecognised prior service cost 3 2 Accrued benefit cost 460 49 671 48 566 47 207 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued c Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The minimum liability, prior period service cost and other comprehensive income as at the Measurement Date for the pension schemes is shown in the table below: 2004 2003 UKRF UKRF WPF m m m Scheme assets at market value 12,356 10,943 37 Accumulated Benefit Obligation ABO 13,109 11,749 31 Minimum liability excess of ABO over market value of assets 753 806 6 Accrued pension cost 460 595 76 Minimum additional liability 293 211 Prior period service cost 3 2 Accumulated other comprehensive income 290 209 A long-term strategy has been set for the pension plan asset allocation which comprises a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other appropriate assets.
This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns, and some asset classes will be more volatile than others.
One of the factors in the choice of a long-term strategy is to ensure that the investments are adequately diversified.
The managers are permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from the long-term strategy within control ranges agreed with the Trustee from time to time.
The table below shows the percentage of the fair value of each major category as at the measurement date.
UKRF defined benefits only Target 2004 30 9 04 30 9 03 %%% Equity securities 51 48 50 Debt securities 37 38 36 Property 12 11 11 All other assets 33 Total 100 100 100 The expected return on assets is determined by calculating a total return estimate based on a weighted average of estimated returns for each asset class.
Asset class returns are estimated using current and projected economic and market factors such as inflation, credit spreads and equity risk premiums.
Employer cash contributions for the year to 31st December 2005 for the UKRF scheme is expected to be 352m.
Estimated future benefit payments The following benefit payments, which reflect future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid: Postretirement Pensions benefits m m 2005 407 1 2006 417 1 2007 431 2 2008 446 2 2009 461 2 Years 2010 2014 2,704 11 208 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued c Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for pensions are as follows: 2004 2003 2002 % %% Discount rate 5.4 5.3 6.0 Rate of compensation increase 4.1 3.8 4.0 Expected long-term return on plan assets 6.8 6.8 7.5 The weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for pensions are as follows: As at 31st December 2004 2003 2002 % %% Discount rate 5.6 5.4 5.3 Rate of compensation increase 4.3 4.1 3.8 Details of the post-retirement health care expense under UK GAAP are given in Note 49 to the accounts.
The accounting for the post-retirement benefits charge assumed a discount rate of 6.25% 2003: 6.25%, 2002: 6.75% for US benefits and 5.6% 2003: 5.4%, 2002: 5.3% for UK benefits on a weighted average basis.
The additional pensions cost of 180m 2003: 139m, 2002: 187m includes a 8m credit 2003: 8m, 2002: 8m relating to amortisation of an additional fair value adjustment under US GAAP.
This is being amortised over the expected life of the relevant pension liability.
d Deferred tax In accordance with SFAS No.
109 Accounting for Income Taxes, the components of the net US GAAP deferred tax liability are as follows: 2004 2003 m m Deferred tax liabilities: Leasing transactions 759 739 In respect of UK US GAAP reconciling items 224 336 Other 630 592 Total deferred tax liabilities 1,613 1,667 Deferred tax assets: Specific allowances 26 25 General allowance 226 252 Tax losses 299 236 Capital allowances 107 90 In respect of UK US GAAP reconciling items 387 311 Other 210 224 Total deferred tax assets before valuation allowance 1,255 1,138 Less: valuation allowance 217 107 Deferred tax assets less valuation allowance 1,038 1,031 Net deferred tax liability under US GAAP 575 636 The main components of the tax charge attributable to continuing operations are shown in Note 8 to the accounts on pages 143 and 144.
Included in the tax effect on net income of UK US GAAP reconciling items for 2004 is a credit amount of 19m relating to deferred tax 2003: 4m, 2002: 59m.
The valuation allowance relates to the Groups capital losses and unrelieved overseas tax losses.
These assets will be recognised in the future when it becomes likely that they will be utilised.
209 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued e Compensation arrangements The additional US GAAP charge arising from the application of SFAS 123 in respect of the fair value of options granted since 1995 is 79m 2003: 73m, 2002: 82m.
A net credit of 50m 2003: nil relates to the write-back of National Insurance liability which will be recognised on exercise of the relevant options.
The net credit with respect to other deferred compensation plans is 14m 2003: charge of 1m, 2002: nil.
The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, Save As You Earn SAYE, Incentive Share Option Plan ISOP, the BGI Equity Ownership Plan BGI EOP, Executive Share Award Scheme ESAS, the Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan Woolwich ESOP and the Woolwich SAYE scheme fall within the scope of SFAS 123.
Analysis of the movement in the number and weighted average exercise price of options is set out below.
ESOS a SAYE a Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
price 2004 2003 2004 2003 Outstanding at beginning of year 70,967 51,515 Granted in the year 42,885 34,735 Exercised in the year 12,071 13,111 Forfeited or expired in the year 1,497 2,172 Outstanding at end of year 100,284 70,967 Notes a Options granted over Barclays PLC shares.
b Options granted over BGI UK Holdings Limited shares.
210 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued e Compensation arrangements continued The range of exercise prices, weighted average fair values at the date of grant and the weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2004 2003 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Exercise average Weighted average Exercise average Weighted average price exercise average remaining price exercise average remaining range price fair value life range price fair value life Years Years a ESOS 1.76-4.45 4.13 1.13 4 1.76-4.45 4.11 1.14 4 a SAYE 1.57-4.11 3.69 1.84 4 1.57-4.11 3.59 1.92 3 a ISOP 3.26-5.62 4.59 1.71 8 3.26-5.62 4.56 1.71 8 b BGI EOP 6.11-20.11 12.74 4.12 8 6.11-10.92 9.51 3.23 8 a Woolwich SAYE 3.08-3.37 3.32 2.75 5 3.08-3.37 3.34 2.60 1 a Woolwich ESOP 3.29-4.22 3.80 2.68 5 3.29-4.22 3.80 2.69 6 a c ESAS 4.15 3 3.99 3 Fair values for the ISOP, ESOS, SAYE, the Woolwich ESOP, the Woolwich SAYE and the BGI EOP are calculated at the date of grant using the appropriate option pricing model.
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2004 are as follows: b ISOP SAYE BGI EOP Risk-free interest rate 4.65% 5.12% 2.81% Expected life years 555 Expected volatility 34% 25% 25% ESAS provides nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant.
Consequently the fair value of these awards is the market value at that date.
211 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued e Compensation arrangements continued The range, weighted average exercise price and number of options exercisable at the year end are as follows: Weighted average exercise Number of price options Exercise Price Range exercisable a ESOS 1.50 2.49 1.90 87,024 2.50 3.49 3.47 97,176 3.50 4.49 4.19 4,362,014 a SAYE 2.50 3.49 3.17 268,152 3.50 4.49 3.78 1,141,460 a ISOP 4.50 5.49 5.31 9,929,900 b BGI EOP 6.00 13.99 9.67 3,482,272 a c ESAS 10,144,101 a Woolwich SAYE 3.50 4.49 3.32 164,040 a Woolwich ESOP 2.50 3.49 3.29 422,648 3.50 4.49 3.92 1,878,016 Notes a Options granted over Barclays PLC shares.
The expected dividends for all schemes are assumed to grow in line with the expected increases in share prices for the industry sector until exercise.
The ESOS is a long-term incentive scheme and was available by invitation to certain senior executives of the Group with grants usually made annually.
Options were issued at the market price at the date of the grant without any discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the Scheme, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date.
No further awards are made under ESOS.
Eligible employees in the UK may participate in the SAYE.
Under this Scheme, employees may enter into contracts to save up to 250 per month and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five or seven years, have the option to use these savings to acquire shares in the Company at a discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
The discount is currently 20% of the market price at the date the options were granted.
The ISOP was introduced to replace the ESOS.
It is open by invitation to the employees and Directors of Barclays PLC.
Options are granted at the market price at the date of grant calculated in accordance with the rules of the Plan, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date.
The final number of shares over which the option may be exercised will be determined by reference to set performance criteria.
The number of shares under option represents the expected number that will be exercised.
The BGI Equity Ownership Plan is extended to senior employees of BGI.
The exercise price of the options is determined by the Remuneration Committee of Barclays PLC based on the fair value as determined by an independent appraiser.
The options are granted over shares in BGI UK Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
Options are normally not exercisable until vesting, with a third of the options generally becoming exercisable at each anniversary of grant.
Options lapse ten years after grant.
At 31st December 2004 7.6 million 2003: 13.5 million options were outstanding under the terms of the BGI Equity Ownership Plan enabling certain members of staff to subscribe for shares in BGI UK Holdings Limited between 2005 and 2014 at prices between 6.11 and 20.11.
For certain employees of the Group an element of their annual bonus is in the form of a deferred award of Barclays PLC shares under ESAS.
The total value of the bonus made to the employee of which ESAS is an element is dependent upon the business unit, Group and individual employee performance.
The ESAS element of the annual bonus must be held for at least three years and is subject to potential forfeit if the individual resigns and commences work with a competitor business.
f Shareholders interest in the long-term assurance fund The adjustment to US GAAP net income in 2004 is 146 m 2003: 6 m, 2002: 109m.
The difference primarily reflects favourable persistency, mortality and investment experience recognised in UK profits that cannot be recognised in US GAAP net income and the impact of SOP 03-01.
212 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued g Earnings per share 2004 2003 2002 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Per-share average Per-share average Per-share Income share no.
amount m in millions pence m in millions pence m in millions pence Basic EPS US GAAP net income available to ordinary shareholders 3,032 6,381 47.5 1,740 6,483 26.8 2,476 6,626 37.4 Effect of dilutive securities: Employee share options 34 26 40 Other schemes 65 61 6 Diluted EPS 3,032 6,480 46.8 1,740 6,570 26.5 2,476 6,660 37.2 Of the total number of shares under option at year-end, the following were not included in the dilution calculation because of the circumstances prevailing at year-end: 2004 2003 2002 in millions in millions in millions Number of options 216 224 181 Certain incentive plan shares have been excluded from the calculation of the basic EPS.
These shares are subsequently brought into the diluted earnings per share calculation called Other schemes above.
h Fair value of securities Unlisted investment equity securities are outside the scope of SFAS 115 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.
Where the securities are held by an investment company within the Group, the securities are carried at fair value.
The unlisted equity securities have a cost of 1,194m at 31st December 2004 2003: 944m, with a fair value of 1,333m 2003: 1,109m.
All long investment securities are classified as being available for sale unless the Group has a clear intention and ability to hold them to maturity.
Other securities are classified as trading securities see Note 16.
The following table shows the gross unrealised losses and fair value, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealised loss position at 31st December 2004.
Less than 12 months 12 months or more Total Unrealised Unrealised Unrealised Fair value losses Fair value losses Fair value losses Description of securities m m m m m m Other government 488 5 127 3 615 8 Mortgage-backed securities 6,922 31 347 1 7,269 32 Corporate issuers 1,100 1 421 1,521 1 Other issuers 1 1 Total 8,511 37 895 4 9,406 41 The Group performs a review of each individual investment security on a regular basis to determine whether any evidence of impairment exists.
This review considers factors such as the duration and amount at which fair value is below cost, the credit standing and prospects of the issuer, and the intent and ability of the Group to hold the investment security for such sufficient time to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value.
Under US GAAP, 177 investment debt securities had unrealised losses as at 31st December 2004.
Based on a review performed at 31st December 2004, management believes that the unrealised losses are temporary in nature.
The unrealised losses are due to market movements in interest rates.
The credit quality of the bond issuers remains strong with 100% rated as investment grade or higher and the Group has the ability and intent to hold these positions until recovery.
213 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued i Revaluation of property In 1990, 449m of property revaluation reserve was capitalised by the issue of bonus shares.
j Loan impairment and disclosure SFAS 114 applies only to impaired loans, the measurement of which is based upon the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market value, or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.
Smaller balance homogeneous consumer loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment are outside the scope of SFAS 114, as are debt securities and leases.
At 31st December 2004, the element of impaired loans outside the scope of SFAS 114 amounted to 2,599m 2003: 2,605m.
In accordance with SFAS 114, the Groups total impaired loans being non-performing, less impaired loans outside the scope of SFAS 114, amount to 1,386m at 31st December 2004 2003: 1,700m.
Credit risk provisions of 721m, estimated in accordance with SFAS 114, were held against these loans 2003: 762m.
The average level of such impaired lendings in 2004 was 1,736m 2003: 1,832m.
Where cash received represents the realisation of security, or there is doubt regarding the recovery of a loan, such receipts are treated as repayments of the loan principal.
Otherwise, cash received in respect of impaired loans is recognised as interest income.
Estimated interest income which was recognised in 2004 on impaired loans within the scope of SFAS 114 was 24m 2003: 18m.
SFAS 114 modifies the accounting for in-substance foreclosure, in that collateralised debts where the Group takes physical possession of the collateral, regardless of formal insolvency procedures, would be reclassified as if the collateral had been acquired for cash.
At 31st December 2004, under US GAAP, the amount of collateral recorded at the lower of the book value of the debt or the fair value of the collateral that would be reclassified as other real estate owned was 7m 2003: 11m and as debt and equity instruments was 34m 2003: 48m.
Mortgage loans of 3,482m are included within loans and advances to customers which are held with the intention of resale 2003: nil.
During the year 4,762m of loans were sold 2003: 645m generating a net profit of 31m 2003: net loss of 10m.
k Business combination In 2002, Barclays and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce completed the combination of their retail, corporate and offshore banking operations and created FirstCaribbean International Bank.
Under both UK and US GAAP, Barclays accounts for the resulting interest as an associate.
The transaction generated a gain of 206m under both UK and US GAAP, the gain being recorded through the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses for UK GAAP under UITF 31 but in the income statement account under US GAAP APB 29 and EITF 01-02.
The net assets of the business transferred by Barclays to the new entity were not materially different under US GAAP.
In 2004, an adjustment of 13m 2003: 4 m was made to the gain of 206m, also recognised under UK GAAP in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
l Provisions for restructuring of business During 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Group has continued its existing programmes to reduce the workforce.
Costs under these programmes, in all three years, have primarily been incurred in UK Retail Banking, UK Business Banking and Private Clients and International.
The restructuring programmes are largely focused on activities within the UK involving a reshaping of the Groups operations through the centralisation of core processes and the application of new technologies.
The Group does not currently have any restructuring programmes which have to be accounted under SFAS 146 Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
214 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued m Internal use software 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m m Additional US GAAP shareholders funds brought forward 67 81 288 Expenditure to be capitalised under US GAAP 23 74 60 Amortisation 20 64 136 Write-offs 50 24 131 Charge to US GAAP net income 47 14 207 Additional US GAAP shareholders funds carried forward 20 67 81 A review of costs capitalised in previous years and useful lives assigned is undertaken annually.
Capitalised costs which are no longer considered recoverable are written off.
n Foreign exchange on available for sale securities Within individual legal entities Barclays holds securities in a number of different currencies which are classified as available for sale.
In general, no foreign exchange exposure arises from this because, although the value of the assets changes in sterling terms according to the exchange rate, there is an identical offsetting change in the sterling value of the related funding.
Under UK GAAP both the assets and the liabilities are generally translated at closing exchange rates and the differences between historical book value and current value are reflected in the profit and loss account.
Under US GAAP, the change in value of the investments is taken directly to reserves while the offsetting change in sterling terms of the borrowing is taken to the income statement.
A similar difference arises where foreign currency assets are covered using forward contracts but where the Group does not manage these hedges to conform with the detailed US designation requirements.
The impact of this requirement is to transfer net foreign exchange gains or losses on currency securities from net income to other comprehensive income.
No difference between the Groups UK and US GAAP shareholders equity arises from this transfer.
o Derivatives SFAS 133 requires all derivatives to be recorded at fair value.
If certain conditions are met then the derivative may be designated as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge or hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Barclays has chosen not to update the documentation of derivative hedges to fully comply with the requirements of SFAS 133 and therefore, with a limited number of exceptions, economic hedge relationships do not qualify for treatment as hedges under US GAAP.
Accordingly, adjustments in current or past periods to US GAAP net income in respect of derivatives which qualify for hedge accounting under UK GAAP, are not necessarily indicative of the magnitude or direction of such adjustments to US GAAP net income in subsequent periods.
The adjustment to net income comprises the following elements: 2004 2003 2002 m m m a Mark to market adjustment 586 761 548 Embedded derivatives 182 194 109 Deferred gains and losses 10 46 12 Amortisation of fair value hedge 10 140 156 Reclassification of gains and losses from Other comprehensive income to net income 40 39 40 364 1,102 553 Note a EITF 02-03 was clarified in November 2002 to require the measurement of the derivative fair values based on quoted market prices, or in the absence of quoted market prices, valuation techniques with observable inputs from active markets.
For all Over The Counter derivatives which contain significant valuation inputs not currently evidenced by observable market inputs, inception gains and losses have been fully reserved.
They will be released as and when the inputs become observable.
The mark to market adjustment in the above table is shown net of the reversal of unrealised day 1 profit and loss on derivative contracts.
215 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued p Consolidation Under US GAAP, the differences in the consolidation criteria to UK GAAP results in an increase in total assets of 9,672m 2003: 5,829m.
Under US GAAP, the Group consolidates entities in which it has a controlling financial interest.
This is determined by initially evaluating whether the entity is a voting interest entity, a variable interest entity VIE, or a qualifying special purpose entity QSPE.
Voting interest entities Voting interest entities are entities in which the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to enable each entity to finance itself independently and provides the equity holders with the obligation to absorb losses, the rights to receive residual returns and the right to make decisions about the entitys activities.
Voting interest entities are consolidated in accordance with ARB 51 which states that the usual condition for a controlling financial interest in an entity is ownership of a majority voting interest.
Variable interest entities As defined in FIN 46 and FIN 46-R, an entity is considered a VIE subject to consolidation if the equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or if the equity investors lack one of three characteristics of a controlling financial interest described above.
First, the equity investors lack the ability to make decisions about the entitys activities through voting rights or similar rights.
Second, they do not bear the obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity if they occur.
Lastly, they do not claim the right to receive expected returns of the entity if they occur, which are the compensation for the risk of absorbing the expected losses.
VIEs are consolidated by the interest holder that remains exposed to the majority of the entitys expected losses or residual returns, that is, the primary beneficiary.
The business activities within the Barclays Group where VIEs are used include multi-seller conduit programmes, asset securitisations, client intermediation, credit structuring, asset realisations and fund management.
Multi-seller conduit programmes Barclays creates, administers and provides liquidity and credit enhancements to several commercial paper conduit programmes, primarily in the United States.
These conduits provide clients access to liquidity in the commercial paper markets by allowing them to sell consumer or trade receivables to the conduit, which then issues commercial paper to investors to fund the purchase.
The conduits have sufficient collateral, credit enhancements and liquidity support to maintain an investment grade rating for the commercial paper.
Asset securitisations The Group assists companies with the formation of asset securitisations.
These entities have minimal equity and rely upon funding in the form of notes to purchase the assets for securitisation.
The Group provides both senior and or junior lending and derivative contracts to the entities, where junior notes are provided and in certain circumstances where derivative contracts are provided, the Group may be the primary beneficiary of the entity.
Client intermediation As a financial intermediary, the Group is involved in structuring transactions to meet investor and client needs.
These transactions may involve entities that fall within the scope of FIN 46-R structured by either Barclays or the client and that are used to modify cash flows of third-party assets to create investments with specific risk or return profiles, or to assist clients in the efficient management of other risks.
These transactions may include derivative instruments, and often contain contractual clauses to enable Barclays to terminate the transaction under certain circumstances, for example, if the legal or accounting basis on which the transaction was completed changes.
In addition, Barclays invests as a limited partner in lessor partnerships and as a parent in wholly owned subsidiaries specifically to acquire assets for leasing.
In a portion of these leasing transactions, there may be risk mitigants in place which result in a third-party consolidating the entities as the primary beneficiary.
Credit structuring The Group structures investments to provide specific risk profiles to investors.
This may involve the sale of credit exposures, often by way of credit derivatives, to an entity which subsequently funds the credit exposures by issuing securities.
These securities may initially be held by Barclays prior to sale outside of the Group.
Asset realisations The Group establishes SPEs to facilitate the recovery of banking facilities in circumstances where the borrower has suffered financial loss.
Fund management The Group provides asset management services to a large number of investment entities on an arms-length basis and at market terms and prices.
The majority of these entities are investment funds that are owned by a large and diversified number of investors.
In addition, there are various partnerships, funds and open-ended investment companies that are used by a limited number of independent third parties to facilitate their tailored private debt, debt securities or hedge fund investment strategies.
216 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued p Consolidation continued The Group is the primary beneficiary in the following VIEs, classified by type of activity: a 2004 2003 Total assets Total assets Activity m m b Asset securitisations 3,926 4,982 Multi-seller conduit programmes 12,404 Client intermediation 216 Credit structuring 2,343 Asset realisations 68 The creditors do not have recourse to the general credit of the Group in respect of the variable interest entities consolidated by the Group.
Under UK GAAP, the Group consolidates all of the above entities with the exception of certain asset securitisation entities.
The Group also has significant variable interests in the following VIEs, classified by type of activity, where the Group is not the primary beneficiary.
a 2004 2003 Total Maximum Total Maximum c assets loss assets loss m m m m Asset securitisations 10,199 282 4,435 2,271 Client intermediation 9,799 989 5,400 453 Credit structuring 281 6 Fund management 2,380 1,028 Notes a Due to the transitional arrangements of FIN 46, the disclosures provided for 31st December 2003 reflect only VIEs created after 31st January 2003 where Barclays either was the primary beneficiary or had a significant variable interest.
b Resulting from a refinement of Group policy in respect of vanilla derivative transactions executed with VIEs, the Group no longer believes it is the primary beneficiary of certain entities consolidated in 2003, amounting to 2,978m, which have not been consolidated in 2004. c The maximum exposure to loss represents a worst case scenario in the event that all such entities simultaneously fail.
It does not provide an indication of ongoing exposure which is managed within the Groups risk management framework.
Where a maximum exposure to loss is quoted, this represents the Groups total exposure and includes both drawn and undrawn lending facilities.
The Groups exposure is determined by changes in the value of the variable interests it holds within these entities, which primarily comprise liquidity, credit enhancements, derivative transactions and financing arrangements.
Qualifying Special Purpose Entities QSPEs In accordance with SFAS 140 and FIN 46-R, the Group does not consolidate QSPEs.
QSPEs are passive entities used by the Group to hold financial assets transferred to them by the Group and are commonly used in mortgage and other securitisation transactions as described in Note 52 q below.
q Securitisations Credit card securitisations The Group transfers portfolios of credit card receivable assets to Gracechurch Receivables Trustee Limited.
Barclaycard Funding PLC, a subsidiary of Barclays Bank, has an equitable interest in the cash flows arising from the securitised assets and has issued Loan Note Certificates to the Gracechurch Card Funding vehicles which are Qualifying Special Purpose Entities QSPEs.
QSPEs sell the Medium Term Notes to investors entitling them to receive specified cash flows during the life of the security.
The proceeds of the issuance of Medium Term Notes are then distributed by the QSPEs to the Group as consideration for the Loan Note Certificates transferred.
Following a securitisation, the Group receives fees for servicing the receivables and providing cash management services and payment of deferred consideration for the sale of the beneficial interest in the excess income over and above the interest paid to the noteholder.
The Group maintains an interest in the pool of receivables that are available for securitisation, referred to as the sellers interest.
Investors have no recourse against the Group if cash flows generated from the securitised assets are not sufficient to service the obligations of the QSPEs.
The Group has no right or obligation to repurchase the benefit of any securitised balance, except if certain representations and warranties given by the Group at the time of transfer are breached.
The Group has entered into interest rate currency swaps with the QSPEs.
These swaps convert a proportion of the Sterling variable interest flows arising from the Loan Note Certificates to US Dollar variable and fixed rate interest flows to match the interest payable on the Medium Term Notes issued.
217 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued q Securitisations continued The transfer of receivables is accounted for as a sale under US GAAP where control of the receivables has been relinquished.
A gain or loss is recognised on securitisation of the receivables which is calculated based on the previous carrying amount of the loans involved in the transfer allocated between the receivables sold and the sellers interest based on their relative fair values at the date of sale.
The Group estimates the fair value of the retained interests by determining the present value of future expected cash flows using valuation models that incorporate managements best estimates of key assumptions, which include: a the expected prepayment rate of the receivables each year: b the anticipated credit losses from the receivables: and c a discount rate to calculate future income flows.
The retained interests that are subject to prepayment risk such that the Group may not recover substantially all of its investment are recorded at fair value with subsequent adjustments reflected in net income.
The servicing liability represents the shortfall of future servicing income from the Groups obligation to service the transferred assets compared to the costs of servicing those assets.
The servicing liability is amortised over the expected life of the receivables.
Securitisation activity during the year During 2004, the Group securitised credit card receivables with a book value of 810m 2003: 2,508m recognising a resultant pre-tax gain on sale of 38m 2003: 132m.
The Group has recognised an interest only strip asset and a servicing liability in connection with the transfer.
The derecognition of the securitised assets results in a reduction in net loans and advances to customers of 3,270m 2003: 2,447m.
Mortgage Loans Securitisation In 2004, Barclays acquired and then securitised ten static pools of residential mortgage loans which were originated by unaffiliated mortgage companies.
All of the securitisations were affected through the sale of mortgage loans to Qualifying Special Purpose Vehicles QSPEs.
A call right is held by the originator with the right to liquidate the trust if the principal balance of the mortgage shares has fallen below 10% of their initial amount, provided all obligations under the bonds can be satisfied in full.
Securitisation activity during the year Non-returnable proceeds of these securitisations totalled 4,538m at issue.
In 2004, Barclays recognised a net gain of 25m arising from the transfer of these assets to the QSPEs.
Interest only strip The movement in fair value of retained interests during the period is as follows: 2004 2003 2004 2003 Mortgage Mortgage Credit card Credit card loans loans receivables receivables m m m m Value at 1st January 97 Value at inception of new securitisations 270 30 107 Transfer to net income 10 10 Cash flow from interests retained 90 Foreign exchange differences 9 Value at 31st December 171 117 97 Key economic assumptions used in measuring the interest only strip at the time of the securitisation were as follows: 2004 2003 2004 2003 Mortgage Mortgage Credit card Credit card loans loans receivables receivables Fair value of interest only strip at inception of new securitisations 270m 30m 107m Constant prepayment rate per annum 15%-17% 100% 100% a Credit losses per annum 2%-4.25% 5.5% 5.3% Discount rate 15%-25% 5.0% 5.0% Note a Annual percentage credit loss is based only on positions in which expected credit loss is a key assumption in the determination of fair values.
218 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued q Securitisations continued Servicing liabilities The following table shows the servicing liabilities recognised and amortised during the period: 2004 2003 Credit card Credit card receivables receivables m m Balance at 1st January 28 31 Balance at inception of new securitisations 11 Amortisation for the year 6 3 Balance at 31st December 45 28 The fair value of the servicing liability is 45m 2003: 28m.
No servicing assets or liabilities arise on the securitisation of the mortgages, as the originator has retained the right to service these assets.
The cash flows between the Group and the securitisation vehicles were as follows during the year ended 31st December 2004: 2004 2003 2004 2003 Mortgage Mortgage Credit card Credit card loans loans receivables receivables m m m m Proceeds from new securitisations 4,538 810 2,508 Proceeds from collection reinvested in receivables 7,336 4,277 Cash inflow from servicing fees 22 13 Cash inflow on interests retained 90 216 149 Interest only strip at year end At 31st December 2004, key economic assumptions and a sensitivity analysis showing the hypothetical effect on the fair value of those interests of two unfavourable variations from the expected levels for each key assumption are as follows: 2004 2004 Mortgage Credit card loans receivables Fair value of interest only strip 171m 117m Constant prepayment rate per annum 15%-17% 100% Impact of 33% adverse change 69 m 18 m Impact of 50% adverse change 79 m 50 m a Credit losses per annum 2%-5% 5.5% Impact of 10% adverse change 15 m 8 m Impact of 20% adverse change 29 m 16 m Discount rate 15%-25% 5.0% Impact of 10% adverse change 7 m 11 m Impact of 20% adverse change 25 m 20 m Note a Annual percentage credit loss is based only on positions in which expected credit loss is a key assumption in the determination of fair values.
The sensitivity analysis illustrates the potential magnitude of significant adverse changes in key assumptions used in valuing the interest only strip.
However, changes in fair value based on a variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear.
Furthermore, the sensitivities for each key variable are calculated independently of changes in the other key variables.
The following tables present information about principal balances of managed and securitised receivables as of and for the year ended 31st December 2004.
2004 2003 Credit card receivables Credit card receivables TotalDelinquent Net Total Delinquent Net a b a b loans loans write-offs loans loans write-offs m m m m m m Total receivables managed 14,146 235 515 11,078 228 438 c Less: receivables securitised 3,317 49 92 2,508 36 52 Assets on US GAAP balance sheet 10,829 186 423 8,570 192 386 219 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued q Securitisations continued 2004 Mortgages Total Delinquent Net loans loans write-offs m m m Total receivables managed 8,020 c Less: receivables securitised 4,538 Assets on US GAAP Balanced Sheet 3,482 Notes a Delinquent loans are loans 90 days or more past due.
b Net of recoveries during the year.
c Securitised and derecognised from the balance sheet under US GAAP.
r Collateral Under a repo sale and repurchase agreement, an asset is sold to a counterparty with a commitment to repurchase it at a future date at an agreed price.
The Group engages in repos and reverse repos, which are the same transaction in the opposite direction, i. e. the Group buying an asset with a fixed commitment to resell.
The following amounts were included in the balance sheet for repos and reverse repos and are reported on a net basis where permitted: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Reverse repos assets Loans and advances to banks 61,075 50,392 41,001 Loans and advances to customers 58,304 49,962 42,505 119,379 100,354 83,506 Repos liabilities Deposits by banks 42,969 39,810 37,857 Customer accounts 35,382 23,661 24,580 78,351 63,471 62,437 The average and maximum amount of reverse repos for 2004 were 133,256m and 164,242m 2003: 109,315m and 137,025m, 2002: 76,215m and 103,895m respectively.
Reverse repos and stock borrowing transactions are accounted for as collateralised loans.
It is the Groups policy to seek collateral at the outset equal to 100% to 105% of the loan amount.
The level of collateral held is monitored daily and further collateral calls made to bring the level of cash held and the market value of collateral in line with the loan balance.
Under certain transactions including reverse repo and stock borrowing transactions the Group is allowed to sell or repledge the collateral held.
At 31st December 2004, the fair value of collateral held was 167,033m 2003: 126,085m of which 122,888m 2003: 91,280m related to items that have been sold or repledged.
Repos and stock lending transactions are accounted for as secured borrowings.
At 31st December 2004, the Group had given 114,568m 2003: 58,316m of its assets as collateral in respect of these transactions.
Of the total collateral given 85,611m 2003: 44,002m was on terms which gave the recipient the right to sell or repledge, comprising debt securities of 83,833m 2003: 43,665m and equity securities of 1,778m 2003: 337m.
The residual 28,957m 2003: 14,314m was on terms by which the counterparty cannot sell or repledge comprised 28,957m 2003: 14,024m of debt securities and nil 2003: 290m of equity securities.
For the pledge of collateral to secure on-balance sheet liabilities see Note 35. s Provisions for bad and doubtful debts During 2004, there was a net write-back of 10m 2003: nil, 2002: 2m write-back in respect of credit losses on derivatives.
20m of the year end specific provisions related to credit losses on derivatives 2003: nil.
During 2004, there was a net write-back of nil 2003: 14m, 2002: nil of the general provision in the respect of off-balance sheet exposures including derivatives.
At 31st December 2004, 62m of the general provision 2003: nil was held in respect of off-balance sheet exposures including derivatives.
The specific provision for contingent liabilities and commitments is nil 2003: 12m.
220 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued t Guarantees An element of Barclays normal banking business is to issue guarantees on behalf of its customers.
In almost all cases, Barclays will hold collateral against the exposure, have a right of recourse to the customer or both.
In addition, Barclays issues guarantees on its own behalf.
The major categories of these guarantees are: Financial guarantees These are given to banks and financial institutions on behalf of customers to secure loans, overdrafts and other banking facilities.
These are commonly called facility guarantees.
Included within this category are stock borrowing indemnities.
These relate to funds managed by Barclays on behalf of clients, which participate in stock lending programmes.
Barclays indemnifies the clients against any losses incurred by the clients resulting from borrower default.
Collateral, principally cash, is maintained against all stock borrowing transactions ranging from 102% to 105% of the securities loaned with adjustments to collateral made daily.
It is possible that the exposure could exceed the collateral provided should the value of the security rise concurrently with the default of the borrowers.
Standby letters of credit These are irrevocable commitments to pay a third party, on behalf of our customers, the value of which on demand is subject to certain criteria being complied with.
Any amounts paid are debited to the customers accounts.
These contracts are used when required in substitution of guarantees due to a greater acceptability in the beneficiary country.
Other guarantees This category includes the following types of contracts: Performance guarantees a guarantee given by the bank on behalf of a customer, undertaking to pay a certain sum if our customer has failed to carry out the terms or certain terms of the contract.
Advance payment guarantees enables the beneficiary to demand repayment of an advance in funds in certain circumstances.
Tender guarantees provided during a tender process to lend support to a customers commitment to a tender process.
Customs and Excise guarantees provided to HM Customs and Excise to cover a customers liability, most commonly for import duties.
Retention guarantees similar to advance payments but are used to secure early release of retained contract payments.
The following table provides the maturity analysis of guarantees issued by the Group.
The amounts disclosed represent the maximum potential amount of future payments undiscounted the Group could be required to make under the guarantee, before any recovery through recourse or collaterisation provisions.
2004 2003 Less than One to Four to Over one year three years five years five years Total Total m m m m m m Financial guarantees 19,842 367 292 826 21,327 18,812 Standby letters of credit 4,772 1,721 1,452 739 8,684 5,784 Other guarantees 6,227 1,156 379 483 8,245 8,427 Credit card guarantees Under the Consumer Credit Act of 1974, Barclays may be liable to customers to refund payments made for unsatisfactory goods or services or unfulfilled contracts where payment was made through a credit card.
The maximum liability that Barclays could have is the total credit limits marked to customers of 42,813m 2003: 32,734m.
These limits are included within commitments with a maturity of less than one year, as the limit can be revoked at any time.
Warranties and indemnities given as part of acquisition and disposal activity Warranties and indemnities are routinely provided to counterparties as part of the terms and conditions required in a business acquisition, disposal or investing in joint ventures.
Most commonly, these relate to indemnification against tax liabilities arising from pre-transaction activities.
Usually the total aggregate liability, in respect of warranties and indemnities for a transaction is capped and the maximum exposure under these is 2,686m 2003: 4,000m.
No collateral or recourse to third parties is generally available.
Certain derivative contracts In addition to the contracts described above, there are certain derivative contracts to which the Group is a counterparty that meet the characteristics of a guarantee under FIN 45.
These derivatives are recorded in the Groups balance sheet at fair value under US GAAP.
Included in other provisions for liabilities and charges is 26m 2003: nil in respect of guarantees.
The Group considers the amounts provided in the balance sheet represent a reasonable estimate of amounts actually anticipated to be paid under such arrangements.
221 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 52 Differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP accounting principles continued u Asset retirement obligation The Group recognises a liability for an asset retirement obligation and capitalises an amount for asset retirement cost.
The entity estimates the initial fair value of the liability using an expected present value technique.
2004 2003 m m Asset retirement obligations at beginning of year 4 Liability incurred in the period 36 4 Asset retirement obligations at end of year 40 4 v Assets held for sale The Group acquired an interest in New World Networks International Ltd NWN following a debt for equity restructuring in February 2003 and has consequently classified it as an asset held for sale under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 144.
The Group is aiming to partially recover its exposure by disposing of its interest in NWN to a third party and has engaged a third party to find a buyer.
The Group is currently in negotiations with several interested parties and anticipate a disposal to occur in 2005.
NWN has property, plant and equipment of 76m and liabilities of 83m.
w Total assets Netting Certain transactions have been netted in the UK as required under FRS 5.
To the extent these arrangements do not satisfy the requirement of FIN 39 and FIN 41, total assets have been increased by 65,505m 2003: 45,277m.
2004 2003 m m Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements 18,572 9,684 Securities lending and borrowing agreements 21,824 18,743 Receivables and payables in respect of unsettled trades 7,250 6,030 Cash collateral held against derivatives 14,787 7,964 Loans and deposits 17,572 14,916 Total 65,505 45,277 Gross assets and liabilities have been increased by 60,400m 2003: 49,099m due to inclusion of certain BGI insurance products.
The legal form of these products is similar to insurance contracts, which are accounted for in accordance with SFAS 97.
Accordingly, the assets and liabilities associated with these products are recorded on the balance sheet.
The inclusion of acceptances resulted in an increase in total assets under US GAAP of 263m 2003: 654m.
x Profit and loss account presentation There are certain differences in the presentation of the profit and loss account between UK GAAP and US GAAP.
Exceptional items 2004: 45m profit, 2003: 4m profit, 2002: 3m loss would be classified as operating income or expense under US GAAP rather than being shown separately.
Under US GAAP, net interest received 2004: 219 m, 2003: 68m, 2002: 75m relating to trading activities would be shown within net interest revenue, rather than included in dealing profits.
Reconciling differences arising from associated undertakings 2004: 7m profit, 2003: 7m profit, 2002: 6m profit would be included within a single component of net income.
y Changes in UK GAAP During 2004, Barclays restated the 2003 shareholders funds under UK GAAP in respect of a change of accounting policy for shares held in ESOP trusts, as required by UITF 38, as described on page 129.
The restatement had no impact on net income.
There has been no effect on the reported US GAAP figures.
Shareholders funds Original reconciliation Prior year Reconciliation item adjustment item m m m 2003 Own shares 99 99 Total affected reconciling items 99 99 222 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 53 Consolidated statement of cash flows Interest paid in the year, including amounts relating to trading activities, was 14,842m 2003: 10,768m, 2002: 10,167m.
For the purposes of the US GAAP cash flow, cash and cash equivalents are defined as short-term highly liquid investments which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash with original maturity of three months.
Set out below, for illustrative purposes, is a summary consolidated statement of cash flows presented on a US GAAP basis: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net cash provided by operating activities 9,250 13,367 15,267 Net cash used in investing activities 73,161 30,683 46,968 Net cash provided by financing activities 61,112 16,846 34,977 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks 1,136 750 990 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,663 280 4,266 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 50,518 50,238 45,972 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 48,855 50,518 50,238 54 Regulatory capital requirements Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored by the Group, employing techniques based on the guidelines developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices the Basel Committee and European Union Directives, as implemented by the Financial Services Authority FSA for supervisory purposes.
The FSA regards the risk asset ratio calculation, originally developed by the Basel Committee, as a key supervisory tool and sets individual minimum ratio requirements for banks in the UK at or above the minimum of 8%.
The concept of risk weighting and the basis for calculating eligible capital resources are described under capital ratios on page 114.
The following tables summarises capital resources and capital ratios, as defined for supervisory purposes: Barclays PLC Group and Barclays Bank PLC Group Amount Ratio As at 31st December 2004 m % Total net capital resources 25,216 11.5 Tier 1 capital resources 16,662 7.6 Amount Ratio As at 31st December 2003 m % Total net capital resources 24,223 12.8 Tier 1 capital resources 14,994 7.9 223 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2004 55 Significant Group concentration of credit risk A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
Barclays has three significant concentrations of exposures to credit risk: the UK economy, home loans and banks.
Credit exposure is concentrated in the UK where the majority of the Groups activities are conducted.
Gross credit exposure to borrowers on the banking book in the UK based on the location of the office recording the transaction was 159bn at 31st December 2004 2003: 144bn.
In the UK, the Groups collateral policy differs by line of business and product but is broadly consistent with UK market practice.
Netting agreements are made with wholesale counterparties whenever practical and to the extent that such agreements are legally enforceable.
Lending in respect of home loans totalled 78bn at 31st December 2004 2003: 72bn.
This represents 40% 2003: 42% of loans to customers on the banking book.
As collateral, Barclays requires a first mortgage over the residential property for the acquisition of which the loan is made.
As an active participant in the international financial markets, the Group has significant credit exposure to banks.
In total, credit exposure to banks at 31st December 2004 was estimated to have amounted to 107bn 2003: 87bn of which 75bn 2003: 62bn consisted of loans and advances and 10bn 2003: 9bn of mark-to-market balances in respect of derivatives.
The remaining credit exposure is largely related to letters of credit and guarantees.
The Group may require collateral before entering into a credit commitment with another bank, depending on the type of the financial product and the counterparty involved.
Netting agreements are secured whenever possible and to the extent that such agreements are legally enforceable.
The concentrations of credit exposure described above are not proportionally related to credit loss.
Some segments of the Groups portfolio have and are expected to have proportionally higher credit charges in relation to the exposure than others.
Moreover, the volatility of credit loss is different in different parts of the portfolio.
Thus comparatively large credit charges could arise in parts of the portfolio not mentioned above.
For the months indicated, the high and low noon buying rates in New York City for cable transfers in pounds Sterling, as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the noon buying rate, were: US Dollars per pound Sterling 2005 2004 February January December November October September High 1.92 1.91 1.95 1.91 1.84 1.81 Low 1.86 1.86 1.91 1.83 1.78 1.77 For the years indicated, the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month were: US Dollars per pound Sterling 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Average 1.84 1.64 1.61 1.45 1.51 On 28th February 2005, the noon buying rate was US$1.92 per pound Sterling.
No representation is made that pounds Sterling amounts have been, or could have been, or could be, converted into US Dollars at that rate or at any of the above rates.
For the purpose of presenting financial information in this report, exchange rates other than those shown above may have been used.
226 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Glossary Term used in Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accounts Financial statements Allotted Issued Attributable profit Net income Called up share capital Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid Capital allowances Tax term equivalent to US tax depreciation allowances Cash at bank and in hand Cash Class of business Industry segment Fees and commissions receivable Fee and commission income Fees and commissions payable Fee and commission expense Finance lease Capital lease Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest receivable Interest income Interest payable Interest expense Loans and advances Lendings Loan capital Long-term debt Net asset value Book value Profit Income Profit and loss account Income statement Profit and loss account reserve Retained earnings Provisions Allowances Revaluation reserve No direct US equivalent.
Represents the increase in the valuation of certain assets as compared with historical cost Share capital Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid Shareholders funds Shareholders equity Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus not distributable Shares in issue Shares outstanding Tangible fixed assets Property and equipment Write-offs Charge-offs 227 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated profit and loss account Consolidated profit and loss account For the year ended 31st December 2004 2003 2002 Note m m m Interest receivable: Interest receivable and similar income arising from debt securities 2,414 2,384 2,030 Other interest receivable and similar income 11,251 10,043 10,014 13,665 12,427 12,044 Interest payable 6,823 5,823 5,839 Net interest income 6,842 6,604 6,205 Fees and commissions receivable 5,672 4,896 4,454 Less: fees and commissions payable 706 633 529 Dealing profits 1 1,493 1,054 833 Other operating income a 653 490 364 Operating income 13,954 12,411 11,327 Administrative expenses staff costs b 4,998 4,295 3,757 Administrative expenses other 5 2,758 2,404 2,312 Depreciation 6 295 289 303 Goodwill amortisation 6 299 265 254 Operating expenses 8,350 7,253 6,626 Operating profit before provisions 5,604 5,158 4,701 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 15 1,091 1,347 1,484 Provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments 2 1 1 Provisions 1,093 1,346 1,485 Operating profit 4,511 3,812 3,216 Loss profit from joint ventures 3 1 5 Profit loss from associated undertakings 59 28 5 Exceptional items 7 45 4 3 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 4,612 3,845 3,203 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8 1,289 1,076 955 Profit on ordinary activities after tax 3,323 2,769 2,248 Minority interests equity 9 44 25 20 Profit attributable to the members of Barclays Bank PLC 3,279 2,744 2,228 Profit attributable to non-equity shareholders 2 Dividends payable to Barclays PLC d 2,247 1,580 1,798 Profit retained for the financial year 1,030 1,164 430 The Note numbers refer to the Notes on pages 139 to 224, whereas the Note letters refer to those on pages 234 to 237.
All results arise from continuing operations.
The consolidated profit and loss account of Barclays Bank PLC for the year ended 31st December 2004, contains a credit of 9m 2003: nil, 2002: nil in respect of dividends on own shares within other operating income that is shown as a deduction against dividends in the consolidated accounts of Barclays PLC.
Additionally, a charge of nil 2003: nil, 2002: 2m is included within staff costs which is debited directly to revenues in the consolidated accounts of Barclays PLC.
228 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Barclays Bank PLC data Statement of total recognised gains and losses Statement of total recognised gains and losses For the year ended 31st December 2004 2003 2002 m m m Profit for the financial year attributable to the members of Barclays Bank PLC 3,279 2,744 2,228 Exchange rate translation differences 33 4 61 Gain loss arising from transactions with third parties 13 4 206 Other items 5 3 8 Joint ventures and associated undertakings 30 22 2 Total recognised gain relating to the period 3,234 2,711 2,383 229 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2004 2003 Note m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 1,753 1,726 Items in course of collection from other banks 1,772 2,006 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 12 6,658 7,177 Loans and advances to banks banking 24,986 17,254 trading 50,145 44,670 13 75,131 61,924 Loans and advances to customers banking 189,847 167,858 trading 65,099 58,961 14 254,946 226,819 Debt securities 16 127,428 97,393 Equity shares 17 12,177 7,871 Interests in joint ventures share of gross assets 147 266 share of gross liabilities 119 208 18 28 58 Interests in associated undertakings 18 381 370 Intangible fixed assets 19 4,295 4,406 Tangible fixed assets 20 1,921 1,790 Other assets 21 22,307 19,835 Prepayments and accrued income 21 5,078 3,921 513,875 435,296 Retail life-fund assets attributable to policyholders 22 8,378 8,077 Total assets 522,253 443,373 The Note numbers refer to the Notes on pages 139 to 224.
Equity shares for Barclays Bank PLC differ from Barclays PLC by 11m 2003: 12m due to treasury shares.
Other assets for Barclays Bank PLC differ from Barclays PLC by 153m 2003: 99m due to ESOP shares.
The balances reported in Notes 17 and 21 are for Barclays PLC.
Additionally, minority interests differ by 690m 2003: nil.
All these differences are matched by a commensurate change in shareholders funds.
230 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2004 2003 Note m m m m Liabilities Deposits by banks banking 74,211 57,641 trading 36,813 36,451 23 111,024 94,092 Customer accounts banking 171,963 155,814 trading 45,755 29,054 24 217,718 184,868 Debt securities in issue 25 67,806 49,569 Items in course of collection due to other banks 1,205 1,286 Other liabilities 76,550 69,497 Balances due to Barclays PLC 1,026 879 Accruals and deferred income 26 6,582 4,983 Provisions for liabilities and charges deferred tax 27 738 646 Provisions for liabilities and charges other 28 467 369 Subordinated liabilities: Undated loan capital non-convertible 29 6,149 6,310 Dated loan capital convertible to preference shares 15 17 non-convertible 6,113 6,012 30 6,128 6,029 495,393 418,528 Minority and other interests and shareholders funds Minority interests equity 211 283 Called up share capital c 2,316 2,302 Share premium account 6,531 5,743 Revaluation reserve 24 24 Profit and loss account 9,400 8,416 Shareholders funds equity 17,581 16,485 non-equity 690 18,271 16,485 18,482 16,768 513,875 435,296 Retail life-fund liabilities to policyholders 22 8,378 8,077 Total liabilities and shareholders funds 522,253 443,373 2004 2003 Note m m Memorandum items 36 Contingent liabilities: Acceptances and endorsements 303 671 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 30,011 24,596 Other contingent liabilities 8,245 8,427 38,559 33,694 Commitments standby facilities, credit lines and other 134,051 114,847 The Note numbers refer to the Notes on pages 139 to 224, whereas the Note letters refer to those on pages 234 to 237.
231 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated statement of changes in reserves Consolidated statement of changes in reserves As at 31st December 2004 2003 2002 m m m Share premium account At beginning of year 5,743 5,603 5,475 Premium arising on shares issued 788 140 128 At end of year 6,531 5,743 5,603 Revaluation reserve At beginning of year 24 24 30 Exchange rate translation differences 2 Released on transaction with third parties 2 6 At end of year 24 24 24 Profit and loss account At beginning of year 8,416 7,285 6,694 Profit retained 1,030 1,164 430 Exchange rate translation differences 58 31 61 Goodwill written-back on disposals 10 Gain loss arising from transaction with third parties 13 4 212 Other items 1 2 At end of year 9,400 8,416 7,285 Total reserves 15,955 14,183 12,912 The Group operates in a number of countries subject to regulations under which a local subsidiary undertaking has to maintain a minimum level of capital.
Accumulated exchange rate translation differences are 578m debit 2003: 520m debit, 2002: 491m debit.
Goodwill amounting to 205m 2003: 205m, 2002: 205m has been charged directly against reserves in the current and prior years in respect of acquisitions.
232 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2004 2003 2002 Note m m m m m m Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities e 6,122 2,379 6,803 Dividends received from joint ventures and associated undertakings 15 71 Returns on investments and servicing of finance: Interest paid on loan capital and other subordinated liabilities 652 606 607 Preference dividends paid Dividends paid to minority shareholders 19 14 23 Net cash outflow from returns on investment and servicing of finance 671 620 630 Tax paid 690 910 828 Capital expenditure and financial investment: Capital expenditure 532 310 301 Sale of property and equipment 125 97 289 Purchase of investment securities 47,520 36,886 28,128 Redemption of investment securities 18,441 17,137 10,247 Sale of investment securities 22,722 21,394 11,137 Net cash outflow inflow from capital expenditure and financial investment 6,764 1,432 6,756 Acquisitions and disposals: Net cash outflow from formation of FirstCaribbean International Bank Limited 42 160 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 41 211 985 451 Acquisition of associated undertakings and joint ventures 21 Sale of Group undertakings 42 39 1 Sale of other associated undertakings 47 16 Net cash outflow inflow from acquisitions and disposals 185 930 612 Equity dividend paid 2,139 1,400 1,796 Net cash outflow before financing 4,312 4,800 3,818 Financing: Issue of loan capital and other subordinated liabilities net of expenses 666 1,926 2,173 Redemption repurchase of loan capital and other subordinated liabilities 611 974 376 Net cash inflow from non-recourse financing 4,264 3,262 644 Issue of ordinary shares 61 149 135 Redemption of preference shares Issue of preference shares 688 Issue of shares to minority interests 52 65 35 Net cash inflow from financing 5,120 4,428 2,611 Increase decrease in cash 44 808 372 1,207 The Note numbers refer to the Notes on pages 139 to 224, whereas the Note letters refer to those on pages 234 to 237.
233 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts a Other operating income 2004 2003 2002 m m m Premium income on insurance underwriting 211 264 178 Net gain on disposal of investment securities 181 73 58 Income loss from the long-term assurance business 58 33 51 Property rentals 9 15 20 Dividend income from equity shares 17 67 Other income 177 165 152 653 490 364 b Administrative expenses staff costs 2004 2003 2002 m m m Salaries and accrued incentive payments 4,043 3,441 3,159 Social security costs 339 278 240 Pension costs 160 180 27 Post-retirement health care 22 19 15 Other staff costs 434 377 370 4,998 4,295 3,757 c Called up share capital Ordinary shares The authorised ordinary share capital of the Bank, as at 31st December 2004, was 3,000 million 2003: 3,000 million ordinary shares of 1 each.
Preference shares The authorised preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, at 31st December 2004, was 150 million 2003: 150 million preference shares of US$0.01 each together with 1,000 preference shares of 1 each and 400,000 preference shares of 100 each.
The issued preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, at 31st December 2004, comprised 1,000 2003: nil preference shares of 1 each and 100,000 2003: nil preference shares of 100 each.
2004 2003 m m Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year 2,302 2,293 Issued for cash 7 9 At end of year 2,309 2,302 Called up preference share capital, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year Issued for cash 7 At the end of year 7 Called up share capital 2,316 2,302 Sterling preference shares 1,000 sterling cumulative callable preference shares of 1 each the Sterling Preference Shares were issued on 31st December 2004 at nil premium.
The Sterling Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive sterling cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semi-annually at a rate reset semi-annually equal to the sterling interbank offered rate for six-month sterling deposits.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be obliged to pay such dividends if 1 it has profits available for the purpose of distribution under the Companies Act 1985 as at each dividend payment date and 2 it is solvent on the relevant dividend payment date, provided that a capital regulations condition is satisfied on such dividend payment date.
The dividends shall not be due and payable on the relevant dividend payment date except to the extent that Barclays Bank PLC could make such payment and still be solvent immediately thereafter.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be considered solvent on any date if i it is able to pay its debts to senior creditors as they fall due and ii its auditors have reported within the previous six months that its assets exceed its liabilities.
234 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 c Called up share capital continued If Barclays Bank PLC shall not pay, or shall pay only in part, a dividend for a period of seven days or more after the due date for payment, the holders of the Sterling Preference Shares may institute proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC.
No remedy against Barclays Bank PLC shall be available to the holder of any Sterling Preference Shares for the recovery of amounts owing in respect of Sterling Preference Shares other than the institution of proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC and or proving in such winding-up.
On a winding-up or other return of capital other than a redemption or purchase by Barclays Bank PLC of any of its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, permitted by the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC and under applicable law, the assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders shall be applied in priority to any payment to the holders of Ordinary Shares and any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking junior to the Sterling Preference Shares on such a return of capital and pari passu on such a return of capital with the holders of any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue other than any class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking in priority to the Sterling Preference Shares on a winding-up or other such return of capital, in payment to the holders of the Sterling Preference Shares of a sum equal to the aggregate of: 1 an amount equal to the dividends accrued thereon for the then current dividend period and any accumulated arrears thereof to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital: and 2 an amount equal to 1 per Sterling Preference Share.
After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distributions to which they are entitled, the holders of the Sterling Preference Shares will have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of Barclays Bank PLC and will not be entitled to any further participation in such return of capital.
The Sterling Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, subject to the Companies Act and its Articles.
Holders of the Sterling Preference Shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC.
Euro preference shares 100,000 euro 4.875% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 4.875% Preference Shares were issued on 8th December 2004 for a consideration of 993.6m 688.4m, of which the nominal value was 10m and the balance was share premium.
The 4.875% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.875% per annum until 15th December 2014, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.05% per annum above the euro interbank offered rate for three-month euro deposits.
The 4.875% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2014, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
No redemption or purchase of any 4.875% Preference Shares may be made by Barclays Bank PLC without the prior consent of the UK Financial Services Authority and any such redemption will be subject to the Companies Act and the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC.
On a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC or other return of capital other than a redemption or purchase of shares of Barclays Bank PLC, or a reduction of share capital, a holder of 4.875% Preference Shares will rank in the application of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders 1 junior to the holder of any shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking in priority to the 4.875% Preference Shares, 2 equally in all respects with holders of other preference shares and any other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking pari passu with the 4.875% Preference Share and 3 in priority to the holders of ordinary shares and any other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking junior to the 4.875% Preference Shares.
The holders of the 400m 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes and the US$1,000m 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes of Barclays Bank PLC together, the TONs and the holders of the US$1,250m 8.55% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$750m 7.375% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments and the 850m 7.50% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments of Barclays Bank PLC together, the RCIs would, for the purposes only of calculating the amounts payable in respect of such securities on a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC, subject to limited exceptions and to the extent that the TONs and the RCIs are then in issue, rank pari passu with the holders of the most senior class or classes of preference shares then in issue in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC.
Accordingly, the holders of the 4.875% Preference Shares would rank equally with the holders of such TONs and RCIs on such a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC unless one or more classes of shares of Barclays Bank PLC ranking in priority to the 4.875% Preference Shares are in issue at the time of such winding-up, in which event the holders of such TONs and RCIs would rank equally with the holders of such shares and in priority to the holders of the 4.875% Preference Shares.
Subject to such ranking, in such event holders of the 4.875% Preference Shares will be entitled to receive out of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available for distributions to shareholders, liquidating distributions in the amount of 10,000 per 4.875% Preference Share plus an amount equal to the accrued dividend for the then current dividend period to the date of the commencement of the winding up or other such return of capital.
If a dividend is not paid in full on any 4.875% Preference Shares on any dividend payment date, then a dividend restriction shall apply.
Holders of the 4.875% Preference Shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC.
Barclays Bank PLC is not permitted to create a class of shares ranking as regards participation in the profits or assets of Barclays Bank PLC in priority to the 4.875% Preference Shares, save with the sanction of a special resolution of a separate general meeting of the holders of the 4.875% Preference Shares requiring a majority of not less than three-fourths of the holders of the 4.875% Preference Shares voting at the separate general meeting, or with the consent in writing of the holders of three-fourths of the 4.875% Preference Shares.
Except as described above, the holders of the 4.875% Preference Shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of Barclays Bank PLC.
NonUndated Dated recourse loan loan Ordinary Preference Share Minority financing capital capital shares Shares premium interests m m m m m m m Barclays Bank PLC At beginning of year 4,513 6,310 6,029 2,302 5,743 283 Exchange rate and other movements 161 44 124 Net cash inflow from financing 4,264 55 7 7 788 52 At end of year 8,777 6,149 6,128 2,309 7 6,531 211 g Segmental analysis 2004 2003 2002 m % m % m % a By geographical segments Attributable profit UK 2,407 73 1,886 69 2,023 90 Other European Union 469 15 547 20 284 13 United States 143 4 179 6 161 7 Rest of the World 260 8 132 5 82 4 3,279 100 2,744 100 2,228 100 Note a For the basis of the geographical analysis, see Analyses by geographical segments and classes of business on page 190.
236 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 h Differences between UK and US accounting principles Barclays Bank PLC The following table summarises the significant adjustments to consolidated attributable profit net income under US GAAP and shareholders funds shareholders equity under US GAAP which would result from the application of US GAAP instead of UK GAAP.
237 Barclays Bank PLC data Financial data 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Selected financial statistics % %%%% Attributable profit as a percentage of: a average total assets 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.6 0.8 average shareholders funds 19.2 17.0 14.7 17.3 24.6 Average shareholders funds as a a percentage of average total assets 2.7 3.3 3.5 3.7 3.3 Selected profit and loss account data m m m m m Interest receivable 13,665 12,427 12,044 13,458 11,788 Interest payable 6,823 5,823 5,839 7,492 6,682 Profit on redemption repurchase of loan capital 2 Non-interest income 7,112 5,807 5,122 5,176 4,386 Operating expenses 8,350 7,253 6,626 6,556 5,492 Provisions bad and doubtful debts 1,091 1,347 1,484 1,149 817 contingent liabilities and commitments 2 1 1 1 1 Loss profit from joint ventures 3 1 5 1 1 Profit loss from associated undertakings 59 28 5 8 7 Exceptional items 45 4 3 4 214 Profit before tax 4,612 3,845 3,203 3,423 3,392 Profit attributable to members of BB Plc 3,279 2,744 2,228 2,449 2,469 Selected balance sheet data m m m m m Shareholders funds equity 17,581 16,485 15,205 14,485 13,183 non-equity 690 Dated and undated loan capital 12,277 12,339 11,537 9,987 7,720 Deposits by banks, customer accounts, debt securities in issue and items in course of collection 397,753 329,815 304,817 273,073 240,607 Loans and advances to banks and customers 330,077 288,743 260,572 228,382 198,536 Total assets 522,253 443,373 403,066 356,612 316,186 Note a For the purposes of this summary, the retail life-fund assets attributable to policyholders have been excluded from average total assets.
238 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 US GAAP financial data US GAAP Financial Data The following financial information has been adjusted from data prepared under UK GAAP to reflect significant differences from accounting principles generally accepted in the US US GAAP.
See Note 52 for an explanation of these differences.
Total assets have been adjusted to reflect such differences together with adjustments set out in footnotes s and y to Note 52.
239 Reconciliation of economic profit Reconciliation of economic profit Economic profit for 2004 was 1.9bn.
The cumulative total of 5.3bn was generated for the preceding goal period, 2000-2003.
For the new goal period cycle, 2004-2007, the first year of the new goal cycle generated economic profit of 1.9bn.
The 2000-2004 breakdown of economic profit performance is shown below and its reconciliation to profit after tax and minority interests.
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Profit after tax and minority interests 3,268 2,744 2,230 2,446 2,445 Goodwill amortisation 299 265 254 229 51 Tax credit on goodwill 11 7 5 5 Goodwill relating to associated undertakings 7 71 Goodwill on disposals 10 Profit after tax and minority interests excluding goodwill amortisation 3,563 3,009 2,490 2,670 2,496 Gain loss on disposal recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 13 4 206 3,576 3,005 2,696 2,670 2,496 Average shareholders funds including average historical goodwill 18,237 17,019 15,800 14,514 10,117 Post-tax cost of equity 9.5% 9.5% 9.5% 10.5% 11.0% Cost of average shareholders funds including average historical goodwill 1,691 1,575 1,458 1,441 1,094 Economic profit 1,885 1,430 1,238 1,229 1,402 The difference between the average shareholders funds excluding minority interests and that reported above represents cumulative goodwill amortisation charged and goodwill previously written off to reserves.
The cost of average shareholders funds includes a charge for purchased goodwill.
A post-tax cost of equity of 8.5% has been used for goodwill associated with the acquisition of Woolwich plc.
