38 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Independent auditors report to the members of Bradford & Bingley plc Opinion We have audited the financial statements on with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code pages 39 to 74.
We have also audited the specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and In our opinion: information in the directors remuneration we report if it does not.
We are not required to the financial statements give a true and fair report on pages 32 to 36. consider whether the boards statements on view of the state of affairs of the company internal control cover all risks and controls, or and the group as at 31 December 2004 and form an opinion on the effectiveness of the This report is made solely to the companys of the profit of the group for the year then groups corporate governance procedures or its members, as a body, in accordance with ended: and risk and control procedures.
section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our the financial statements and the part of the audit work has been undertaken so that we directors remuneration report to be audited might state to the companys members those We read the other information contained in have been properly prepared in accordance matters we are required to state to them in an the Annual Report, including the corporate with the Companies Act 1985. auditors report and for no other purpose.
To governance statement and the unaudited part the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not of the directors remuneration report, and KPMG Audit Plc accept or assume responsibility to anyone consider whether it is consistent with the Chartered Accountants other than the company and the companys audited financial statements.
We consider the Registered Auditor members as a body, for our audit work, for this implications for our report if we become aware Leeds report, or for the opinions we have formed.
of any apparent misstatements or material 21 February 2005 inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors are responsible for preparing the We conducted our audit in accordance with Annual Report and the directors Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing remuneration report.
As described on page 37, Practices Board.
An audit includes this includes responsibility for preparing the examination, on a test basis, of evidence financial statements in accordance with relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the applicable United Kingdom law and accounting financial statements and the part of the standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent directors remuneration report to be audited.
auditors, are established in the United Kingdom It also includes an assessment of the significant by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the estimates and judgements made by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, directors in the preparation of the financial and by our professions ethical guidance.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and We report to you our opinion as to whether adequately disclosed.
the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be We planned and performed our audit so as to audited have been properly prepared in obtain all the information and explanations accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We which we considered necessary in order to also report to you if, in our opinion, the provide us with sufficient evidence to give directors report is not consistent with the reasonable assurance that the financial financial statements, if the company has not kept statements and the part of the directors proper accounting records, if we have not remuneration report to be audited are free received all the information and explanations from material misstatement, whether caused by we require for our audit, or if information fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding our opinion we also evaluated the overall directors remuneration and transactions with adequacy of the presentation of information in the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the financial statements, and the part of the the corporate governance statement on pages directors remuneration report to be audited.
23 to 25 reflects the companys compliance
