Report of the independent auditors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the To the members of Candover Investments plc Chairmans statement, operational review, the valuation policy, the We have audited the financial statements of Candover Investments review of the 15 largest investments and other information as listed plc for the year ended 31st December, 2004 which comprise in the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report the principal accounting policies, the Group statement of total if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material return, the balance sheets, the Group cash flow statement and inconsistencies with the financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared under do not extend to any other information.
the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is described Basis of opinion as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes the Companys members those matters we are required to state an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the directors remuneration report and the financial statements directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material in accordance with United Kingdom law and accounting standards misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Opinion auditing standards.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements affairs of the Company and the Group at 31st December, 2004 give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the and of the return of the Group for the year then ended: part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not with the Companies Act 1985. consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified Grant Thornton UK LLP by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Registered Auditors Group is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants London We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects 23rd March, 2005 the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Revised Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Notes the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
The maintenance and integrity of the Candover Investments plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We read other information contained in the annual report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises only the directors 34 Candover Report and accounts 2004
