Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust plc We have audited the Companys Financial Statements for Financial Statements.
This other information comprises the the year ended 30 June 2004 which comprise the Financial Highlights, Directors and Management, Chairman's Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, Historical Performance, Top 40 Investments, Statement, and the related notes 1 to 27.
These Financial Portfolio Analysis by Sector, Portfolio Manager's Report, Statements have been prepared on the basis of the Estimated Performance Attribution Analysis, Distribution of accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Portfolio, Full List of Investments, Report of the the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that Directors, the unaudited part of the Directors' Remuneration is described as having been audited.
Report, Corporate Governance Statement, Statement of Directors' Responsibilities, Analysis of Ordinary This report is made solely to the Companys Members, as a Shareholders, Brief History, Dates of Dividend and Interest body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Payments, Glossary of Terms, General Shareholder Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Information, Annual General Meeting Venue, Notice of might state to the Companys Members those matters we Annual General Meeting and the List of Directors and Other are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for Information.
We consider the implications for our Report if no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we we become aware of any apparent misstatements or do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our than the Company and the Companys Members as a body, responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Report, including the Financial Statements which are basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures required to be prepared in accordance with applicable in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to assessment of the significant estimates and judgements the financial statements.
made by the directors in the preparation of the Financial Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and Statements and of whether the accounting policies are the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory applied and adequately disclosed.
requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
information and explanations which we considered necessary We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Statements give a true and fair view and whether the reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Directors is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if information in the Financial Statements and the part of the the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
have not received all the information and explanations we Opinion require for our audit or if information specified by law or the In our opinion: Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at 30 June We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 2004 and of its revenue return for the year then reflects the Companys compliance with the seven ended: and provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are notthe Financial Statements and the part of the Directors required to consider whether the boards statements on Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate Ernst & Young LLP governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Registered Auditor We read other information contained in the Annual Report London and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 7 September 2004 23
