80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 19 Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required by company law to prepare financial statements prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for in business.
In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the safeguard the assets of the Company and Group and to prevent and financial statements: and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bodycote International Plc We have audited the financial statements of Bodycote International plc cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the for the year ended 31 December 2004, which comprise the consolidated Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section, losses and the related notes 1 to 26 together with the reconciliation of including the unaudited part of the Board Report on Remuneration, and net cash ow to movement in net debt, the reconciliation of movements consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent in Group shareholders funds and the accounting policies.
These financial misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the Board BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Report on Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Board Report work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys on Remuneration described as having been audited.
It also includes an members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companys us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements financial statements and the part of the Board Report on Remuneration in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our information contained in the annual report including the Board Report opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation on Remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements of information in the financial statements and the part of the Board and the part of the Board Report on Remuneration described as having Report on Remuneration described as having been audited.
been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
OPINION In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs part of the Board Report on Remuneration described as having been of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies profit of the Group for the year then ended: and Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report the financial statements and part of the Board Report on Remuneration is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has described as having been audited have been properly prepared in not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the accordance with the Companies Act 1985. information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Deloitte & Touche LLP Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Chartered Accountants and Manchester required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control Registered Auditors 1 March 2005 Bodycote Bodycote annual report 2004 annual report 2004 19 19
