Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of We review whether the statement on pages 15 to 18 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC reflects the companys compliance with the seven We have audited the financial statements on pages provisions of the Combined Code specified for our 24 to 35.
We have also audited the information in review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does the directors remuneration report that is described not.
We are not required to consider whether the as having been audited.
boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the This report is made solely to the companys effectiveness of the companys corporate governance members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We read the other information contained in the companys members those matters we are required Annual Report, including the corporate governance to state to them in an auditors report and for no statement and the unaudited part of the directors other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by remuneration report, and consider whether it is law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to consistent with the audited financial statements.
We anyone other than the company and the companys consider the implications for our report if we members as a body, for our audit work, for this become aware of any apparent misstatements or report, or for the opinions we have formed.
material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors are responsible for preparing the We conducted our audit in accordance with Annual Report and the directors remuneration Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices report.
As described on page 21, this includes Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test responsibility for preparing the financial statements basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law disclosures in the financial statements and the part and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
independent auditors, are established in the United It also includes an assessment of the significant Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, estimates and judgements made by the directors in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the preparation of the financial statements, and of and by our professions ethical guidance.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied We report to you our opinion as to whether the and adequately disclosed.
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain directors remuneration report to be audited have all the information and explanations which we been properly prepared in accordance with the considered necessary in order to provide us with Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that our opinion, the directors report is not consistent the financial statements and the part of the with the financial statements, if the company has directors remuneration report to be audited are free not kept proper accounting records, if we have not from material misstatement, whether caused by received all the information and explanations we fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our require for our audit, or if information specified by opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of law regarding directors remuneration and the presentation of information in the financial transactions with the company is not disclosed.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
PAGE 22 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Auditors Report Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company as at 31 January 2004 and of the total return for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Edinburgh, 9 March 2004 PAGE 23 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
