Independent Auditors Report corporate governance procedures or its risk and To the members of control procedures The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc We have audited the financial statements on pages We read the other information contained in the 27 to 40.
We have also audited the information in the Annual Report, including the Corporate Governance Directors' Remuneration Report that is described as Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors' having been audited.
Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We This report is made solely to the Company's members, consider the implications for our report if we become as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the aware of any apparent misstatements or material Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been inconsistencies with the financial statements.
undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we are required to state to Basis of audit opinion them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than audit includes examination, on a test basis, of the Company and the Company's members as a body, evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the financial statements and the part of the Directors' we have formed.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Respective responsibilities of Directors and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation Auditors of the financial statements, and of whether the The Directors are responsible for preparing the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's Annual Report and the Directors' Remuneration circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Report.
As described on page 24, this includes disclosed.
responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as all the information and explanations which we independent Auditors, are established in the United considered necessary in order to provide us with Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and the financial statements and the part of the Directors' by our profession's ethical guidance.
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or We report to you our opinion as to whether the other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we financial statements give a true and fair view and also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation whether the financial statements and the part of the of information in the financial statements and the part Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our Opinion opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with In our opinion: the financial statements, if the Company has not kept the financial statements give a true and fair view of proper accounting records, if we have not received all the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 March the information and explanations we require for our 2004 and of the total return of the Company for audit, or if information specified by law regarding the year then ended: and Directors' remuneration and transactions with the the financial statements and the part of the Company is not disclosed.
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have We review whether the statement on page 20 reflects been properly prepared in accordance with the the Company's compliance with the seven provisions Companies Act 1985. of the Combined Code specified for our review by the KPMG Audit Plc Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not Chartered Accountants required to consider whether the Board's statements Registered Auditor on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Edinburgh form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's 25 May 2004 Page 26 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
