Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC We have audited the financial statements which comprise our audit, or if information specified by law regarding the Statement of Total Return, the Balance Sheet and the Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Cash Flow Statement and the related notes which have been We read the other information contained in the annual prepared under the historical cost convention and the report and consider the implications for our report if we accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting become aware of any apparent misstatements or material policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained information comprises the Chairmans Statement, the in the Directors Remuneration Report the auditable part.
Investment Managers Report, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement report and the financial statements in accordance with reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report The Directors are also responsible for preparing the if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Directors Remuneration Report.
Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements control procedures.
and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the Basis of Audit Opinion opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and any other purpose or to any other person to whom this the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
report is shown or into whose hands it may come save It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, statements give a true and fair view and whether the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report information and explanations which we considered to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to consistent with the financial statements, if the Company give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report received all the information and explanations we require for are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 24 fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs at 31 December 2004 and of its total return and cash flows for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 28 February 2005 25
