Independent Auditors 1 Report To the Members of The Fleming Mercantile We review whether the corporate governance Investment Trust plc statement reflects the Company's compliance with the We have audited the financial statements which seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June comprise the statement of total return, the balance 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of sheet, the cash flow statement and the related notes.
the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it We have also audited the disclosures required by Part does not.
We are not required to consider whether the 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 board's statements on internal control cover all risks contained in the directors remuneration report the and controls, or to form an opinion on the auditable part.
effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual Basis of Audit Opinion report and the financial statements in accordance We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An standards are set out in the statement of directors' audit includes examination, on a test basis, of responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in preparing the directors remuneration report.
the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements assessment of the significant estimates and and the auditable part of the directors remuneration judgements made by the directors in the preparation report in accordance with relevant legal and of the financial statements, and of whether the regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately This report, including the opinion, has been prepared disclosed.
for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving all the information and explanations which we this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any considered necessary in order to provide us with other purpose or to any other person to whom this sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that report is shown or into whose hands it may come the financial statements and the auditable part of the save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in directors remuneration report are free from material writing.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also We report to you our opinion as to whether the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of financial statements give a true and fair view and information in the financial statements.
whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been Opinion properly prepared in accordance with the Companies In our opinion: Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the the financial statements give a true and fair view of directors' report is not consistent with the financial the state of the Companys affairs at 31st January statements, if the Company has not kept proper 2004 and of its total return and cash flows for the accounting records, if we have not received all the year then ended: information and explanations we require for our audit, the financial statements have been properly or if information specified by law regarding directors prepared in accordance with the Companies Act remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
1985: and those parts of the directors remuneration report We read the other information contained in the annual required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies report and consider the implications for our report if Act 1985 have been properly prepared in we become aware of any apparent misstatements or accordance with the Companies Act 1985. material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the  LLP chairmans statement, the investment managers Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors report, the directors' report, the corporate governance London, 27th April 2004 statement, and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report.
1 The financial statements are published on the www.
com its website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited JPMFAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMFAM or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMFAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website or any other website upon which the financial statements may be published and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the financial statements following presentation on a website.
Visitors to any website containing the financial statements need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
