Independent Auditors Report to the members of Friends Provident plc Independent auditors report to the members of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Friends Provident plc information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give We have audited the financial statements on pages 60 to 106. reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part We have also audited the information in the directors of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated This report is made solely to the Companys members, as the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might report to be audited.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Opinion purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the In our opinion: Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit the financial statements give a true and fair view of the work, for this report, or for the opinion we have formed.
state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the year then ended: and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the directors remuneration report.
As described on the financial statements and the part of the directors page 43, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial remuneration report to be audited have been properly statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial KPMG Audit Plc statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Chartered Accountants statements and the part of the directors remuneration report Registered Auditor to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with London the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our 17 March 2005 opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement on pages 42 to 45 reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risks and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
