HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 4:47 pm Page 81 The Company has the authority to purchase Properties up to 385,035,595 of its ordinary shares.
The The Directors are of the opinion that the authority remains valid until the 2005 AGM or, current market value of the Groups properties if earlier, 27 July 2005.
A resolution will be put is not significantly different from the amount at to shareholders to renew the authority at the which they are included in the balance sheet.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as At the date of this report there is a disclosable auditors will be put to shareholders at the interest in the issued share capital notified to 2005 AGM.
the Company in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, by On behalf of the Board Barclays PLC, in respect of 151,196,422 ordinary shares being 3.85% of the current issued ordinary share capital and by The Capital Group Companies, Inc and its affiliates H F Baines in respect of 147,182,021 being 3.75% of the Company Secretary current issued share capital.
1 March 2005 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HBOS plc We have audited the accounts on pages 82 to We also report to you if, in our opinion, the of the significant estimates and judgements 127.
We have also audited the information in the directors report is not consistent with the made by the directors in the preparation of the Report of the Board in relation to remuneration accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounts, and of whether the accounting policies policy and practice that is described on page 62 accounting records, if we have not received all are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, as having been audited.
the information and explanations we require for consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
our audit, or if information specified by law This report is made solely to the Companys We planned and performed our audit so as regarding directors remuneration and members, as a body, in accordance with section to obtain all the information and explanations transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
Our audit work which we considered necessary in order to has been undertaken so that we might state to We review whether the corporate governance provide us with sufficient evidence to give the Companys members those matters we are statement on pages 54 to 58 reflects the reasonable assurance that the accounts and required to state to them in an auditors report Companys compliance with the nine provisions the part of the Report of the Board in relation and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review to remuneration policy and practice to be audited permitted by law, we do not accept or assume by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does are free from material misstatement, whether responsibility to anyone other than the Company not.
We are not required to consider whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
and the Companys members as a body, for our the Boards statements on internal control In forming our opinion we also evaluated audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we cover all risks and controls, or form an the overall adequacy of the presentation have formed.
opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups of information in the accounts and the part corporate governance procedures or its risk of the Report of the Board in relation to Respective responsibilities of directors and control procedures.
remuneration policy and practice to be audited.
and auditors We read the other information contained The directors are responsible for preparing the Opinion in the Annual Report and Accounts, including Annual Report and Accounts and the Report of In our opinion: the corporate governance statement and the Board in relation to remuneration policy and the accounts give a true and fair view of the the unaudited part of the Report of the Board practice.
As described on page 59, this includes state of affairs of the Company and the in relation to remuneration policy and practice, responsibility for preparing the accounts in Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the and consider whether it is consistent with the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law profit of the Group for the year then ended: audited accounts.
We consider the implications and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, and for our report if we become aware of any as independent auditors, are established in the apparent misstatements or material the accounts and the part of the Report of United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing inconsistencies with the accounts.
the Board in relation to remuneration policy Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the and practice to be audited have been Financial Services Authority, and by our Basis of audit opinion properly prepared in accordance with the professions ethical guidance.
We conducted our audit in accordance Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the with Auditing Standards issued by the accounts give a true and fair view and whether Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the accounts and the part of the Report of the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant KPMG Audit Plc Board in relation to remuneration policy and to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts Chartered Accountants practice to be audited have been properly and the part of the Report of the Board Registered Auditor prepared in accordance with the in relation to remuneration policy and practice Edinburgh Companies Act 1985. to be audited.
It also includes an assessment 1 March 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS plc 81
