BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 25 British American Tobacco 25 Directors Report and Accounts 2004 Report of the independent auditors to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements which comprise We review whether the corporate governance statement the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash ow reects the Companys compliance with the nine Provisions statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the interest of British American Tobaccos shareholders, the the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we accounting policies and the related notes including the report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether segmental analyses, the principal subsidiary undertakings and the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and the associates and joint ventures.
We have also audited the controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures Act 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration report or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit and the financial statements in accordance with applicable includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report.
It also responsible for preparing the Directors remuneration report.
also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in are appropriate to the Companys and Groups circumstances, accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to of the Directors remuneration report are free from material any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall consent in writing.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Opinion statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration In our opinion: report have been properly prepared in accordance with the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2004 the Directors report is not consistent with the financial and of the profit and cash ows of the Group for the year statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting then ended: records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified the financial statements have been properly prepared in by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and not disclosed.
those parts of the Directors remuneration report required We read the other information contained in the annual report by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have and consider the implications for our report if we become been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Act 1985. with the financial statements.
The other information comprises  LLP only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration report, the corporate governance statement, the 1 Embankment Place statement of Directors responsibilities, the five year summary, London WC2N 6RH the quarterly analyses of profit, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the Annual Review.
