Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the We also report to you if, in our opinion, the We planned and performed our audit so members of ICAP plc Directors Report is not consistent with the as to obtain all the information and We have audited the Financial Statements Financial Statements, if the Company or explanations which we considered which comprise the profit and loss account, Group has not kept proper accounting necessary in order to provide us with the consolidated balance sheet, the records, if we have not received all the sufficient evidence to give reasonable consolidated statement of total recognised information and explanations we require for assurance that the Financial Statements gains and losses, the consolidated cash our audit, or if information specified by law and the auditable part of the Remuneration flow statement, the Company balance regarding directors remuneration and Committee Report are free from material sheet and the related notes which have transactions is not disclosed.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or been prepared under the historical cost other irregularity or error.
In forming our convention and the accounting policies set We read the other information contained opinion we also evaluated the overall out in the statement of accounting policies.
in the annual report and consider the adequacy of the presentation of information We have also audited the disclosures implications for our report if we become in the Financial Statements.
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the aware of any apparent misstatements or Companies Act 1985 contained in the material inconsistencies with the Financial Opinion Remuneration Committee Report the Statements.
The other information In our opinion: auditable part.
comprises only the Financial Highlights, Group Profile, Developments, Chairmans the Financial Statements give a true and Respective responsibilities of Statement, Group Chief Executive Officers fair view of the state of the affairs of the directors and auditors Review, Operating Review, Group Finance Company and the Group at 31 March The directors responsibilities for preparing Directors Review, Directors and Secretary, 2004 and of the profit and cash flows of the annual report and the Financial Directors Report, Corporate Governance the Group for the year then ended: Statements in accordance with applicable Report and the unaudited part of the the Financial Statements have been United Kingdom law and accounting Remuneration Committee Report.
properly prepared in accordance with the standards are set out in the statement of Companies Act 1985: and directors responsibilities.
The directors are We review whether the corporate those parts of the Remuneration also responsible for preparing the governance statement reflects the Committee Report required by Part 3 of Remuneration Committee Report.
Companys and Groups compliance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 the seven provisions of the Combined Code have been properly prepared in accordance Our responsibility is to audit the Financial issued in June 1998 specified for our with the Companies Act 1985.
Statements and the auditable part of the review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Remuneration Committee Report in Services Authority, and we report if it does accordance with relevant legal and not.
We are not required to consider  LLP regulatory requirements and United whether the boards statements on internal Chartered Accountants and Registered Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the control cover all risks and controls, or to Auditors Auditing Practices Board.
This report, form an opinion on the effectiveness of the including the opinion, has been prepared Groups Corporate Governance procedures London for and only for the Companys members as or its risk and control procedures.
24 May 2004 a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other Basis of audit opinion purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, We conducted our audit in accordance with accept or assume responsibility for any auditing standards issued by the Auditing other purpose or to any other person to Practices Board.
An audit includes whom this report is shown or into whose examination, on a test basis, of evidence hands it may come save where expressly relevant to the amounts and disclosures in agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Committee We report to you our opinion as to whether Report.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial It also includes an assessment of the Statements and the auditable part of the significant estimates and judgements made Remuneration Committee Report have been by the directors in the preparation of the properly prepared in accordance with the Financial Statements, and of whether the Companies Act 1985. accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys and Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
