Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have been prepared control procedures.
under the historical cost convention and the accounting Basis of audit opinion policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant directors remuneration report the auditable part.
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Respective responsibilities of directors and and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
auditors It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual the financial statements, and of whether the accounting report and the financial statements in accordance with policies are appropriate to the company's circumstances, applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
are set out in the statement of directors' responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the remuneration report.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of has been prepared for and only for the companys members information in the financial statements.
as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this Opinion opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other In our opinion: purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly The financial statements give a true and fair view of the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
state of affairs of the company and the Group at 31st December, 2004 and of the profit and cash flows of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Group for the year then ended: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors The financial statements have been properly prepared in remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to Those parts of the directors remuneration report you if, in our opinion, the directors' report is not consistent required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act with the financial statements, if the company has not kept 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the Companies Act 1985. information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors'  LLP remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London.
14th March, 2005 We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we Notes: become aware of any apparent misstatements or material a The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these information comprises only the directors' report, the matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements Executive Chairman's statement, the operating and financial since they were initially presented on the website.
review and the corporate governance statement.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and We review whether the corporate governance statement dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in reflects the Groups compliance with the nine provisions of other jurisdictions.
the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 47
