Report of the Auditors Report of the Auditors to British Telecommunications plc and Ofcom issued in accordance with the Continuation Notice issued to British Telecommunications plc by the Director General of Telecommunications dated 23 July 2003.
The Financial Statements for the Network Business include the 1.
We have examined the financial statements for the Businesses and Statement of costs on a current cost basis, the Statements of costs on Activities on pages 12 to 101 the Financial Statements and the an incremental cost basis with and without Hybrid Adjustments and Standard Service Statements on pages 102 to 121 the Standard the Statement of Detailed LRIC by Bands.
Services Statements, which have been prepared under the current cost convention in accordance with: 3.
The Financial Statements, on pages 12 to 101, include comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2003 first published on 19 the Continuation Notice issued to British Telecommunications plc September 2003, which has been restated to reflect the items disclosed the Company by the Director General of Telecommunications in note 3 to the Financial Statements the Restated Financial dated 23 July 2003 the Continuation Notice.
Notice confirms that Condition 78.5 of the Licence dated 22 June 1984 as amended granted by the Secretary of State for Trade 4.
The Standard Service Statements, on pages 102 to 121 comprise, and Industry to British Telecommunications plc continues to have separate statements of costs and charges for the year ended 31 March effect from 25 July 2003 and as set out in Schedule 1 to the 2004 for each of the Standard Services disclosed on pages 102 to 119 Continuation Notice the Licence : and the related notes on pages 120 to 121.
Oftels Direction under the provisions of licence condition 78.14, 5.
The Standard Services Statements include comparative information for regarding the regulatory Financial Statements of British the year ended 31 March 2003 first published on 19 September 2003 Telecommunications plc dated 27 November 2002 the which has been restated to reflect the items disclosed in note 3 to the Direction : Financial Statements the Restated Standard Service Statements.
the Accounting Documents agreed between the Company and Ofcom previously the Director General of Telecommunications Respective responsibilities of the Company and auditors the Accounting Documents : and 6.
The Company is responsible for preparing and approving, as described the Detailed Attribution Methods DAM the Detailed Valuation on page 6, the Financial Statements and the Standard Service Methodology DVM and the Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Statements.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are Relationships and Parameters R&P.
established in the United Kingdom by the Licence, the Auditing 2.
The Financial Statements comprise separate current cost financial Practices Board and our professions ethical guidance.
statements for the year ended 31 March 2004 for each of the 7.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the Businesses listed on page 2 the Businesses and, insofar as each Standard Service Statements in accordance with relevant legal and Business has been disaggregated in terms of activities of the Business, regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards each of the disaggregated activities listed on page 2 the Activities.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the 7 Report of the Auditors 11.
We read the Definitions of the Businesses and the Glossary of opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company and Ofcom and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or Terms and consider the implications for our report if we become aware assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where Financial Statements or the Standard Service Statements.
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report our opinion as to whether each of the Financial Statements Basis of audit opinion and each of the Restated Financial Statements are fairly presented in 12.
As explained in the Basis of preparation on pages 3 and 4, the accordance with the Accounting Documents and complies with the Company has, by agreement with BT Group plc, its ultimate parent requirements of paragraph 78.6 of the Licence.
We also report whether, company, prepared the Financial Statements and the Standard Service in forming that opinion, having reviewed the Accounting Documents, Statements by disaggregating balances recorded in the general ledgers DAMs DVMs and R&Ps, the DAMs, DVMs and R&Ps are appropriate and other accounting records of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries the to implement the principles contained in the Accounting Documents.
Group maintained in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and 9.
We report our opinion as to whether each of the Standard Service used, in accordance with that Act, for the preparation of the Companys Statements and each of the Restated Standard Service Statements are statutory consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 properly prepared in accordance with the relevant procedures, defined March 2004 and 31 March 2003 the Statutory Financial in the Accounting Documents, DAMs, DVMs and R&Ps, and complies Statements.
with the requirements of paragraph 78.6 c i of the Licence.
We audited the Statutory Financial Statements on which we expressed report whether, in forming our opinion, having reviewed the unqualified audit opinions.
In performing our audit of the Statutory Accounting Documents, DAMs, DVMs and R&Ps, anything has come to Financial Statements we carried out such tests of the transactions and our attention that would lead us to conclude that the principles and balances recorded in the general ledgers and other accounting records procedures contained in the Accounting Documents, DAMs, DVMs and of the Group as we considered necessary to express those opinions.
This R&Ps have not been properly applied in the preparation of the costs included examination and evaluation of the Companys principal and charges disclosed in the Standard Service Statements.
accounting and control systems in conjunction with the Companys 10.
In addition, we report if, in our opinion, the Introduction by the Internal Audit Department IAD, analytical review of key balances Company, setting out the basis upon which the Financial Statements in conjunction with the Companys Finance Departments, assessment and the Standard Service Statements have been prepared, is not of the accuracy of the coding of transactions and balances, inquiries of consistent with the Financial Statements or the Standard Service directors and managers of the Company, substantive tests of balances, Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if and transactions recorded in the Groups general ledgers and review we have not received all the information and explanations we require and assessment of the work of IAD.
Our statutory audit work was for our examination, or if information specified by the Licence is not performed throughout the respective years and concluded upon disclosed.
8 Report of the Auditors Statements are properly prepared in accordance with the procedures, signature of our opinions on the Statutory Financial Statements.
In conducting our subsequent examination of the Financial Statements defined in the relevant Accounting Documents, DAMs, DVMs and and the Standard Service Statements, and in providing the opinions in R&Ps.
However, as explained in the introduction to the Accounting paragraphs 19 and 20 below, we have not performed any additional Documents, the Accounting Documents contain only the high level tests of the transactions and balances which are recorded in the principles of attribution.
The DAMs, DVMs and R&Ps contain only the general ledgers and other accounting records beyond those already procedures describing how these high level principles are applied.
In performed for the purpose of our audits of the Statutory Financial forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Statements.
presentation of information in the Standard Service Statements.
Having regard to the above: 15.
In forming our opinion on the Financial Statements we also reviewed the Companys DAMs, DVMs and R&Ps which describe how the i we conducted our examination of the Financial Statements and the principles contained in the Accounting Documents are implemented.
Standard Service Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Our review consisted of reading the DAMs, DVMs and R&Ps and Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our work considering whether each of the significant attribution and valuation included examination on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the methodologies described in these documents are consistent with the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the Standard principles described on pages 1 and 2 of the Accounting Documents.
In respect of the Financial Statements only, it also included an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements 16.
In forming our opinion on the Standard Service Statements we also made by the Company in the preparation of those Financial reviewed the Companys Accounting Documents, DAMs, DVMs and Statements: R&Ps.
Our review consisted of reading the Accounting Documents, DAMs, DVMs and R&Ps and considering whether any of the principles ii we planned and performed our examination of the Financial and procedures described in these documents have not been properly Statements so as to obtain all the information and explanations which applied in preparing the Standard Service Statements.
we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are fairly 17.
Many of the Groups revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are not presented in accordance with the relevant Accounting Documents and, directly identifiable with individual activities, and the preparation of on that basis, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by the Financial Statements requires a significant number of fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also apportionments.
As explained on pages 3 and 4 the Basis of evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in preparation, in selecting appropriate attribution methods and the Financial Statements: appropriate non-financial data for use within the attribution models employed in the production of the Financial Statements, the Company iii we planned and performed our examination of the Standard has had to make certain estimates and exercise its judgement, having Service Statements so as to obtain all the information and explanations regard to the regulatory principles specified in the Accounting which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient Documents, including cost causality and objectivity, in order to comply evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Standard Service 9 Report of the Auditors employed of, and costs incurred by, each of the Businesses and each of with the requirements of the Accounting Documents.
The Company has informed Ofcom that attribution methods and non-financial data the Activities: sources will be subject to ongoing review and, where deemed c Each of the Restated Financial Statements of each of the Businesses appropriate, improvement.
and each of the Activities for the year ended 31 March 2003 which have been prepared in accordance with the Accounting Documents 18.
The Company is required by the Licence to file the Financial dated 19 September 2003, subject to restatement in respect of the Statements and the Standard Service Statements with Ofcom prior to items described in note 3 to the Financial Statements, fairly presents publication on 31 August 2004.
The Company is also required to in accordance with the Accounting Documents dated 19 September publish with the Financial Statements and Standard Service 2003, subject to restatement in respect of the items described in note 3 Statements any written statement provided to the Company prior to to the Financial Statements, the results and mean capital employed of, publication made by Ofcom previously by the Director General of and costs incurred by each of the Businesses and each of the Activities: Telecommunications commenting on the data in, the notes to, or the presentation of the Financial Statements and the Standard Service d In the context of b above, having reviewed the Accounting Statements.
Our examination was completed on 17 August 2004 on Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 17 August 2004 the DAM, signature of this report.
Accordingly, our examination did not take DVM and R&P all dated 17 August 2004 are appropriate to implement account of matters which are the subject of ongoing discussion or any the principles contained in the Accounting Documents dated 17 August other matters which may arise from Ofcom`s review of the Financial 2004: Statements and which may be included in a Written Statement by e In the context of c above, having reviewed the Accounting Documents, Ofcom.
DAM, DVM and R&P, all dated 19 September 2003, the DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 19 September 2003 are appropriate to implement Opinion in respect of Businesses and Activities the principles contained in the Accounting Documents dated 19 September 2003.
In our opinion: a Each of the Financial Statements of each of the Businesses and each of Opinion in respect of Standard Services the Activities complies with the requirements of paragraph 78.6 of the Licence: 20.
In our opinion: b Each of the Financial Statements of each of the Businesses and each of a Each of the Standard Service Statements complies with the the Activities for the year ended 31 March 2004 which have been requirements of paragraph 78.6 c i of the Licence: prepared in accordance with the Accounting Documents dated 17 b Each of the Standard Service Statements for the year ended 31 March August 2004 fairly presents in accordance with the Accounting 2004 has been properly prepared in accordance with the procedures, if Documents dated 17 August 2004 the results and mean capital any, defined in the Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 17 August 2004: and 10 Report of the Auditors c Each of the Restated Standard Service Statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 has been properly prepared in accordance with the procedures, if any, defined in the Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 19 September 2003, subject to restatement in respect of the items described in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
d In the context of b above, having reviewed the Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 17 August 2004 nothing has come to our attention that would lead us to conclude that the principles and procedures contained in the Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 17 August 2004 have not been properly applied in the preparation of the costs and charges disclosed in the Standard Service Statements for the year ended 31 March 2004. e In the context of c above having reviewed the Accounting Documents DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 19 September 2003, nothing has come to our attention that would lead us to conclude that the principles and procedures contained in the Accounting Documents DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 19 September 2003 have not been properly applied in the preparation of the costs and charges disclosed in the Restated Standard Statements for the year ended 31 March 2003.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, 17 August 2004 11
