Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of We read other information contained in the Annual JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Investment Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Trust plc audited financial statements.
This other information We have audited the Companys financial statements for comprises the Chairmans Statement, Investment the year ended 31st March 2004 which comprise the Managers Report, Facts, Figures, Performance and Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Discount, Financial Record, Ten Largest Investments, Statement, and the related notes 1 to 19.
These financial Features of the Portfolio, Portfolio Analysis, Shareholder statements have been prepared on the basis of the Analysis, Investment Activity and Exchange Rates, List of accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Investments, Board of Directors, Directors Report, that information in the Directors Remuneration Report Corporate Governance statement the unaudited part of that is described as having been audited.
the Directors Remuneration Report, Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts, Notice of This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Annual General Meeting, Information about the Company a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies and Investing through JPMorgan Fleming.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we the implications for our report if we become aware of any might state to the Companys members those matters we apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies are required to state to them in an auditors report and within the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by not extend to any other information.
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as Basis of audit opinion a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the We conducted our audit in accordance with United opinions we have formed.
Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Report, including the financial statements which are Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also required to be prepared in accordance with applicable includes an assessment of the significant estimates and United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation the financial statements, and of whether the accounting to the financial statements.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the information and explanations which we considered requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
to give reasonable assurance that the financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements give a true and fair view and whether the Report to be audited are free from material financial statements and the part of the Directors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report information in the financial statements and the part of is not consistent with the financial statements, if the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Opinion have not received all the information and explanations In our opinion: we require for our audit, or if information specified by law the financial statements give a true and fair view of or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration the state of affairs of the Company as at 31st March and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
2004 and of its revenue for the year then ended: and We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement the financial statements and the part of the Directors reflects the Companys compliance with the seven Remuneration Report to be audited have been provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review properly prepared in accordance with the Companies by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are Act 1985. not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate ERNST & YOUNG LLP governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Registered Auditor London, 22nd June 2004 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 33
