Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan Fleming Japanese in our opinion, the Directors Report is not Investment Trust plc consistent with the financial statements, if the We have audited the financial statements of Company has not kept proper accounting records, JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Investment Trust plc if we have not received all the information and for the year ended 30th September 2004 which explanations we require for our audit, or if comprise the Statement of Total Return, the information specified by law regarding Directors Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the remuneration and transactions with the Company related notes.
We have also audited the is not disclosed.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report We read the other information contained in the that is described as having been audited.
Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Respective responsibilities of Directors and misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Auditors financial statements.
The other information The Directors responsibilities for preparing the comprises only the Directors Report, the annual report, the Directors Remuneration Report unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration and the financial statements in accordance with Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Investment applicable United Kingdom law and accounting Managers Report and the corporate governance standards are set out in the statement of Directors statement.
We review whether the corporate governance Our responsibility is to audit the financial statement reflects the Companys compliance with statements and the auditable part of the Directors the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing legal and regulatory requirement and United Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the report if it does not.
We are not required to Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the consider whether the Boards statements on opinion, has been prepared for and only for the internal control cover all risks and controls, or to Companys members as a body in accordance with form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no Companys corporate governance procedures or its other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, risk and control procedures.
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this Basis of audit opinion report is shown or into whose hands it may come We conducted our audit in accordance with save where expressly agreed by our prior consent auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices in writing.
An audit includes examination, on a test We report to you our opinion as to whether the basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and financial statements give a true and fair view disclosures in the financial statements and the whether the financial statements and the part of part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited audited.
It also includes an assessment of the have been properly prepared in accordance with significant estimates and judgements made by the the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, directors in the preparation of the financial 28 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese statements, and of whether the accounting policies Opinion are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, In our opinion: consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs at We planned and performed our audit so as to 30th September 2004 and of its total return obtain all the information and explanations which and cash flows for the year then ended: and we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the financial statements and the part of the assurance that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report required to be part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in audited are free from material misstatement, accordance with the Companies Act 1985. whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of BEGBIES EVERETT CHETTLE information in the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, 10th November 2004 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 29
