Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 4 to 28.
We have consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent is described as having been audited.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Basis of audit opinion in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors adequately disclosed.
The directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As described above, this includes We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused the Financial Services Authority and by our professions ethical guidance.
by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part to be audited.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Opinion to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the In our opinion: financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs we require for our audit or if information specified by law regarding of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
profit of the Group for the year then ended: and We review whether the corporate governance statement on pages 2 and 3 the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with FRC code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it the Companies Act 1985. does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We read the other information contained in the financial statements, Registered Auditor including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part London of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is 28 February 2005 29 Bunzl plc
