STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements The directors confirm that they comply with the above requirements.
for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of The directors are also responsible for: affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period, and which comply with the relevant ensuring that the Company and Group have suitable internal provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
In preparing those financial controls for maintaining proper accounting records, which disclose statements, the directors are required to: with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group: and make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud state whether applicable accounting standards have been and other irregularities.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Legal & General Group Plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit Basis of Audit Opinion and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash ow statement, the We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom and adequately disclosed.
law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us directors remuneration report.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Opinion In our opinion: Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come affairs of the company and of the group at 31 December 2004 and save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
of the profit and cash ows of the group for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements have been properly prepared in give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and  LLP consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial London, 23 February 2005 statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, a The financial statements are published on the website of the chairmans statement, the operating and financial review Legal & General Group Plc, www.
The and the corporate governance statement.
maintenance and integrity of the Legal & General Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out We review whether the corporate governance statement reects by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the changes that may have occurred to the financial statements Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not since they were initially presented on the website.
required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation or its risk and control procedures.
