independent auditors report to the members of Burren Energy plc We have audited the financial statements of Burren Energy plc for the year Basis of audit opinion ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing account, the note of historical cost profits and losses, the consolidated standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes statement of total recognised gains and losses, the balance sheets, the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and consolidated cash ow statement and the related notes 1 to 33.
These disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether or for the opinions we have formed.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting Opinion standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other In our opinion: information contained in the Annual Report including the Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and profit of the Group for the year then ended: and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the financial statements and part of the Directors remuneration report We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give described as having been audited have been properly prepared in a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Deloitte & Touche LLP Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the FRC Code Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services London Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider 4 April 2005 whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 35
