Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF LONDON STOCK audit, or if information specified by law We planned and performed our audit EXCHANGE PLC regarding directors remuneration and so as to obtain all the information and We have audited the financial statements transactions is not disclosed.
explanations which we considered which comprise the profit and loss necessary in order to provide us with account, the balance sheets, the cash We read the other information contained sufficient evidence to give reasonable flow statement and the related notes.
in the annual report and consider the assurance that the financial statements We have also audited the disclosures implications for our report if we become and the auditable part of the Remuneration required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the aware of any apparent misstatements or report are free from material misstatement, Companies Act 1985 contained in the material inconsistencies with the financial whether caused by fraud or other Remuneration report the auditable part.
The other information irregularity or error.
In forming our comprises only the Directors report, opinion we also evaluated the overall RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF the unaudited part of the Remuneration adequacy of the presentation of DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS report, the chairmans statement, the information in the financial statements.
The directors responsibilities for operating and financial review and the preparing the annual report and the corporate governance statement.
OPINION financial statements in accordance with In our opinion: applicable United Kingdom law and We review whether the corporate the financial statements give a true accounting standards are set out in the governance statement reflects the and fair view of the state of affairs statement of directors responsibilities.
Companys compliance with the seven of the Company and the Group at The directors are also responsible for provisions of the Combined Code 31 March 2004 and of the profit and preparing the Remuneration report.
specified for our review by the Listing cash flows of the Group for the year Our responsibility is to audit the financial Rules of the Financial Services Authority, then ended statements and the auditable part of the and we report if it does not.
We are not Remuneration report in accordance with required to consider whether the Boards the financial statements have been relevant legal and regulatory statements on internal control cover all properly prepared in accordance with requirements and United Kingdom risks and controls, or to form an opinion the Companies Act 1985 Auditing Standards issued by the on the effectiveness of the Groups Auditing Practices Board.
This report, corporate governance procedures or its those parts of the Remuneration including the opinion, has been prepared risk and control procedures.
report required by Part 3 of Schedule for and only for the Companys members 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have as a body in accordance with Section BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION been properly prepared in accordance 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and We conducted our audit in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. for no other purpose.
We do not, in with auditing standards issued by the giving this opinion, accept or assume Auditing Practices Board.
An audit  LLP responsibility for any other purpose or includes examination, on a test basis, Chartered Accountants and to any other person to whom this report of evidence relevant to the amounts and Registered Auditors is shown or into whose hands it may disclosures in the financial statements London come save where expressly agreed by and the auditable part of the Remuneration 20 May 2004 our prior consent in writing.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements We report to you our opinion as to made by the directors in the preparation whether the financial statements give of the financial statements, and of a true and fair view and whether the whether the accounting policies are financial statements and the auditable appropriate to the Companys part of the Remuneration report have circumstances, consistently applied been properly prepared in accordance and adequately disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 47
