The Merchants Trust PLC Independent Auditors Report To the members of The Merchants Trust PLC We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement We have audited the financial statements which comprise the reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of Statement of Total Return, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow the Combined Code issued in June 1998, specified for our Statement and notes 1 to 20, which have been prepared under review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider certain fixed assets and the accounting policies set out in the whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and Act 1985 contained in the Directors Remuneration Report control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes and the financial statements in accordance with applicable examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the the statement of directors responsibilities.
The Directors are auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also also responsible for preparing the directors remuneration includes an assessment of the significant estimates and report.
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been information and explanations which we considered necessary in prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion: statements and the auditable part of the Directors the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in of the Companys affairs at 31 January 2004 and of its total accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to return and cash flows for the year then ended: you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent the financial statements have been properly prepared in with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required information specified by law regarding directors remuneration by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have and transactions is not disclosed.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with  LLP the financial statements.
The other information comprises only Chartered Accountants the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the unaudited and Registered Auditors part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Investment London Managers Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
