Report of the Independent Auditor to the members of Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year We read the other information contained in the Annual Report ended 31 March 2004, which comprise the Consolidated and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Revenue Account and Statement of Total Return, Balance statements.
This other information comprises the Performance Sheets, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related Record, Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, notes 1 to 22.
These financial statements have been prepared Ten Largest Investments, Investments, Portfolio Analysis, Analysis on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
The of Shareholders, Base Costs, Management and Administration, financial statements have been prepared on a break up basis.
Shareholder Information, Notice of Annual General Meeting and We have also audited the information in the Directors Glossary.
We consider the implications for our report if we Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a do not extend to any other information.
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Basis of audit opinion state to the Companys members those matters we are required We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom to state to them in an independent auditors report and for no Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Respective responsibilities of directors and the auditor judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and and adequately disclosed.
accounting standards are set out in the Statement on Corporate We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Governance and Directors Responsibilities.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in assurance that the financial statements and the part of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Financial Services Authority.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Report to be audited.
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, In our opinion: the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting i the financial statements give a true and fair view of the records, if we have not received all the information and state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at explanations we require for our audit, or if the information 31 March 2004 and of the revenue of the Group for the year specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors then ended: and remuneration and transactions with the Group are not disclosed.
ii the financial statements and the part of the Directors We review whether the statement on Corporate Governance Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly and Directors Responsibilities reflects the Groups compliance prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for Ernst & Young LLP our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We Registered Auditor are not required to consider whether the Boards statement on London internal controls covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion 1 June 2004 on the effectiveness of either the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc 23
