Report of the Independent Auditor to the members of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year We read the other information contained in the Annual Report ended 31 December 2004, which comprise the Consolidated and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Revenue Account and Statement of Total Return, Balance statements.
This other information comprises the Performance Sheets, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related Record, Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, notes 1 to 24.
These financial statements have been prepared Ten Largest Investments, Investments, Portfolio Analysis, Directors on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report, Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities, Report that is described as having been audited.
Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders, Base Cost, Management & Administration, Shareholder Information, Notice of Annual This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a General Meeting and Glossary.
We consider the implications for body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our state to the Companys members those matters we are required responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant report, or for the opinions we have formed.
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and Respective responsibilities of directors and the auditor the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and including the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the statements which are required to be prepared in accordance financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied Their responsibilities are set out in the Statement on Corporate and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the information and explanations which we considered necessary in part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, assurance that the financial statements and the part of the United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Financial Services Authority.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Report to be audited.
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, Opinion the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial In our opinion: statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting i the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state records, if we have not received all the information and of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at explanations we require for our audit, or if the information 31 December 2004 and of the revenue of the Group for the specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors year then ended: and remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
ii the financial statements and the part of the Directors We review whether the statement on Corporate Governance Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly and Directors Responsibilities reflects the Groups compliance prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. with the nine provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are Ernst & Young LLP not required to consider whether the Boards statement on Registered Auditor internal controls covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion London on the effectiveness of either the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
14 February 2005 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 27
