INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Monks Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements requirements and United Kingdom Auditing explanations we require for our audit, or if which comprise the statement of total return, Standards issued by the Auditing Practices information specified by law regarding the balance sheet, the cash flow statement Board.
This report, including the opinion, has Directors remuneration and transactions is not and the related notes 1 to 25 of the financial been prepared for and only for the disclosed.
We have also audited the Companys members as a body in disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A accordance with Section 235 of the We read the other information contained in to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Companies Act 1985 and for no other the Annual Report and consider the Directors Remuneration Report the auditable purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, implications for our report if we become part.
accept or assume responsibility for any other aware of any apparent misstatements or purpose or to any other person to whom this material inconsistencies with the financial report is shown or into whose hands it may statements.
The other information comprises Respective responsibilities of come save where expressly agreed by our only the Directors Report, the unaudited part Directors and Auditors prior consent in writing.
of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement and the Managers The Directors responsibilities for preparing We report to you our opinion as to whether Report.
the Annual Report, the Directors the financial statements give a true and fair Remuneration Report and the financial view and whether the financial statements We review whether the corporate statements in accordance with applicable and the auditable part of the Directors governance statement reflects the Companys United Kingdom law and accounting Remuneration Report have been properly compliance with the seven provisions of the standards are set out in the Statement of prepared in accordance with the Companies Combined Code issued in June 1998 Directors Responsibilities.
We also report to you if, in our specified for our review by the Listing Rules of opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent the Financial Services Authority, and we Our responsibility is to audit the financial with the financial statements, if the Company report if it does not.
We are not required to statements and the auditable part of the has not kept proper accounting records, if we consider whether the Boards statements on Directors Remuneration Report in accordance have not received all the information and internal control cover all risks and controls, or with relevant legal and regulatory 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the reasonable assurance that the financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companys corporate governance procedures statements and the auditable part of the Companies Act 1985. or its risk and control procedures.
Directors Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by  LLP fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming Basis of audit opinion Chartered Accountants and our opinion we also evaluated the overall Registered Auditors adequacy of the presentation of information We conducted our audit in accordance with Edinburgh in the financial statements.
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing 16 June 2004 Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Opinion financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also In our opinion: includes an assessment of the significant the financial statements give a true and fair estimates and judgements made by the view of the state of the Companys affairs Directors in the preparation of the financial at 30 April 2004 and of its total return and statements, and of whether the accounting cash flows for the year then ended: policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and the financial statements have been properly adequately disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations those parts of the Directors Remuneration which we considered necessary in order to Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A provide us with sufficient evidence to give to the Companies Act 1985 have been THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35
