Independent Auditors Report to the members of Murray Income Trust PLC We have audited the Companys Financial Statements for the Corporate Summary, Your Board, Highlights, Historical the year ended 30 June 2004 which comprise the Financial Record, Ten Year Record, Chairmans Statement, Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Summary of Investment Changes during the year, Statement, and the related notes 1 to 19.
These Financial Summary of Net Assets, Distribution of Investments, Statements have been prepared on the basis of the Sector Comparison with Benchmark, Investment Managers accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Review, Twenty Largest Investments, Portfolio of the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Investments, unaudited part of the Directors that is described as having been audited.
Remuneration Report, Directors Report, Statement of Corporate Governance, Notice of Meeting, Information This report is made solely to the Companys members, as about the Manager, Shareholder Information, Marketing a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Strategy, Other Ways to Invest in Murray Income Trust Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we PLC, Glossary of Terms and Definitions and Corporate might state to the Companys members those matters we Information.
We consider the implications for our report if are required to state to them in an auditors report and for we become aware of any apparent misstatements or no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Our responsibilities do not extend to any other than the Company and the Companys members as a information.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Report, including the Financial Statements which are basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures required to be prepared in accordance with applicable in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation assessment of the significant estimates and to the Financial Statements.
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
the information and explanations which we considered We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Statements give a true and fair view and whether the to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements Financial Statements and the part of the Directors and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if the presentation of information in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we audited.
have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and Opinion transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
In our opinion: We review whether the Statement of Corporate the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of Governance reflects the Companys compliance with the the state of affairs of the Company as at 30 June seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our 2004 and of its net return for the year then ended: and review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards the Financial Statements and the part of the statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 28 September 2004 Glasgow Financial Statements.
This other information comprises Murray Income Trust PLC 37
