Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC We have audited the Companys financial statements for the year Summary, Your Board, Highlights, Historic Financial Record, Ten ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the Statement of Total Year Record, Chairmans Statement, Summary of Investment Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes Changes during the Year, Summary of Net Assets, Portfolio of 1 to 19.
These financial statements have been prepared on the Investments - Twenty Largest Investments, Portfolio of basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Investments, The Investment Process, Investment Managers audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Report, Attribution Analysis, Distribution of Investments, that is described as having been audited.
Distribution of Equity Investments, Directors Report, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Statement of This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Corporate Governance, Information about the Manager, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Shareholder Information, Marketing Strategy, Other ways to audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Invest in Murray International Trust PLC, Glossary of Terms and Companys members those matters we are required to state to Definitions and Corporate Information.
We consider the them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, information.
or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An including the financial statements which are required to be audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of Directors the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It Responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary in statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to assurance that the financial statements and the part of the be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the have not received all the information and explanations we require financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Report to be audited.
Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
Opinion In our opinion: We review whether the Statement of Corporate Governance reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of state of affairs of the Company as at 31 December 2004 the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We and of its net revenue for the year then ended: and are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on the financial statements and the part of the Directors internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Ernst & Young LLP consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Registered Auditor statements.
This other information comprises the Corporate 18 March 2005 Edinburgh Murray International Trust PLC 41
