Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 47 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the Group Profit and governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Loss Account, Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Group Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Group Cash consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 31.
This other information comprises Highlights, statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting Overview, Chairmans Statement, Operational Review, policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information Financial Review, Board of Directors, Environmental & Social in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Review, Corporate Governance Statement, Directors Report, having been audited.
unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Reserves, Principle Licence Interests, Five Year Summary, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Company Information, Notice of Annual General Meeting, body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Glossary and the accompanying Form of Proxy.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the implications for our report if we become aware of any state to the Companys members those matters we are apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not other information.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Basis of audit opinion work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and including the financial statements which are required to be the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and and accounting standards as set out in the Directors judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Responsibility Statement in relation to the financial statements financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies included in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 28. are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently The directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the information and explanations which we considered necessary part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are the Financial Services Authority.
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial information in the financial statements and the part of the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our Opinion opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the In our opinion: financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information the financial statements give a true and fair view and explanations we require for our audit, or if information of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors 31 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it Ernst & Young LLP does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards Registered Auditor, Edinburgh statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 19 April 2005
