16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 47 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NORTHERN ROCK PLC We have audited the financial statements, which We read the other information contained in the OPINION comprise the consolidated profit and loss Annual Report and consider the implications for In our opinion: our report if we become aware of any apparent account, the consolidated balance sheet, the the financial statements give a true and fair misstatements or material inconsistencies with company balance sheet, the consolidated cash view of the state of affairs of the Company the financial statements.
The other information flow statement, the statement of total and the Group at 31 December 2004 and of comprises only the Chairmans Statement, recognised gains and losses and the related the profit and cash flows of the Group for the the Chief Executives Report, the Corporate notes.
We have also audited the disclosures year then ended: Governance statement, the Community and required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Environmental Report, the Northern Rock Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors the financial statements have been properly Foundation report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report the auditable part.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Directors Remuneration Report, the Operating Act 1985: and RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES and Financial Review and the Directors' Report.
those parts of the Directors Remuneration OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS We review whether the Corporate Governance Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to The Directors responsibilities for preparing the statement reflects the Companys compliance the Companies Act 1985 have been properly Annual Report and the financial statements in with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC prepared in accordance with the Companies accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Combined Code specified for our review by the and accounting standards are set out in the Act 1985.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, statement of Directors' responsibilities.
The and we report if it does not.
We are not  LLP Directors are also responsible for preparing the required to consider whether the Boards Chartered Accountants and Directors Remuneration Report.
statements on internal control cover all risks Registered Auditors and controls, or form an opinion on the Our responsibility is to audit the financial Newcastle upon Tyne effectiveness of the Companys or Groups statements and the auditable part of the 22 February 2005 corporate governance procedures or its risk Directors Remuneration Report in accordance and control procedures.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, We conducted our audit in accordance with including the opinion, has been prepared for and auditing standards issued by the Auditing only for the Companys members as a body in Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, accordance with Section 235 of the Companies on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, amounts and disclosures in the financial in giving this opinion, accept or assume statements and the auditable part of the responsibility for any other purpose or to any Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes other person to whom this report is shown or an assessment of the significant estimates and into whose hands it may come save where judgements made by the Directors in the expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate We report to you our opinion as to whether the to the company's circumstances, consistently financial statements give a true and fair view and applied and adequately disclosed.
whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration We planned and performed our audit so as to Report have been properly prepared in obtain all the information and explanations which accordance with the Companies Act 1985. we considered necessary in order to provide us We also report to you if, in our opinion, the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Directors' Report is not consistent with the assurance that the financial statements and the financial statements, if the Company has not auditable part of the Directors Remuneration kept proper accounting records, if we have not Report are free from material misstatement, received all the information and explanations we whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or require for our audit, or if information specified error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated by law regarding directors' remuneration and the overall adequacy of the presentation of transactions is not disclosed.
information in the financial statements.
