56 | Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Old Mutual plc for the year ended 31 December 2004 We have audited the financial statements set out on pages 57 to 137.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued report that is described as having been audited.
by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the adequately disclosed.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report directors remuneration report.
As described on page 53, this includes to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing report to be audited.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
OPINION In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. profit of the Group for the year then ended: and We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept the financial statements and the part of directors remuneration report proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified Companies Act 1985. by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We review whether the Corporate Governance and Directors Report Registered Auditor on pages 26 to 41 reflects the Companys compliance with the nine 8 Salisbury Square provisions of the 2003 Financial Reporting Council Code specified for London EC4Y 8BB our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control 28 February 2005 cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
