INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements with the financial statements, if the Company Respective responsibilities on pages 36 to 49.
We have also audited has not kept proper accounting records, if of Directors and Auditors the information in the Directors Remuneration we have not received all the information and The Directors are responsible for preparing Report that is described as having been explanations we require for our audit, or if the Annual Report and the Directors audited.
information specified by law regarding Remuneration Report.
As described on Directors remuneration and transactions This report is made solely to the Companys page 33, this includes responsibility for with the Company is not disclosed.
members, as a body, in accordance with preparing the financial statements in section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. accordance with applicable United We review whether the statement on pages Our audit work has been undertaken so Kingdom law and accounting standards.
26 to 29 reflects the Companys compliance that we might state to the Companys Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, with the seven provisions of the Combined members those matters we are required to are established in the United Kingdom by Code specified for our review by the Listing state to them in an auditors report and for statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Rules, and we report if it does not.
To the fullest extent Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, not required to consider whether the Boards permitted by law, we do not accept or and by our professions ethical guidance.
statements on internal control cover all risks assume responsibility to anyone other than and controls, or form an opinion on the the Company and the Companys members We report to you our opinion as to whether effectiveness of the Companys corporate as a body, for our audit work, for this the financial statements give a true and fair governance procedures or its risk and control report, or for the opinions we have formed.
view and whether the financial statements procedures.
and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly We read the other information contained in prepared in accordance with the Companies the Annual Report, including the corporate Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our governance statement and the unaudited part opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent of the Directors Remuneration Report, and 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT consider whether it is consistent with the financial statements, and of whether the Opinion audited financial statements.
We consider accounting policies are appropriate to the In our opinion: the implications for our report if we become Companys circumstances, consistently aware of any apparent misstatements or applied and adequately disclosed.
the financial statements give a true and fair material inconsistencies with the financial view of the state of affairs of the Company We planned and performed our audit so as statements.
as at 31 March 2004 and of its total to obtain all the information and explanations return for the year then ended: and which we considered necessary in order to Basis of audit opinion the financial statements and the part of the provide us with sufficient evidence to give Directors Remuneration Report to be audited We conducted our audit in accordance reasonable assurance that the financial have been properly prepared in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the statements and the part of the Directors with the Companies Act 1985.
An audit includes Remuneration Report to be audited are free examination, on a test basis, of evidence from material misstatement, whether caused relevant to the amounts and disclosures in by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In KPMG Audit Plc the financial statements and the part of the forming our opinion we also evaluated the Chartered Accountants Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
overall adequacy of the presentation of Registered Auditor It also includes an assessment of the information in the financial statements and Edinburgh significant estimates and judgements made the part of the Directors Remuneration Report by the Directors in the preparation of the to be audited.
10 May 2004 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35
