40 Report of the Auditor We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, Independent Auditors Report to the including the corporate governance statement and the Members of The Second Alliance Trust PLC unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and We have audited the financial statements on pages 41 to 51. consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial We have also audited the information in the directors statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a inconsistencies with the financial statements.
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Basis of audit opinion state to the Companys members those matters we are required We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards to state to them in an auditors report and for no other issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and Company and the Companys members as a body for our audit the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Respective Responsibilities of Directors financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are and Auditors appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the directors remuneration report.
As described on page We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all 33, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial the information and explanations which we considered statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to report to be audited.
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, Opinion the directors report is not consistent with the financial In our opinion: statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting the financial statements give a true and fair view of the records, if we have not received all the information and state of affairs of the Company as at 31 July 2004 and of explanations we require for our audit, or if information the total return for the year then ended: and specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly We review whether the statement on pages 28 to 35 reflect the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, KPMG Audit Plc and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Chartered Accountants whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all Registered Auditor risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Edinburgh the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risks and 20 September 2004 control procedures.
