Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Singer & Friedlander Group PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 42 the information and explanations we require for our to 76.
We have also audited the information in the audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors Remuneration Report that is described as directors remuneration and transactions with the having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys We review whether the Corporate Governance members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 Statement on pages 22 to 28 reflects the Companys of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, members those matters we are required to state to and we report if it does not.
We are not required to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
consider whether the Boards statements on internal To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate the Company and the Companys members as a body, governance procedures or its risk and control for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the Corporate Governance Respective Responsibilities of Directors Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors and Auditors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual consistent with the audited financial statements.
We Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As consider the implications for our report if we become described on page 38 this includes responsibility for aware of any apparent misstatements or material preparing the financial statements in accordance with inconsistencies with the financial statements.
applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent Basis of Audit Opinion Auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our audit includes examination, on a test basis, of professions ethical guidance.
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in We report to you our opinion as to whether the the financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements give a true and fair view and Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an whether the financial statements and the part of the assessment of the significant estimates and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have judgements made by the directors in the preparation been properly prepared in accordance with the of the financial statements, and of whether the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with circumstances, consistently applied and adequately the financial statements, if the Company has not kept disclosed.
proper accounting records, if we have not received all 40 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Independent Auditors Report We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Opinion all the information and explanations which we In our opinion: considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial statements and the part of the Directors the state of affairs of the Company and the Group Remuneration Report to be audited are free from as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit of the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Group for the year then ended: and other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we the financial statements and the part of the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have presentation of information in the financial statements been properly prepared in accordance with the and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Companies Act 1985. be audited.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 11 March 2005 Independent Auditors Report Report and Accounts 2004 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 41
