Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Carillion plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 42 to 71.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it Report that is described as having been audited.
is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Basis of audit opinion members those matters we are required to state to them in an We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As described on page 40, this adequately disclosed.
includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are information and explanations which we considered necessary in established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by assurance that the financial statements and the part of the our professions ethical guidance.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the presentation of information in the financial statements and the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not Opinion consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept In our opinion: proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 Group is not disclosed.
and of the result of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement on pages Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance 24 to 29 reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions with the Companies Act 1985. of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether KPMG Audit Plc the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, Chartered Accountants or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Registered Auditor governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Birmingham 9 March 2005 41 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accountability 05
