Independent Auditors Report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 70 to 120. part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether We have also audited the information in the directors it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, financial statements.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state Basis of audit opinion to the Companys members those matters we are required to We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an report, or for the opinions we have formed.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately and the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 68, disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements all the information and explanations which we considered in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited be audited.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors Opinion report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the In our opinion: Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state received all the information and explanations we require for our of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the and Group is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly We review whether the corporate governance statement on prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. pages 48 to 53 reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures of its risk and KPMG Audit Plc control procedures.
Chartered Accountants We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, Registered Auditor including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited London, 16 February 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 69
