SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 38 Independent auditors report to SVG Capital plc We have audited the Groups accounts for We review whether the Corporate Governance Opinion the year ended 31 December 2004 which Statement reflects the Companys compliance In our opinion: comprise the Consolidated Statement of with the seven provisions of the Combined the accounts give a true and fair view of the Total Return, Company Statement of Code specified for our review by the Listing state of affairs of the Company and of the Total Return, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash not required to consider whether the Boards total return of the group for the year then Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 30. statements on internal control cover all risks ended: and These accounts have been prepared on the and controls, or form an opinion on the the accounts and the part of the Directors basis of the accounting policies set out effectiveness of the Companys corporate Remuneration Report to be audited have therein.
We have also audited the information governance procedures or its risk and been properly prepared in accordance with in the Directors Remuneration Report that is control procedures.
the Companies Act 1985. described as having been audited.
We read other information contained in the This report is made solely to the Companys Annual Report and consider whether it is Ernst & Young LLP members, as a body, in accordance with consistent with the audited accounts.
This other Registered Auditor Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our information comprises the Directors Report, London audit work has been undertaken so that we unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration 24 March 2005 might state to the Companys members those Report, Chairmans Statement, Managers matters we are required to state to them in Report and Corporate Governance Statement.
an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We consider the implications for our report To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do if we become aware of any apparent not accept or assume responsibility to anyone misstatements or material inconsistencies other than the Company and the Companys with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do members as a body, for our audit work, not extend to any other information.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance Respective responsibilities of directors with United Kingdom Auditing Standards and auditors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The directors responsibilities for preparing An audit includes examination, on a test the Annual Report, the Directors basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Remuneration Report and the accounts in and disclosures in the accounts and the part accordance with applicable United Kingdom of the Directors Remuneration Report to be law and accounting standards are set out in audited.
It also includes an assessment of the the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts accounts, and of whether the accounting and the part of the Directors Remuneration policies are appropriate to the Groups Report in accordance with relevant legal and circumstances, consistently applied and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom adequately disclosed.
Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations We report to you our opinion as to whether which we considered necessary in order to the accounts give a true and fair view and provide us with sufficient evidence to give whether the accounts and the part of the reasonable assurance that the accounts Directors Remuneration Report to be audited and the part of the Directors Remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance Report to be audited are free from material with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report misstatement, whether caused by fraud to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report or other irregularity or error.
In forming is not consistent with the accounts, if the our opinion we also evaluated the overall Company has not kept proper accounting adequacy of the presentation of information records, if we have not received all the in the accounts and the part of the Directors information and explanations we require Remuneration Report to be audited.
for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
