Independent Auditors Report to the members of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC We have audited the Groups financial statements for We review whether the Corporate Governance the year ended 31 December 2004 which comprise Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the consolidated statement of total return, the the nine provisions of the Combined Code specified consolidated and company balance sheets, the for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if consolidated cashflow statement, and the related it does not.
We are not required to consider whether notes 1 to 21.
These financial statements have been the Boards statements on internal control cover all prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the out therein.
We have also audited the information in effectiveness of the Companys corporate the Directors Remuneration Report that is described governance procedures or its risk and control as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys We read other information contained in the Annual members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 Report and consider whether it is consistent with the of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has audited financial statements.
This other information been undertaken so that we might state to the comprises the Directors Report, the unaudited part Companys members those matters we are required of the Directors Remuneration Report, Chairmans to state to them in an auditors report and for no Statement and Corporate Governance Statement.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, We consider the implications for our report if we we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone become aware of any apparent misstatements or other than the Group and the Companys members material inconsistencies with the financial as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and Basis of audit opinion auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing The directors are responsible for preparing the Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Annual Report, including the financial statements An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of which are required to be prepared in accordance evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting the financial statements and the part of the standards as set out in the Statement of Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It Responsibilities in relation to the financial also includes an assessment of the significant statements.
estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements whether the accounting policies are appropriate to and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and adequately disclosed.
regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Services Authority.
all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with We report to you our opinion as to whether the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that financial statements give a true and fair view and the financial statements and the part of the whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have free from material misstatement, whether caused by been properly prepared in accordance with the fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the presentation of information in the financial the financial statements, if the Group has not kept statements and the part of the Directors proper accounting records, if we have not received Remuneration Report to be audited.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
