qxd 17 3 05 5:40 pm Page 35 Independent auditors report to the members of Centrica plc Independent auditors report to the members of Centrica plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and the related notes, which have been prepared under the and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable historical cost convention and the accounting policies set out part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an in the principal accounting policies note.
We have also audited assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys report the auditable part.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors all the information and explanations which we considered The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to and the financial statements in accordance with applicable give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free the statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other also responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance financial statements.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Opinion Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for, In our opinion: and only for, the companys members as a body in accordance the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other of affairs of the company and the group at 31 December 2004 purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume and of the profit and cash flows of the group for the year responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to then ended: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the financial statements have been properly prepared save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial those parts of the directors remuneration report required by statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors  LLP remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We read the other information contained in the annual report London and consider the implications for our report if we become aware 24 February 2005 of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the chief executives review, the operating and financial review, the group financial review and the gas and liquids reserves.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
