AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2004 71 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC We have audited the Financial Statements We review whether the corporate Opinion on pages 72 to 135.
We have also audited governance statement on page 52 reflects In our opinion the information in the Directors the Companys compliance with the nine Remuneration Report that is described provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified the Financial Statements give a true as having been audited.
for our review by the Listing Rules, and we and fair view of the state of affairs of report if it does not.
We are not required the Company and the Group as at This report is made solely to the Companys to consider whether the Boards statements 31 December 2004 and of the profit of members, as a body, in accordance with on internal control cover all risks and the Group for the year then ended: and section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. controls, or form an opinion on the Our audit work has been undertaken so that effectiveness of the Groups corporate the Financial Statements and the part we might state to the Companys members governance procedures or its risk and of the Directors Remuneration Report to those matters we are required to state to control procedures.
be audited have been properly prepared them in an auditors report and for no other in accordance with the Companies Act purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted We read the other information contained 1985. by law, we do not accept or assume in the Annual Report and Form 20-F responsibility to anyone other than the Information, including the corporate 27 January 2005 Company and the Companys members governance statement and consider as a body, for our audit work, for this report, whether it is consistent with the audited KPMG Audit Plc or for the opinions we have formed.
We consider the Chartered Accountants implications for our report if we become Registered Auditor Respective responsibilities of Directors aware of any apparent misstatements 8 Salisbury Square and Auditor or material inconsistencies with the London EC4Y 8BB The Directors are responsible for preparing Financial Statements.
the Annual Report and Form 20-F Information and the Directors Remuneration The above opinion is provided in compliance Basis of audit opinion Report.
As described on page 70 this with UK requirements.
An opinion in We conducted our audit in accordance with includes responsibility for preparing the Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing accordance with auditing standards of the Financial Statements in accordance with Practices Board.
An audit includes Public Company Accounting Oversight applicable UK law and accounting examination, on a test basis, of evidence Board in the US will be included in the Annual standards: the Directors have also relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Report on Form 20-F filed with the US presented additional information under the Financial Statements and the part of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Our responsibilities, Directors Remuneration Report to be as independent auditor, are established audited.
It also includes an assessment of Accounting principles generally accepted in the UK by statute, the Auditing Practices the significant estimates and judgements in the UK vary in certain significant respects Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial made by the Directors in the preparation of from accounting principles generally Services Authority, and by our professions the Financial Statements and of whether the accepted in the US.
accounting policies are appropriate to the to the nature and effect of such differences Groups circumstances, consistently applied is presented on pages 125 to 135.
We report to you our opinion as to whether and adequately disclosed.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial We planned and performed our audit so as Statements and the part of the Directors to obtain all the information and explanations Remuneration Report to be audited have which we considered necessary in order been properly prepared in accordance with to provide us with sufficient evidence to give the Companies Act 1985.
We also report reasonable assurance that the Financial to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Statements and the part of the Directors Report is not consistent with the Financial Remuneration Report to be audited are free Statements, if the Company has not kept from material misstatement, whether proper accounting records, if we have not caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
received all the information and explanations In forming our opinion we also evaluated we require for our audit, or if information the overall adequacy of the presentation specified by law regarding Directors of information in the Financial Statements remuneration and transactions with the and the part of the Directors Remuneration Group is not disclosed.
