73 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Report of the independent auditors United Kingdom Opinion Independent auditors report to the shareholders of financial review, Report of the directors, Corporate BT Group plc governance and Risk factors.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We review whether the corporate governance statement group profit and loss account, group and company balance reects the companys compliance with the seven provisions sheets, group cash ow statement, group statement of total of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services been prepared under the historical cost convention and the Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required accounting policies set out in the Accounting Policies section.
to consider whether the boards statements on internal We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the the effectiveness of the companys or groups corporate directors remuneration report the audited part.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing and the financial statements in accordance with applicable standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
the audited part of the directors remuneration report.
It also Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements includes an assessment of the significant estimates and and the audited part of the directors remuneration report in judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, applied and adequately disclosed.
has been prepared for and only for the companys members We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies the information and explanations which we considered Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown the audited part of the directors remuneration report are or into whose hands it may come save where expressly free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial information in the financial statements.
statements and the audited part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in Opinion accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at with the financial statements, if the company has not kept 31 March 2004 and of the profit and cash ows of the group proper accounting records, if we have not received all the for the year then ended: the financial statements have been information and explanations we require for our audit, or if properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act information specified by law regarding directors 1985: and those parts of the directors remuneration report remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act We read the other information contained in the Annual 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Report and Form 20-F and consider the implications for our Companies Act 1985. report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or  LLP material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors other information comprises only those sections set out in the table of contents including Financial headlines, Chairmans London message, Chief Executives statement, Operating and 19 May 2004 United States Opinion To the board of directors and shareholders of statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit BT Group plc includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the In our opinion, the accompanying group profit and loss amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, account, group balance sheet, group cash ow statement, assessing the accounting principles used and significant group statement of total recognised gains and losses and the estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall related notes present fairly, in all material respects, the financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits financial position of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries at 31 provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
March 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations Accounting principles generally accepted in the United and their cash ows for each of the three years in the period Kingdom vary in certain important respects from accounting ended 31 March 2004, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
These Information relating to the nature and effect of such financial statements are the responsibility of the groups differences is presented in the United States Generally management: our responsibility is to express an opinion on Accepted Accounting Principles section.
these financial statements based on our audits.
We  LLP conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of London America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 19 May 2004
