Auditors reports Independent auditors report In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, To the members of Hanson PLC in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Hanson PLC at December We have audited the groups financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 31, 2004 and 2003, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash ows which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, consolidated balance sheet, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity company balance sheet, consolidated cash ow statement, statement of total recognised with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom which differ gains and losses, reconciliation of shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 33. in certain respects from those generally accepted in the United States of America These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies see note 33 of the Notes to the accounts.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the effectiveness of Hanson PLCs internal Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Form 20-F, including in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring the financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with applicable Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2005 United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the statement of Directors expressed an unqualied opinion thereon.
responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP, London, England, February 24, 2005 Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Report of independent registered public accounting rm requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the To the Board of Directors and shareholders of Hanson PLC Financial Services Authority.
We have audited managements assessment, included in the accompanying Managements Annual Report on internal control over financial reporting, that Hanson We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair PLC maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration 2004, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not the COSO criteria.
Hanson PLCs management is responsible for maintaining consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors express an opinion on managements assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F and consider as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information a reasonable basis for our opinion.
comprises the Report of the Directors including the corporate governance statement, Chairmans statement, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration report and the A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide Operating and financial review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, Basis of audit opinion in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reect the transactions and dispositions We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards of the assets of the Company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment the Company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation and directors of the Company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall procedures may deteriorate.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited.
In our opinion, managements assessment that Hanson PLC maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, Opinion in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria.
Also, in our opinion, Hanson PLC In our opinion: maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of as of December 31, 2004, based on the COSO criteria.
the Company and of the group as at December 31, 2004 and of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and We also have audited, in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the consolidated balance sheets of Hanson PLC as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated profit and loss account, consolidated cash ow statement, Ernst & Young LLP, Registered Auditor, London, England, February 24, 2005 statement of total recognised gains and losses and reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004 Report of independent registered public accounting rm and our report dated February 24, 2005 expressed an unqualied opinion thereon.
To the Board of Directors and shareholders of Hanson PLC We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Hanson PLC as Ernst & Young LLP, London, England, February 24, 2005 of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated profit and loss account, consolidated cash ow statement, statement of total recognised gains and losses and reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
