INDEPENDENT AUDITORS UK REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Smith & Nephewplc We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the Group profit and loss account, Group balance sheet, Group cash flow statement, Group statement of total recognised gains and losses, Group reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, parent company balance sheet and the related Notes 1 to 48.
These accounts have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
 Directorsand Auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, remuneration report and the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of .
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the FinancialServices Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part ofthe  audited have been properlyprepared inaccordancewiththe Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Group has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration  Groupisnotdisclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, andwereportifitdoes not.
Weare  Boardsstatements oninternal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance proceduresorits .
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
This other information comprises the directors responsibilities for the accounts, unaudited part of the remuneration report, corporate and social responsibility and corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the  appropriate tothe Groupscircumstances, consistentlyapplied andadequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In formingouropinionwe also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation ofinformationinthe accountsandthe part ofthe  audited.
Opinion In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London, England 8March2005 68 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS US REPORT Report of Independent RegisteredPublic Accounting Firm to the Board of Directorsand Shareholdersof Smith & Nephewplc We have audited the accompanying Group balance sheets of Smith & Nephew plc as of 31 December 2004 and 2003, and the related Group profit and loss  oftotal , movements in shareholders funds and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2004.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express anopiniononthese financialstatements based onouraudits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financialreporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis forouropinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Smith & Nephew Group as at 31 December 2004 and 2003, and the consolidated results of its operations and its consolidated cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2004, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom which differ in certain respects fromthose generallyaccepted inthe United States see Note39ofNotes tothe GroupAccounts.
Ernst & Young LLP London, England 8March2005 69
