Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 67 Report of Independent Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Independent Auditors Report to the Members of explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient the Company evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration described as having We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other year ended 31 March 2004, which comprise the consolidated and Company balance irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of sheets at 31 March 2004 and 2003, the consolidated profit and loss accounts, the the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Boards consolidated cash flow statements, the consolidated statements of total recognised Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited.
gains and losses and the movement in total equity shareholders funds for the three years ended 31 March 2004 and the related notes 1 to 37.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We Opinions have also audited the information in the part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on UK opinion Directors Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Company and the Group at 31 March 2004 and of the loss of the Group for the Auditors year then ended: and, As described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Companys directors the financial statements and that part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with Directors Remuneration described as having been audited have been properly applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. for the preparation of the other information contained in the Annual Report including US opinion the Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration.
Our responsibility is to In our opinion: audit the financial statements and the part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited in accordance with relevant the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
financial position of the Group at 31 March 2004 and 2003 and the consolidated results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and ended 31 March 2004 in conformity with accounting principles generally fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Boards Report to accepted in the United Kingdom.
Shareholders on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom vary in significant if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the America.
The application of the latter would have affected the determination of net information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by loss for each of the three years ended 31 March 2004 and the determination of law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other shareholders equity at 31 March 2004 and 2003, to the extent summarised in members of the Group is not disclosed.
note 36 to the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the Companys Deloitte and Touche LLP compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
London, England We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups 25 May 2004 Corporate Governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2004 as described in the contents section, Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have including the unaudited part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of Remuneration and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in the United States of America.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
