Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Basis of audit opinion 64 The British Land Company PLC We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing We have audited the financial statements of The British Land Company standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes PLC for the year ended 31 March 2004 which comprise the profit and examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and loss account, the balance sheets, the statement of total recognised gains disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors reand losses, the note of historical cost profit and losses, the reconciliation muneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an of movements in shareholders funds, the cash flow statement, and the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the related notes 1 to 27.
These financial statements have been prepared directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company information in the part of the directors remuneration report that is and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in information and explanations which we considered necessary in order accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or information in the financial statements and the part of the directors for the opinions we have formed.
remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the comIn our opinion: panys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and of the company and the Group as at 31 March 2004 and of the profit accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of of the Group for the year then ended: and the other information contained in the annual report including the the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial report described as having been audited have been properly statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been Deloitte & Touche LLP audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is 24 May 2004 not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration Stretching a point.
Turning the gures report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the on their heads is not an accurate way of financial statements.
measuring growth Illustration by Quentin Blake Report of the Auditors The British Land Company PLC
