Independent auditors report to the members of Capital & Regional plc We have audited the financial statements of Capital & effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance Regional plc for the period ended 30 December 2004 procedures or its risk and control procedures.
which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated balance sheet, the statement of total We read the directors report and the other information recognised gains and losses, the note of historical cost contained in the annual report for the above period as profits and losses, the reconciliation of movements described in the contents section including the unaudited in equity shareholders funds, the consolidated cash flow part of the directors remuneration report and consider the statement, the Company balance sheet and the related notes implication for our report if we become aware of any 1 to 37.
These financial statements have been prepared apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have the financial statements.
also audited the information in the part of the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United This report is made solely to the Companys members, Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures might state to the Companys members those matters we are in the financial statements and the part of the directors required to state to them in an auditors report and for no remuneration report described as having been audited.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other and judgements made by the directors in the preparation than the Company and the Companys members as a body, of the financial statements and of whether the accounting for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the have formed.
Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation the information and explanations which we considered of the financial statements in accordance with applicable necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and also responsible for the preparation of the other information the part of the directors remuneration described as having contained in the annual report including the directors been audited are free from material misstatement, whether remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming financial statements and the part of the directors our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the remuneration report described as having been audited presentation of information in the financial statements and in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and the part of the directors remuneration report described as regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the In our opinion: financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have l the financial statements give a true and fair view of the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the 30 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for directors report is not consistent with the financial the period then ended: and statements, if the information and explanation we require l the financial statements and part of the directors for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding remuneration report described as having been audited directors remuneration and transactions with the Company have been properly prepared in accordance with the and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Deloitte & Touche LLP of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and London we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover 6 May 2005 all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Capital & Regional 37
