Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Independent auditors report to the members of Chrysalis Group Plc 27 We have audited the financial statements on pages 28 to 56.
We Basis of audit opinion have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards report that is described as having been audited.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the financial statements and the part of the Directors in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors assurance that the financial statements and the part of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material and the Directors remuneration report.
As described on page 26, misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting the presentation of information in the financial statements and the standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by Opinion our professions ethical guidance.
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements 31st August 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has KPMG Audit Plc not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Chartered Accountants the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Registered Auditor information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration London and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
13th December 2004 We review whether the statement on page 57 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
