Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members We read the directors report and the other information contained of Hammerson plc in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements and We have audited the financial statements of Hammerson plc Directors Report and Financial Statements for the above year for the year ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the as described in the contents section including the unaudited part consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated and Company of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications balance sheets, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements the note of historical cost profits and losses, the reconciliation or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
of movements in shareholdersfunds, the consolidated cash flow Basis of Audit Opinion statement and the related notes 1 to 26 and A to G. These We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom financial statements have been prepared under the accounting auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the the part of the directors remuneration report that is described amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part as having been audited.
of the directors remuneration report described as having been This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are Companys members those matters we are required to state to appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the group, them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members information and explanations which we considered necessary as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable we have formed.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors remuneration report described as having been audited are free As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the statements and the part of the directors remuneration report preparation of the other information contained in the Annual Review described as having been audited.
and Summary Financial Statements and Directors Report and Opinion Financial Statements including the directors remuneration report.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and affairs of the Company and the group as at 31 December 2004 regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
and of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements and the parts of the directors give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and remuneration report described as having been audited have the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Deloitte & Touche LLP our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other London members of the group is not disclosed.
14 March 2005 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
