Directors responsibilities Independent auditors report to the members of Land Securities Group PLC Directors responsibilities The directors are also responsible for We have audited the financial statements on The directors are required by company law to maintaining proper accounting records so as pages 60 to 79 which have been prepared prepare financial statements for each financial to enable them to comply with company law.
under the historical cost convention as year which give a true and fair view of the The directors have general responsibilities for modified by the revaluation of certain fixed state of affairs of the Company and of the safeguarding the assets of the Company and assets and the accounting policies set out in Group as at the end of the financial year and of the Group and for taking reasonable steps the statement of accounting policies.
We have of their profit or loss for that period and for the prevention and detection of fraud and also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 comply with the Companies Act 1985. other irregularities.
of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration The directors are responsible for ensuring that The maintenance and integrity of the Land report the auditable part.
applicable accounting standards have been Securities Group PLC website is the followed and that suitable accounting policies, responsibility of the Company: the work Respective responsibilities of directors consistently applied and supported by carried out by the auditors does not involve and auditors reasonable and prudent judgements and consideration of these matters and, The directors responsibilities for preparing the estimates, have been used in the preparation accordingly, the auditors accept no annual report and the financial statements in of the financial statements.
responsibility for any changes that may have accordance with applicable United Kingdom occurred to the financial statements since law and accounting standards are set out in It is also the responsibility of the directors to they were initially presented on the website.
the statement of directors responsibilities.
The prepare the financial statements on the going Legislation in the UK governing the directors are also responsible for preparing the concern basis unless it is inappropriate to preparation and dissemination of financial directors remuneration report.
presume that the Company and the Group statements may differ from legislation in other will continue in business.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 57 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Land Securities Group PLC Our responsibility is to audit the financial only the directors report, the unaudited part reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the of the directors remuneration report, the statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance chairmans statement, the financial highlights, directors remuneration report are free from with relevant legal and regulatory the operating and financial review and the material misstatement, whether caused by requirements and United Kingdom Auditing corporate governance statement.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming Standards issued by the Auditing Practices our opinion we also evaluated the overall Board.
This report, including the opinion, has We review whether the corporate governance adequacy of the presentation of information been prepared for and only for the Companys statement reflects the Companys compliance in the financial statements.
members as a body in accordance with Section with the seven provisions of the Combined 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no Code specified for our review by the Listing Opinion other purpose.
We do not, in giving this Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and In our opinion: opinion, accept or assume responsibility for we report if it does not.
We are not required to any other purpose or to any other person to consider whether the boards statements on the financial statements give a true and fair whom this report is shown or into whose internal control cover all risks and controls, or view of the state of affairs of the Company hands it may come save where expressly to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the and the Group at 31 March 2004 and of the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Groups corporate governance procedures or profit and cash flows of the Group for the its risk and control procedures.
year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements have been properly the financial statements give a true and fair Basis of audit opinion prepared in accordance with the Companies view and whether the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with Act 1985: and and the auditable part of the directors auditing standards issued by the Auditing those parts of the directors remuneration remuneration report have been properly Practices Board.
An audit includes report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to prepared in accordance with the Companies examination, on a test basis, of evidence the Companies Act 1985 have been properly Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the prepared in accordance with the Companies opinion, the directors report is not consistent financial statements and the auditable part of Act 1985. with the financial statements, if the Company the directors remuneration report.
It also has not kept proper accounting records, if we includes an assessment of the significant have not received all the information and estimates and judgements made by the explanations we require for our audit, or if directors in the preparation of the financial  LLP information specified by law regarding directors statements, and of whether the accounting Chartered Accountants and Registered remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
policies are appropriate to the Companys Auditors circumstances, consistently applied and London We read the other information contained in adequately disclosed.
18 May 2004 the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become We planned and performed our audit so as to aware of any apparent misstatements or obtain all the information and explanations material inconsistencies with the financial which we considered necessary in order to statements.
The other information comprises provide us with sufficient evidence to give LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 58
