Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year Basis of audit opinion ended 31 December 2004, which comprise the Group Profit We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom and Loss Account, Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An and Losses, Group Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Group Statement of Cash Flows, Reconciliation of Net Cash to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and Flow to Movement in Net Funds and the related notes 1 to 32. the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are described as having been audited.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might information and explanations that we considered necessary in state to the Companys members those matters we are required order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Report to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Opinion in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at Responsibilities.
31 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Ernst & Young LLP statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Registered Auditor statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Luton to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance 14 March 2005 with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Finance Directors Review, Corporate Governance Statement, Directors Report and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Computacenter plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
