Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 71 Independent auditors report to the members of Slough Estates plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We review whether the corporate governance statements reflect accounting policies, the Group profit and loss account, the the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 statement of Group total recognised gains and losses, the notes FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Group historical profits and losses, reconciliation of movement of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, and we report if they in Group shareholders funds, the balance sheets, the Group cash do not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards flow statement and the related notes.
We have also audited the statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the financial statements in accordance with applicable United examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume of the directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Opinion In our opinion: statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the affairs of the company and the Group at 31 December 2004 directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have then ended: not received all the information and explanations we require for our the financial statements have been properly prepared in audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 We read the other information contained in the annual report and have been properly prepared in accordance with the consider the implications for our report if we become aware of Companies Act 1985. any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises the financial  LLP summary, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives Review, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Financial Review, Corporate governance guidelines, Five year Reading results, Directors report, the unaudited part of the directors 22 March 2005 remuneration report and the other information set out on the Note: Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of contents page.
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
