com 31 Statement of directors' responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those accounts, Company and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the the Directors are required to: Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Independent auditors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the CREST NICHOLSON PLC corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the Directors' remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited We have audited the financial statements on pages 32 to 47.
We have also financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become audited the information in the Directors' remuneration report that is described aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been Basis of audit opinion undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements anyone other than the Company and the Company's members as a body, for our and the part of the Directors' remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the applied and adequately disclosed.
As described above this includes responsibility We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing and the part of the Directors' remuneration report to be audited are free from Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In our profession's ethical guidance.
forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
Directors' remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our Opinion opinion, the Directors' report is not consistent with the financial statements, if In our opinion: the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Company and the Group as at 31st October 2004 and of the profit of the specified by law regarding Directors' remuneration and transactions with the Group for the year then ended: and Group is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors' remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the We review whether the corporate governance statement on pages 48 to 50 Companies Act 1985. reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
KPMG Audit Plc We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal Chartered Accountants control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Registered Auditor the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
