Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 51 Independent auditors report to the members of Dairy Crest Group plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year We read other information contained in the Annual Report and ended 31 March 2004 which comprise the Consolidated profit consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial and loss account, Statement of Group total recognised gains statements.
This other information comprises the Directors and losses, Balance sheets, Consolidated cash flow statement, report, unaudited part of the Report of the Board on Directors Accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 30.
These remuneration, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the Operating review, Financial review and Corporate governance accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we the information in the Report of the Board on Directors become aware of any apparent misstatements or material remuneration that is described as having been audited.
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Basis of audit opinion 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom state to the Companys members those matters we are required Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the part of the Report of the Board on Directors remuneration the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant report, or for the opinions we have formed.
estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
including the financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of information and explanations which we considered necessary in Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Report of the Board on Directors remuneration to be audited part of the Report of the Board on Directors remuneration to be are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
information in the financial statements and the part of the Report of the Board on Directors remuneration to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Opinion statements and the part of the Report of the Board on In our opinion: Directors remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 March consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the financial statements and the part of the Report of the information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Board on Directors remuneration to be audited have been directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. disclosed.
Ernst & Young LLP We review whether the Corporate governance statement Registered Auditor reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of London the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing 26 May 2004 Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
