REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Basis of Audit Opinion Daily Mail and General Trust plc We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom We have audited the financial statements of Daily Mail and auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An General Trust plc for the year ended 3rd October, 2004 which audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and the part of the Remuneration Report described as having and losses, reconciliation of movement in Group shareholders been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant funds, the accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 42. estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation These financial statements have been prepared under the of the financial statements and of whether the accounting accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company information in the part of the Remuneration Report that is and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a information and explanations which we considered necessary in body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the Companys members those matters we are required to state Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report described as having been audited.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Opinion As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, In our opinion: the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 3rd October, 2004 responsible for the preparation of the other information and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and contained in the Annual Report including the Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the financial statements and part of the Remuneration Report the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been described as having been audited have been properly prepared in audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and accordance with the Companies Act 1985. regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Deloitte & Touche LLP the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the Chartered Accountants and Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, Registered Auditors if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we London have not received all the information and explanations we 1st December, 2004 require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
45 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
