INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of fide Vere Group Plc We have audited the Groups Accounts for We report to you our opinion as to whether We planned and performed our audit the year ended 26 September 2004 which the Accounts give a true and fair view and so as to obtain all the information and comprise the Consolidated Profit and Loss whether the Accounts and the part of the explanations which we considered necessary Account, Group and Company Balance Report on Directors Remuneration to be in order to provide us with sufficient Sheets, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, audited have been properly prepared in evidence to give reasonable assurance that Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the Accounts and the part of the Report on and Losses, Reconciliation of Movement in We also report to you if, in our opinion, Directors Remuneration to be audited are Shareholders Funds and the related Notes 1 the Report of the Directors is not consistent free from material misstatement, whether to 30.
These Accounts have been prepared with the Accounts, if the company has caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
on the basis of the accounting policies not kept proper accounting records, if we In forming our opinion we also evaluated set out therein.
We have also audited the have not received all the information and the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Report on Directors explanations we require for our audit, or if information in the Accounts and the part of Remuneration that is described as having information specified by law or the Listing the Report on Directors Remuneration to be been audited.
Rules regarding Directors remuneration and audited.
transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys Opinion members, as a body, in accordance with We review whether the Corporate In our opinion: Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Governance Statement reflects the Our audit work has been undertaken so Companys compliance with the seven The Accounts give a true and fair view of that we might state to the Companys provisions of the Combined Code specified the state of affairs of the Company and of members those matters we are required for our review by the Listing Rules, and we the Group as at 26 September 2004 and to state to them in an auditors report and report if it does not.
We are not required to of the profit of the Group for the year then for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent consider whether the Boards statements on ended: and permitted by law, we do not accept or internal control cover all risks and controls assume responsibility to anyone other than or to form an opinion on the effectiveness The Accounts and the part of the Report the Company and the Companys members of the Groups Corporate Governance on Directors Remuneration to be audited as a body, for our audit work, for this report, procedures or its risk and control procedures.
have been properly prepared in accordance or for the opinions we have formed.
We read other information contained in the Respective responsibilities of Annual Report and consider whether it is Directors and Auditors consistent with the audited Accounts.
This Ernst & Young LLP The Directors are responsible for preparing other information comprises the Chairmans Registered Auditor the Annual Report, including the Accounts Statement, Chief Executives Strategy Review, Manchester which are required to be prepared in Operating Review, Financial Review, Report 1 December 2004 accordance with applicable United Kingdom of the Directors, Statement on Corporate law and accounting standards as set out in and Social Responsibility, statement on the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Corporate Governance and Report on relation to the Accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become Our responsibility is to audit the Accounts aware of any apparent misstatements or and the part of the Report on Directors material inconsistencies with the Accounts.
Remuneration to be audited in accordance Our responsibilities do not extend to any with relevant legal and regulatory other information.
requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Basis of audit opinion Financial Services Authority.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Accounts and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 I 31
