52 independent auditors report to the Members of Dimension Data Holdings plc We have audited the financial statements of properly prepared in accordance with the We planned and performed our audit so as to Dimension Data Holdings plc for the year Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, obtain all the information and explanations ended 30 September 2004 which comprise the in our opinion, the Directors report is not which we considered necessary in order to consolidated profit and loss account, the consistent with the financial statements, if the provide us with sufficient evidence to give consolidated balance sheet, the parent Company has not kept proper accounting reasonable assurance that the financial company balance sheet, the consolidated cash records, if we have not received all the statements and the part of the Directors flow statement, the consolidated statement of information and explanations we require for remuneration report described as having been total recognised gains and losses, the our audit, or if information specified by law audited are free from material misstatement, consolidated and parent companys regarding Directors remuneration and whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or statements of movements of reserves and transactions with the Company and other error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated shareholders funds, and the related notes 1 to members of the Group is not disclosed.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of 34.
We have also audited the information in information in the financial statements and the the part of the Directors remuneration report We review whether the corporate governance part of the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
statement reflects the Company's compliance described as having been audited.
with the seven provisions of the Combined This report is made solely to the Companys Code specified for our review by the Listing Opinion members, as a body, in accordance with Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and In our opinion: section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our we report if it does not.
We are not required tothe financial statements give a true and fair audit work has been undertaken so that we consider whether the Board's statements on view of the state of affairs of the Company might state to the Companys members those internal control cover all risks and controls, or and the Group as at 30 September 2004 matters we are required to state to them in an form an opinion on the effectiveness of the and of the loss of the Group for the year auditors report and for no other purpose.
To Group's corporate governance procedures or then ended: and the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not its risk and control procedures.
the financial statements and part of the accept or assume responsibility to anyone Directors remuneration report described as other than the Company and the Companys We read the Directors report and the other having been audited have been properly members as a body, for our audit work, for this information contained in the annual report for prepared in accordance with the Companies report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the above year as described in the contents Act 1985. section including the unaudited part of the Respective responsibilities of directors and Directors remuneration report and consider auditors the implications for our report if we become An audit does not provide assurance on the As described in the statement of Directors aware of any apparent misstatements or maintenance and integrity of the website, responsibilities, the Companys Directors are material inconsistencies with the financial including controls used to achieve this, and in responsible for the preparation of the financial statements.
particular on whether any changes may have statements in accordance with applicable occurred to the financial statements since first United Kingdom law and accounting Basis of audit opinion published.
These matters are the standards.
They are also responsible for the We conducted our audit in accordance with responsibility of the directors but no control preparation of the other information contained United Kingdom auditing standards issued by procedures can provide absolute assurance in in the annual report including the Directors the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes this area.
Our responsibility is to examination, on a test basis, of evidence audit the financial statements and the part of relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Directors remuneration report described financial statements and the part of the the preparation and dissemination of financial as having been audited in accordance with Directors remuneration report described as statements differs from legislation in other relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory having been audited.
It also includes an jurisdictions.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the preparation of the financial statements and of Deloitte & Touche LLP financial statements give a true and fair view whether the accounting policies are Chartered Accountants and Registered and whether the financial statements and the appropriate to the circumstances of the Auditors part of the Directors remuneration report Company and the Group, consistently applied London described as having been audited have been and adequately disclosed.
