INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DS SMITH PLC We have audited the financial statements We review whether the statement on page 26 Opinion on pages 38 to 62.
We have also audited the reflects the Companys compliance with the In our opinion: information in the Directors remuneration seven provisions of the Combined Code the financial statements give a true and fair report that is described as having been audited.
specified for our review by the Listing Rules, view of the state of affairs of the Company and we report if it does not.
We are not required This report is made solely to the Companys and the Group as at 30 April 2004 and of to consider whether the Boards statements on members, as a body, in accordance with the profit of the Group for the year then internal control cover all risks and controls, or section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. ended: and form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Our audit work has been undertaken so that Groups corporate governance procedures or the financial statements and the part we might state to the Companys members its risk and control procedures.
of the Directors remuneration report those matters we are required to state to to be audited have been properly prepared them in an auditors report and for no other We read the other information contained in in accordance with the Companies purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by the Annual Report, including the corporate Act 1985. law, we do not accept or assume responsibility governance statement and the unaudited part to anyone other than the Company and the of the Directors remuneration report, and KPMG Audit Plc Companys members as a body, for our audit consider whether it is consistent with the Chartered Accountants work, for this report, or for the opinions we audited financial statements.
We consider the Registered Auditor have formed.
implications for our report if we become aware London of any apparent misstatements or material 23 June 2004 Respective responsibilities of inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Directors and Auditor The Directors are responsible for preparing Basis of audit opinion the Annual Report and the Directors We have conducted our audit in accordance with remuneration report.
As described on page Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing 36, this includes responsibility for preparing Practices Board.
An audit includes the financial statements in accordance examination, on a test basis, of evidence with applicable United Kingdom law and relevant to the amounts and disclosures in accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, the financial statements and the part of the as independent auditor, are established in Directors remuneration report to be audited.
the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing It also includes an assessment of the significant Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the estimates and judgements made by the Directors Financial Services Authority, and by our in the preparation of the financial statements, professions ethical guidance.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, We report to you our opinion as to whether consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as and the part of the Directors remuneration to obtain all the information and explanations report to be audited have been properly which we considered necessary in order to prepared in accordance with the Companies provide us with sufficient evidence to give Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our reasonable assurance that the financial opinion, the Directors report is not consistent statements and part of the Directors with the financial statements, if the Company remuneration report to be audited are free from has not kept proper accounting records, if material misstatement, whether caused by we have not received all the information fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming and explanations we require for our audit, our opinion we also evaluated the overall or if information specified by law regarding adequacy of the presentation of information in Directors remuneration and transactions the financial statements and the part of the with the Group is not disclosed.
Directors remuneration report to be audited.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 37
