Independent auditors report to the members of Emap plc Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 49 Independent auditors report to the members of Emap plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise Basis of audit opinion the Consolidated profit and loss account, the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards cash flow statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts the related notes and the balance sheet of Emap plc which have and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part been prepared under the historical cost convention, as of the Remuneration and related matters report.
It also includes an modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Remuneration and related matters report the auditable part.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and the financial statements in accordance with applicable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in part of the Remuneration and related matters report are free the statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other responsible for preparing the Remuneration and related irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated matters report.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration and related matters report Opinion in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion: and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been of the affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2004 prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and then ended: for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other the financial statements have been properly prepared in person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
those parts of the Remuneration and related matters report We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Act 1985. and related matters report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We read the other information contained in the annual report and London consider the implications for our report if we become aware of 24 May 2004 any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only those sections set out in the table of contents, including the Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review, the Finance Directors review, the unaudited part of the Remuneration and related matters report, the Directors report and Corporate governance and Corporate social responsibility review.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
