Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members We read other information contained in the Annual of EMI Group plc Report and consider whether it is consistent with the We have audited the Groups financial statements for audited financial statements.
This other information the year ended 31 March 2004 which comprise the comprises the Directors Report, unaudited part of Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, Consolidated the Directors Remuneration Report, Chairmans Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement, Operating Reviews, Financial Review and Cash Flow Statement, Statement of Total Recognised Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Movements in implications for our report if we become aware of any Shareholders Funds and the related notes 1 to 28. apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies These financial statements have been prepared on with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
not extend to any other information.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Basis of audit opinion been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing This report is made solely to the Companys members, Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been disclosures in the financial statements and the part undertaken so that we might state to the Companys of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
members those matters we are required to state to them It also includes an assessment of the significant in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or preparation of the financial statements, and of whether assume responsibility to anyone other than the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Company and the Companys members as a body, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Respective responsibilities of Directors and all the information and explanations which we Auditor considered necessary in order to provide us with The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Report, including the financial statements which are the financial statements and the part of the Directors required to be prepared in accordance with applicable Remuneration Report to be audited are free from United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also relation to the financial statements.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Opinion regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing In our opinion the financial statements give a true and Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Services Authority.
Group as at 31 March 2004 and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to statements give a true and fair view and whether the be audited have been properly prepared in accordance financial statements and the part of the Directors with the Companies Act 1985.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Registered Auditor Report is not consistent with the financial statements, London if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, 23 May 2004 if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
