36 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Independent Auditors report to the members of Enodis plc We have audited the financial statements of Enodis plc for We read the Directors report and the other information the 53 weeks ended 2 October 2004 which comprise the contained in the annual report for the above period as profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow described in the contents section and the unaudited part of statement and related notes, the statement of total recognised the Directors report and consider the implications for our gains and losses, the accounting policies and the related report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or notes 1 to 26.
These financial statements have been prepared material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
under the accounting policies set out therein.
Basis of audit opinion We have also audited the information specified as audited in We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom the Directors remuneration report.
auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might statements and the part of the Directors remuneration state to the Companys members those matters we are report described as having been audited.
It also includes an required to state to them in an auditors report and for no assessment of the significant estimates and judgements other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the statements and of whether the accounting policies are Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary As described in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the of the financial statements in accordance with applicable part of the Directors remuneration report described as having United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are been audited, are free from material misstatement, whether also responsible for the preparation of the other information caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our contained in the annual report including the Directors opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial presentation of information in the financial statements and the statements and the part of the Directors remuneration part of the Directors remuneration report described as having report described as having been audited in accordance with been audited.
relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at described as having been audited have been properly prepared 2 October 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, 53 weeks then ended: and in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper the financial statements and part of the Directors accounting records, if we have not received all the information remuneration report described as having been audited, and explanations we require for our audit, or if information have been properly prepared in accordance with the specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and Companies Act 1985. transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants of the Combined Code specified for our review by the and Registered Auditors London Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report 22 November 2004 if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
