INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPOR T Independent auditors report to the members of We report to you our opinion as to whether the Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC financial statements give a true and fair view and We have audited the financial statements of whether the financial statements and the part of the Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC for the year Directors Remuneration Report described as having ended September 30 2004 which comprise the group been audited have been properly prepared in profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the group accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also cash flow statement, the notes to the group cash flow report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report statement, group statement of total recognised gains is not consistent with the financial statements, if the and losses, the reconciliation of movements in equity company has not kept proper accounting records, if we shareholders funds, and the related notes 1 to 26. have not received all the information and explanations These financial statements have been prepared under we require for our audit, or if information specified by the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also law regarding directors remuneration and transactions audited the information in the part of the directors with the company and other members of the group is remuneration report that is described as having not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance This report is made solely to the companys members, statement reflects the company's compliance with the as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services undertaken so that we might state to the companys Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not members those matters we are required to state to required to consider whether the board's statements them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
on internal control cover all risks and controls, or To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than corporate governance procedures or its risk and the company and the companys members as a body, control procedures.
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the annual report for the Respective responsibilities of directors and above year as described in the contents section auditors including the unaudited part of the Directors As described in the statement of directors Remuneration Report and consider the implications responsibilities, the companys directors are responsible for our report if we become aware of any apparent for the preparation of the financial statements in misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and financial statements.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the Directors Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
34 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at September 30 2004 and of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London November 23 2004.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 35
