Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 57 Independent Auditors report to the members of Exel plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the We read other information contained in the Annual Report year ended 31 December 2004, which comprise the group and consider whether it is consistent with the audited profit and loss account, group statement of total recognised financial statements.
This other information comprises gains and losses, movements in shareholders funds, group Exel explained, Performance, Governance including the cash ow statement, reconciliation of operating profit to unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and operating cash ow, reconciliation of net cash ow to Group five year record.
We consider the implications for our movement in net debt, group balance sheet, parent company report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements balance sheet, accounting policies and the related notes 1 or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared on the Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration Basis of audit opinion report that is described on page 38 as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might statements and the part of the Directors remuneration state to the Companys members those matters we are required report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or in the preparation of the financial statements, and of assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups 04 and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the information and explanations which we considered The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Report, including the financial statements which are required give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and to be prepared in accordance with applicable United the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the are free from material misstatement, whether caused by statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion financial statements.
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, Opinion United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules In our opinion: of the Financial Services Authority.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 31 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for statements give a true and fair view and whether the the year then ended: and financial statements and the part of the Directors the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require Ernst & Young LLP for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Registered Auditor Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions London with the Group is not disclosed.
3 March 2005 We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 57 Financials
