Independent auditors report to the members of FKI plc We have audited the groups financial statements for the We read other information contained in the Annual report year ended 31 March 2004 which comprise the Consolidated and consider whether it is consistent with the audited profit and loss account, Consolidated balance sheet, Company financial statements.
This other information comprises the balance sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement, Consolidated Directors report, unaudited part of the Remuneration report, statement of total recognised gains and losses, Consolidated Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, Operating reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds and and financial reviews and Corporate governance statement.
These financial statements have been We consider the implications for our report if we become prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies We have also audited the information in the Remuneration with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a Basis of audit opinion body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
state to the Company's members those matters we are required An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence to state to them in an auditors report and for no other relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit estimates and judgements made by the directors in the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, including the financial statements which are required to be We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law the information and explanations which we considered and accounting standards as set out in the statement of necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are free from Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be In our opinion: audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, affairs of the Company and of the group as at 31 March 2004 the Directors report is not consistent with the financial and of the loss of the group for the year then ended: and statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration explanations we require for our audit, or if information report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors with the Companies Act 1985. remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, Ernst & Young LLP and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Registered Auditor whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all London risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of 8 June 2004 the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
