INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FORTH PORTS PLC We have audited the financial statements which comprise the consolidated Basis of audit opinion profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued statement, the statement of consolidated total recognised gains and by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on losses, the related notes and the principal accounting policies set out in a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures the Statement of Accounting Policies.
We have also audited the disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant in the Directors Remuneration Report the auditable part.
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the and adequately disclosed.
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Directors Remuneration Report.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members Opinion as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 In our opinion: and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person affairs of the Company and the Group at 31st December 2004 and to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting  LLP records, if we have not received all the information and explanations Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Edinburgh Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and 21st March 2005 consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Group Chief Executives Statement, the Financial Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Corporate Governance Report, the Report of the Nomination Committee, the Report of the Audit Committee and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
