independent auditors report to the members of french connection group plc We have audited the accounts on pages 22 to 48.
We have also We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and audited the information in the Directors' remuneration report that is fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors' described as having been audited.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts, if the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if members those matters we are required to state to them in an information specified by law regarding Directors' remuneration and auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members as a We review whether the statement on page 14 reflects the Companys body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our have formed.
review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
As described on page 19, this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the Directors' remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our profession's become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies ethical guidance.
20 annual report 2004 Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards In our opinion: issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amountsthe accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors' Company and the Group as at 31 January 2004 and of the profit remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Group for the year then ended: and of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accountingthe accounts and the part of the Directors' remuneration report to policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors' remuneration report to be audited are free from material KPMG Audit Plc misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Chartered Accountants In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Registered Auditor presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the London Directors' remuneration report to be audited.
