Statutory reports Geest PLC 39 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the We review whether the Corporate We planned and performed our audit members of Geest PLC governance statement on pages 16 to so as to obtain all the information and We have audited the accounts on pages 24 reects the Companys compliance explanations which we considered 40 to 64.
We have also audited the with the nine provisions of the 2003 necessary in order to provide us with information in the Directors pay and FRC Code specified for our review by sufficient evidence to give reasonable benets report that is described as the Listing Rules, and we report if they assurance that the accounts and the having been audited.
We are not required to consider part of the Directors pay and benets whether the Boards statements report to be audited are free from This report is made solely to the on internal control cover all risks and material misstatement, whether caused Companys members, as a body, controls, or form an opinion on the by fraud or other irregularity or error.
in accordance with section 235 of the effectiveness of the Groups Corporate In forming our opinion we also evaluated Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has governance procedures or its risk and the overall adequacy of the presentation been undertaken so that we might state control procedures.
of information in the accounts and the to the Companys members those matters part of the Directors pay and benets we are required to state to them in an We read the other information contained report to be audited.
auditors report and for no other purpose.
in the Annual Report, including the To the fullest extent permitted by law, Corporate governance statement and Opinion we do not accept or assume responsibility the unaudited part of the Directors pay In our opinion: to anyone other than the Company and and benets report, and consider whether the Companys members as a body, for it is consistent with the audited accounts.
the accounts give a true and fair view our audit work, for this report, or for the We consider the implications for our report of the state of affairs of the Company opinions we have formed.
if we become aware of any apparent and the Group as at 1 January 2005 misstatements or material inconsistencies and of the profit of the Group for the Respective responsibilities of Directors with the accounts.
fty two week period then ended: and and auditors the accounts and the part of the The Directors are responsible for Basis of audit opinion Directors pay and benets report preparing the Annual Report and the We conducted our audit in accordance to be audited have been properly Directors pay and benets report.
with Auditing Standards issued by prepared in accordance with the As described on page 26, this includes the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Companies Act 1985. responsibility for preparing the accounts includes examination, on a test basis, in accordance with applicable United of evidence relevant to the amounts KPMG Audit Plc Kingdom law and accounting standards.
and disclosures in the accounts and the Chartered Accountants Our responsibilities, as independent part of the Directors pay and benets Registered Auditor auditors, are established in the United report to be audited.
It also includes an Nottingham Kingdom by statute, the Auditing assessment of the significant estimates 8 March 2005 Practices Board, the Listing Rules and judgements made by the Directors of the Financial Services Authority and in the preparation of the accounts, Notes by our professions ethical guidance.
and of whether the accounting policies 1 The maintenance and integrity of the are appropriate to the Groups Geest PLC website is the responsibility We report to you our opinion as to circumstances, consistently applied of the Directors: the work carried whether the accounts give a true and and adequately disclosed.
out by the auditors does not involve fair view and whether the accounts consideration of these matters and, and the part of the Directors pay and accordingly, the auditors accept no benets report to be audited have been responsibility for any changes that properly prepared in accordance with may have occurred to the financial the Companies Act 1985.
We also report statements or audit report since they to you if, in our opinion, the Directors were initially presented on the website.
report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom proper accounting records, if we have governing the preparation and not received all the information and dissemination of financial statements explanations we require for our audit, may differ from legislation in other or if information specified by law regarding jurisdictions.
Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
