co. uk 47 AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GEORGE WIMPEY PLC BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group cash ow by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on statement, the statement of Group total recognised gains and losses, a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the reconciliation of movement in Group shareholders funds, accounting the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration policies and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the in the Remuneration Report the auditable part.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors information and explanations which we considered necessary in order responsibilities on page 37.
The Directors are also responsible for to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance preparing the Remuneration Report.
that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal and we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards information in the financial statements.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members OPINION as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 In our opinion: and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2004 and whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save of the profit and cash ows of the Group for the year then ended: where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements with the Companies Act 1985: and give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any London apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial 22 February 2005 statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, the Operating and Financial Review, Board of Directors, Corporate Social Responsibility, Directors Report, Corporate Governance and the Remuneration Report.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
