INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC We have audited the accounts which comprise the profit and loss account, Basis of audit opinion the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of total We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued recognised gains and losses, the Companys balance sheet, the segmental by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a analysis and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained accounts and the auditable part of the report on Directors remuneration.
in the report on Directors remuneration the auditable part.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities on and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us page 73.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the report on with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts Directors remuneration.
and the auditable part of the report on Directors remuneration are Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable part of the free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other report on Directors remuneration in accordance with relevant legal and irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
by the Auditing Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared Opinion for and only for the Companys membersasa body in accordance with In our opinion: Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any Company and the Group at 31 December 2004 and of the profit other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable part of the report those parts of the report on Directors remuneration required on Directors remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the Directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority  LLP regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider Birmingham the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 23 February 2005 misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the report on Directors remuneration, the Chairmans statement, the Notes: Chief Executives statement, the operating and financial review and a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the the corporate governance statement.
responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
