GlaxoSmithKline 89 Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc We have audited the Financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion consolidated statement of profit and loss, consolidated statement We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards of total recognised gains and losses, consolidated statement of issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes cash ow, consolidated and company balance sheets and the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts related notes, which have been prepared under the historical cost and disclosures in the Financial statements and the auditable part convention and the accounting policies set out in the statement of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 the directors in the preparation of the Financial statements, and contained in the Directors Remuneration Report the auditable of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the part.
companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and information and explanations which we considered necessary in the Financial statements in accordance with applicable United order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the assurance that the Financial statements and the auditable part statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also of the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Our responsibility is to audit the Financial statements and the error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United statements.
Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for Opinion and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with In our opinion: Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility the Financial statements give a true and fair view of the state for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report of affairs of the company and the Group at 31st December is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 2004 and the profit and cash ows of the Group for the year agreed by our prior consent in writing.
then ended the Financial statements have been properly prepared in We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and consider the implications for our report if we become aware Embankment Place of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the London, England Financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial summary, description of business, unauditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the joint statement by the 2nd March 2005 Chairman and the Chief Executive officer, the operating and financial review and prospects and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
