Report of the Independent Auditors to the Members of Greggs plc We have audited the accounts on pages 22 to 41.
We have also We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors is described as having been audited.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the accounts, accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our We review whether the corporate governance statement on pages audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
46 to 48 reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, Respective responsibilities of and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider directors and auditors whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
As described on page 19 this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications Services Authority and by our professions ethical guidance.
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 20 21 Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued In our opinion: by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Company and the Group as at 1 January 2005 and of the profit accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be of the Group for the 53 weeks then ended: and audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide KPMG Audit Plc us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Chartered Accountants accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Registered Auditor audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Newcastle upon Tyne or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated 14 March 2005 the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
