We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance Independent auditors with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the report to the members Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the of GWR Group plc Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We have audited the financial statements of GWR Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2004 which We read the directors report and the other comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, information contained in the annual report for the the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow above year as described in the contents section statement, the consolidated statement of total including the unaudited part of the directors recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of remuneration report and consider the implications movements in consolidated equity shareholders for our report if we become aware of any apparent funds and the related notes 1 to 30.
These financial misstatements or material inconsistencies with the statements have been prepared under the financial statements.
accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the directors Basis of audit opinion remuneration report that is described as having We conducted our audit in accordance with United been audited.
Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on This report is made solely to the companys members, a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the and disclosures in the financial statements and the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been part of the directors remuneration report described undertaken so that we might state to the companys as having been audited.
It also includes an members those matters we are required to state to assessment of the significant estimates and them in an auditors report and for no other judgements made by the directors in the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we preparation of the financial statements and of do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone whether the accounting policies are appropriate to other than the company and the companys the circumstances of the company and the group, members as a body, for our audit work, for this consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors obtain all the information and explanations which As described in the statement of directors we considered necessary in order to provide us with responsibilities, the companys directors are sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance responsible for the preparation of the financial that the financial statements and the part of the statements in accordance with applicable United directors remuneration report described as having Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are been audited are free from material misstatement, also responsible for the preparation of the other whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or information contained in the annual report including error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility overall adequacy of the presentation of information is to audit the financial statements and the part of in the financial statements and the part of the the directors remuneration report described as directors remuneration report described as having having been audited in accordance with relevant been audited.
United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and the financial statements give a true and fair view of whether the financial statements and the part of the the state of affairs of the Company and the Group directors remuneration report described as having as at 31 March 2004 and of the profit of the Group been audited have been properly prepared in for the year then ended: and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also the financial statements and part of the directors report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report remuneration report described as having been is not consistent with the financial statements, if the audited have been properly prepared in company has not kept proper accounting records, accordance with the Companies Act 1985. if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Deloitte & Touche LLP information specified by law regarding directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
London 26 May 2004 53 GWR Group plc Independent auditors report to the Annual report and accounts 2004 members of GWR Group plc
