HALMA Independent Auditors Report TotheMembersofHalmap.
l. c. We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Halma p. l. c. for the 53 weeks to 3 April , theBalanceSheets, theConsolidated CashFlowStatement, , together with the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses and the reconciliation of .
 Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the  nootherpurpose.
,  anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information .
 audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
 seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial ServicesAuthority, .
 ,  the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
 period as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basisofauditopinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration .
  the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance  been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of  as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 3 April 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the 53 week period then ended: and the financial statements and part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte&ToucheLLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Reading 22 June 2004 Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
