Independent auditors report to the members of Allied Domecq PLC We have audited the accounts on pages 55 to 79.
We have also Basis of audit opinion audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards is described as having been audited.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to applied and adequately disclosed.
anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As described on page 41 Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
Opinion In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 August 2004 a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not the Companies Act 1985. consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and KPMG Audit Plc explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified Chartered Accountants by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with Registered Auditor the Group is not disclosed.
London We review whether the statement on pages 43 to 45 reflects 20 October 2004 the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
