Accounts 42 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Headlam Group plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 43 to 78. implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent We have also audited the information in the directors misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Basis of audit opinion in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes companys members those matters we are required to state to examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an to anyone other than the company and the companys members as assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of have formed.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 41, this information and explanations which we considered necessary in includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting assurance that the financial statements and the part of the standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements audited.
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have Opinion been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act In our opinion 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the affairs of the company and the group as at 31 December 2004 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if and of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared We review whether the corporate governance statement on page 29 in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. reflects the groups compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the KPMG Audit Plc boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, Chartered Accountants or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate Registered Auditor governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
2 Cornwall Street We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, Birmingham including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited B3 2DL part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
