0145 MFI 47 Auditors tp 4 4 05 9:19 pm Page 47 Independent auditors report review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Independent auditors report Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to the members of MFI Furniture Group Plc to consider whether the Boards statements on internal We have audited the financial statements of MFI Furniture control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion Group Plc for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2004 which on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised We read the directors report and the other information gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in contained in the annual report for the above 52 week period shareholders funds, the note of historical cost profits and as described in the contents section including the unaudited losses, the statement of accounting policies and the related part of the directors remuneration report and consider the notes 1 to 28.
These financial statements have been implications for our report if we become aware of any prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with We have also audited the information in the part of the the financial statements.
directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures state to the Companys members those matters we are in the financial statements and the part of the directors required to state to them in an auditors report and for no remuneration report described as having been audited.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the than the Company and the Companys members as a body, financial statements and of whether the accounting policies for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and have formed.
the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the information and explanations which we considered As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and of the financial statements in accordance with applicable the part of the directors remuneration report described as United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are having been audited are free from material misstatement, also responsible for the preparation of the other whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
information contained in the annual report including the In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial audit the financial statements and the part of the directors statements and the part of the directors remuneration remuneration report described as having been audited in report described as having been audited.
accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the In our opinion: financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial statements and the part of the directors the state of affairs of the Company and the Group remuneration report described as having been audited have as at 25 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies for the 52 week period then ended: and Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the the financial statements and part of the directors directors report is not consistent with the financial remuneration report described as having been audited statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting have been properly prepared in accordance with the records, if we have not received all the information and Companies Act 1985. explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and Deloitte & Touche LLP transactions with the Company and other members of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Group is not disclosed.
London We review whether the corporate governance 24 February 2005 statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2004 47
