INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report Independent Auditors report to the Members of We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, Imperial Chemical Industries PLC including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited We have audited the financial statements on pages 58 to 118. part of the Directors remuneration report, and consider whether We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider report that is described as having been audited.
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, statements.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Basis of audit opinion Companys members those matters we are required to state to We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes 56 extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an we have formed.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and the Directors remuneration report.
As described on page 55, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements information and explanations which we considered necessary in in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, are assurance that the financial statements and the part of the established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the In our opinion Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of not received all the information and explanations we require for affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors We review whether the corporate governance statement on remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared pages 36 to 40 reflects the Companys compliance with the nine in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the KPMG Audit Plc Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Chartered Accountants consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover Registered Auditor all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of London the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
17 February 2005 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
