41 Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects We have audited the financial statements which comprise the the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated and FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the note of We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements historical cost profits and losses, and the related notes and the on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance by Part III of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the Board report on remuneration the auditable part.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the financial statements in accordance with applicable United examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also of the Board report on remuneration.
It also includes an responsible for preparing the Board report on remuneration.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys auditable part of the Board report on remuneration in accordance circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices information and explanations which we considered necessary in Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
of the Board report on remuneration are free from material We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion: statements and the auditable part of the Board report on the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance with the of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2004 and Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have the financial statements have been properly prepared in not received all the information and explanations we require for accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors those parts of the Board report on remuneration required by remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Part III of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been We read the other information contained in the Annual report properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only  LLP the Contents, the Introduction, the Chairmans statement, the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Chief Executives review, the Operational review, the Financial London review, the Corporate social responsibility report, Inchcape in 28 February 2005 the community, Environment, health and safety, Working for Inchcape, the Corporate governance report, Board of Directors, the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Board report on remuneration, Directors responsibilities, the Five year record and Company details.
