InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 73 Report of the independent auditors INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS We read other information contained in the Annual Report and OF INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year statements.
This other information comprises the Financial ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the Group profit and Highlights, Operating and Financial Review, International Financial loss account, statement of total recognised Group gains and Reporting Information, Directors Report, Corporate Governance losses, note of historical cost Group profits and losses, statement, Audit Committee Report, unaudited part of the reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds, Group cash Remuneration Report, US GAAP Information and Four Year flow statement, balance sheets, accounting policies and the Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become related notes 1 to 38.
These financial statements have been aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to We have also audited the information in the Remuneration Report any other information.
that is described as having been audited.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Companys members those matters we are required to state to to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups or for the opinions we have formed.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the AND AUDITORS information and explanations which we considered necessary The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable including the financial statements which are required to be assurance that the financial statements and the part of the prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material accounting standards as set out in the Statement of Directors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom OPINION Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view Authority.
of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at We report to you, our opinion as to whether the financial 31 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Ernst & Young LLP, Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Registered Auditor, London.
Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have 9 March 2005 not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
