Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc We have audited the financial statements of Interserve Plc for the year consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial account, the balance sheets, the consolidated statement of total recognised statements.
gains and losses, the consolidated cash flow statement, the notes to the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 29.
These Basis of audit opinion financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and the opinions we have formed.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Companys having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report contained in the annual report including the directors remuneration report.
described as having been audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in Opinion accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory In our opinion: requirements and auditing standards.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the of the Group for the year then ended: and directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration report report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with described as having been audited have been properly prepared in the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting accordance with the Companies Act 1985. records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Deloitte & Touche LLP Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Chartered Accountants Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial and Registered Auditors Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to London consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks 7 March 2005 and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 43
