Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the accounts Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial of the Company and of the Group, and of the profit or loss for that position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure period.
In preparing the accounts, the directors are required to: that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors have a reasonable make estimates and judgements which are reasonable and expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in prudent: and operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, state whether applicable accounting standards have been they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and the accounts.
Report of the independent auditors to the shareholders of Invensys plc We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and 31 March 2004 which comprise the Consolidated profit and loss controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys account, Consolidated balance sheet, Company balance sheet, corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Consolidated cash flow statement, Consolidated statement of total We read the other information contained in the annual report and recognised gains and losses, Reconciliation of movements in consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
This consolidated shareholders deficit, Accounting policies and the other information comprises the Directors report, the unaudited related notes 1 to 29.
These accounts have been prepared on the part of the Remuneration report, the Financial summary and the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the audited the information in the Remuneration report that is implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent described as having been audited.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to Basis of audit opinion the Companys members those matters we are required to state We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment report, or for the opinions we have formed.
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, applied and adequately disclosed.
the Remuneration report and the accounts in accordance with We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are information and explanations which we considered necessary in set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the assurance that the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Remuneration We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a report to be audited.
true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared Opinion in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you In our opinion: if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, the Company and of the Group as at 31 March 2004 and of the if we have not received all the information and explanations we loss of the Group for the year then ended: and require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the the accounts and the part of the Remuneration report to be Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the with the Company is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Ernst & oung LLP Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and Registered Auditor, London we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether 19 May 2004 28 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
