Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc We have audited the accounts on pages 55 to 78.
We have also audited Basis of audit opinion the information in the directors remuneration report that is described We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued as having been audited.
by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
It also includes an assessment of the significant work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors of the accounts, and whether the accounting policies are report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than and adequately disclosed.
the company and the companys members as a body for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report to be the directors remuneration report.
As described on the previous page, audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the in the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing to be audited.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority and by our professions ethical guidance.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the directors the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared company and the group as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, of the group for the year then ended: and in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the accounts, the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have on pages 52 to 54, to be audited have been properly prepared not received all the information and explanations we require for in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. our audit or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We review whether the Corporate Governance statement on pages Registered Auditor 46 to 48 reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions Manchester of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules 10 March 2005 and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
