36 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT page thirty six INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF iSOFT GROUP PLC We have audited the financial statements Company has not kept proper accounting disclosures in the financial statements and on pages 39 to 69.
We have also audited records, if we have not received all the the part of the Remuneration Report to be the information in the Remuneration Report information and explanations we require for audited.
It also includes an assessment of that is described as having been audited.
our audit, or if information specified by law the significant estimates and judgements or the Listing Rules regarding directors made by the directors in the preparation of This report is made solely to the remuneration and transactions with the the financial statements, and of whether Companys shareholders, as a body, in Company and other members of the Group the accounting policies are appropriate to accordance with Section 235 of the is not disclosed.
the Group's circumstances, consistently Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has applied and adequately disclosed.
been undertaken so that we might state to We review whether the Corporate the Companys shareholders those matters Governance Statement reflects the We planned and performed our audit we are required to state to them in an Companys compliance with the seven so as to obtain all the information and auditors report and for no other purpose.
provisions of the Combined Code specified explanations which we considered To the fullest extent permitted by law, we for our review by the Listing Rules and we necessary in order to provide us with do not accept or assume responsibility to report if it does not.
We are not required to sufficient evidence to give reasonable anyone other than the Company and the consider whether the Boards statements assurance that the financial statements Companys shareholders as a body, for our on internal control cover all risks and and the part of the Remuneration Report audit work, for this report, or for the controls or form an opinion on the to be audited are free from material opinions we have formed.
effectiveness of the Groups corporate misstatement, whether caused by fraud governance procedures or its risk and or other irregularity or error.
In forming RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF control procedures.
our opinion we also evaluated the overall DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS adequacy of the presentation of information The directors responsibilities for preparing We read other information contained in the in the financial statements and the part of the Annual Report, the Remuneration Annual Report and consider whether it is the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Report and the financial statements in consistent with the audited financial accordance with applicable law and United statements.
The other information OPINION Kingdom Accounting Standards are set out comprises the Letter from the Chairman, In our opinion: in the Statement of Directors the Chief Executives Report, the Operating the financial statements give a true Responsibilities on page 20. and Finance Review, the Corporate and fair view of the state of affairs of Governance Report, the Corporate Social Our responsibility is to audit the financial the Company and the Group as at Responsibility Statement, the unaudited statements and the part of the 30 April 2004 and of the Groups part of the Remuneration Report, the Audit Remuneration Report to be audited in profit for the year then ended: and Committee Report and the Five Year accordance with relevant legal and the financial statements and the part Summary.
We consider the implications for regulatory requirements, United Kingdom of the Remuneration Report to be our report if we become aware of any Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of audited have been properly prepared apparent misstatements or material the Financial Services Authority.
We report in accordance with the Companies inconsistencies with the financial to you our opinion as to whether the Act 1985. statements.
Our responsibilities do not financial statements give a true and fair extend to any other information.
view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION be audited have been properly prepared in We conducted our audit in accordance with RSM Robson Rhodes LLP accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued Chartered Accountants and We also report to you if, in our opinion, the by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Registered Auditors Report of the Directors is not consistent includes examination, on a test basis, of Manchester, England with the financial statements, if the evidence relevant to the amounts and 23 June 2004
