Independent Auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards cash flow statement, the Group statement of total recognised issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in equity examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the shareholders funds and the related notes, which have been amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and prepared under the historical cost convention as modified the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report.
It by the revaluation of certain fixed assets and the accounting also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and policies set out in the notes to the financial statements.
judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently Directors Remuneration report the auditable part.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual the information and explanations which we considered report and the financial statements in accordance with necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report The Directors are also responsible for preparing the are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Directors Remuneration report.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and of information in the financial statements.
the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Opinion and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing In our opinion: Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body of affairs of the Company and the Group at 27 March 2004 in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, then ended: accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose the financial statements have been properly prepared in hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and consent in writing.
those parts of the Directors Remuneration report required We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have statements give a true and fair view and whether the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Act 1985.
Remuneration report have been properly prepared in  LLP accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has London not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received 18 May 2004 all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Operating and financial review, the Report of the Directors, the Statement of corporate governance and the unaudited part of the Remuneration report.
We review whether the Statement of corporate governance reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 21
