Independent auditors report to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc Independent auditors report to the members of We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects J D Wetherspoon plc the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We statement, the note of historical cost profits and the related are not required to consider whether the boards statements on notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of internal control cover all risks and controls or to form an opinion Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the on the effectiveness of the companys corporate governance directors remuneration report the auditable part.
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the financial statements in accordance with applicable United issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of auditable part of the directors remuneration report, in accordance whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all of the and only for the companys members as a body, in accordance information and explanations which we considered necessary in with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to the directors remuneration report are free from material whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Opinion statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration In our opinion: report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether, in ourthe financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial the companys affairs at 25 July 2004 and of its profit and cash statements, whether the company has not kept proper flows for the year then ended: accounting records, whether we have not received all of thethe financial statements have been properly prepared in information and explanations we require for our audit or whether accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and information specified by law, regarding directors remunerationthose parts of the directors remuneration report required by and transactions, is not disclosed.
Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report, if we become aware  LLP of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the financial statements.
The other information comprises only London the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors 3 September 2004 remuneration report, the chairmans statement and operating review, the finance review the corporate social responsibility report and the corporate governance statement.
