independent auditors report to the members of Hilton Group plc We have audited the groups financial if the company has not kept proper and the part of the Directors statements for the year ended 31 accounting records, if we have not received Remuneration Report to be audited December 2004 which comprise the all the information and explanations we are free from material misstatement, Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, require for our audit, or if information whether caused by fraud or other Consolidated Balance Sheet, Company specified by law or the Listing Rules irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow regarding directors remuneration and we also evaluated the overall adequacy Statement, Consolidated Statement of transactions with the group is not disclosed.
of the presentation of information in the Total Recognised Gains and Losses, financial statements and the part of the Reconciliation of Consolidated We review whether the Corporate Directors Remuneration Report to Shareholders Funds and the related Governance Statement reflects the groups be audited.
These financial statements compliance with the nine provisions of the have been prepared on the basis of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by Opinion accounting policies set out therein.
We the Listing Rules of the Financial Services In our opinion: have also audited the information in the Authority, and we report if it does not.
the financial statements give a true Directors Remuneration Report that is We are not required to consider whether and fair view of the state of affairs of described as having been audited.
the boards statements on internal control the company and of the group as at cover all risks and controls, or form an 31 December 2004 and of the profit of This report is made solely to the companys opinion on the effectiveness of the groups the group for the year then ended: and members, as a body, in accordance with corporate governance procedures or its the financial statements and the part of Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. risk and control procedures.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be Our audit work has been undertaken so audited have been properly prepared in that we might state to the companys We read other information contained accordance with the Companies Act 1985. members those matters we are required in the Annual Report and consider whether to state to them in an auditors report and it is consistent with the audited financial for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent statements.
This other information comprises Ernst & Young LLP permitted by law, we do not accept or the Directors Report, unaudited part of the Registered Auditor assume responsibility to anyone other than Directors Remuneration Report, Chairmans London the company and the companys members Statement, Operating and Financial Review 24 February 2005 as a body, for our audit work, for this and Corporate Governance Statement.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Respective responsibilities apparent misstatements or material of directors and auditors inconsistencies with the financial The directors are responsible for preparing statements.
Our responsibilities do the Annual Report, including the financial not extend to any other information.
statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with applicable Basis of audit opinion United Kingdom law and accounting We conducted our audit in accordance standards as set out in the Statement with United Kingdom Auditing Standards of Directors Responsibilities in relation issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Our responsibility is to audit the financial and disclosures in the financial statements statements and the part of the Directors and the part of the Directors Remuneration Remuneration Report to be audited Report to be audited.
It also includes an in accordance with relevant legal and assessment of the significant estimates regulatory requirements, United Kingdom and judgements made by the directors Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules in the preparation of the financial statements, of the Financial Services Authority.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups We report to you our opinion as to whether circumstances, consistently applied the financial statements give a true and fair and adequately disclosed.
view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration We planned and performed our audit Report to be audited have been properly so as to obtain all the information and prepared in accordance with the Companies explanations which we considered Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our necessary in order to provide us with opinion, the Directors Report is not sufficient evidence to give reasonable consistent with the financial statements, assurance that the financial statements www.
