Independent auditors report 51 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members We read the other information contained in the Opinion of LogicaCMG plc annual report and consider the implications for our In our opinion: We have audited the financial statements which report if we become aware of any apparent the financial statements give a true and fair comprise the profit and loss account, the balance misstatements or material inconsistencies with the view of the state of affairs of the company and sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of financial statements.
The other information the group at 31 December 2004 and of the total recognised gains and losses and the related comprises only the chairmans statement, the profit and cash flows of the group for the year notes which have been prepared under the chief executives report, the corporate social then ended historical cost convention and the accounting responsibility statement, the financial review, the the financial statements have been properly policies set out in the statement of accounting directors report, the unaudited part of the prepared in accordance with the Companies policies.
We have also audited the disclosures directors remuneration report, the corporate Act 1985 required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the governance statement and the five-year summary.
those parts of the directors remuneration Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to remuneration report the auditable part.
We review whether the corporate governance the Companies Act 1985 have been properly statement reflects the companys compliance prepared in accordance with the Companies Respective responsibilities of directors with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Act 1985. and auditors Combined Code specified for our review by the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, annual report and the financial statements in and we report if it does not.
We are not required accordance with applicable United Kingdom law to consider whether the boards statements on and accounting standards are set out in the internal control cover all risks and controls, or statement of directors responsibilities.
The form an opinion on the effectiveness of the directors are also responsible for preparing the groups corporate governance procedures or its directors remuneration report.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Our responsibility is to audit the financial Basis of audit opinion statements and the auditable part of the We conducted our audit in accordance with London directors remuneration report in accordance auditing standards issued by the Auditing 1 March 2005 with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, amounts and disclosures in the financial including the opinion, has been prepared for and statements and the auditable part of the only for the companys members as a body in directors remuneration report.
It also includes accordance with Section 235 of the Companies an assessment of the significant estimates and Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, judgements made by the directors in the in giving this opinion, accept or assume preparation of the financial statements, and of responsibility for any other purpose or to any whether the accounting policies are appropriate other person to whom this report is shown or to the companys circumstances, consistently into whose hands it may come save where applied and adequately disclosed.
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We planned and performed our audit so as to We report to you our opinion as to whether the obtain all the information and explanations which financial statements give a true and fair view and we considered necessary in order to provide us whether the financial statements and the auditable with sufficient evidence to give reasonable part of the directors remuneration report have assurance that the financial statements and the been properly prepared in accordance with the auditable part of the directors remuneration Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in report are free from material misstatement, our opinion, the directors report is not consistent whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or with the financial statements, if the company has error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated not kept proper accounting records, if we have the overall adequacy of the presentation of not received all the information and explanations information in the financial statements.
we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
