28 28 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 29 to 66.
Basis of audit opinion We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards report that is described as having been audited.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Companys members those matters we are required to state to them the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the remuneration report to be audited are free from material directors remuneration report.
As described on pages 5 to 8, this misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are the directors remuneration report to be audited.
established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by Opinion our professions ethical guidance.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 September 2004 give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the parts of the directors remuneration report to be audited are the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not with the Companies Act 1985. consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and KPMG Audit Plc transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor We review whether the statement on pages 9 to 13 reflects the London Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined 24 November 2004 Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in both the annual report and the annual review, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
