Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 35 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF LUMINAR PLC We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement We have audited the Financial Statements that comprise reflects the Companys compliance with the seven the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, the Balance Sheets, provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the Related Notes.
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the required to consider whether the Boards statements on Directors Remuneration Report the auditable part.
internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes are also responsible for preparing the Directors examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Remuneration Report.
amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements of the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, information and explanations which we considered necessary accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give to any other person to whom this report is shown or into reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report by our prior consent in writing.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation Statements give a true and fair view and whether the of information in the Financial Statements.
Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in OPINION accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report In our opinion: to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept the financial statements give a true and fair view of proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at information and explanations we require for our audit, 29 February 2004 and the loss and cash flows of the or if information specified by law regarding Directors Group for the year then ended: remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the Annual Report those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with with the financial statements.
The other information comprises the Companies Act 1985. only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Statement, the Finance Directors Review, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement.
 LLP REGISTERED AUDITORS AND CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 20 MAY 2004
