7878v04 GC Rp p44-89 020305. qxp 2 3 05 11:28 pm Page 45 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 45 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN plc We have audited the financial statements of Anglo American plc We read the directors report and the other information contained for the year ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the in the annual report for the above year as described in the consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated balance contents section including the unaudited part of the directors sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated remuneration report and consider the implications for our report statement of total recognised gains and losses, the Company if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 38.
These financial inconsistencies with the financial statements.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION specified by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom 2002 to be audited which is set out in sections 1 to 8 of the auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a statements and the part of the directors remuneration report body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might of the significant estimates and judgements made by the state to the Companys members those matters we are required directors in the preparation of the financial statements and to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and applied and adequately disclosed.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS assurance that the financial statements and the part of the As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors remuneration report described as having been audited Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud the financial statements in accordance with applicable United or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of responsible for the preparation of the other information information in the financial statements and the part of the contained in the annual report including the directors directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report OPINION described as having been audited in accordance with relevant In our opinion: United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial and statements and the part of the directors remuneration report the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration described as having been audited have been properly prepared report described as having been audited have been properly in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper Deloitte & Touche LLP accounting records, if we have not received all the information Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and explanations we require for our audit, or if information London specified by law regarding directors remuneration and 22 February 2005 transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
