com Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Basis of audit opinion Marks and Spencer Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing We have audited the financial statements which comprise Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit the consolidated profit and loss account, the balance includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant sheets, the consolidated cash ow statement, the note of to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements group historical cost profits and losses, the consolidated and the auditable part of the remuneration report.
It also statement of total recognised gains and losses and the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Act 1985 contained in the remuneration report the are appropriate to the Companys and Groups circumstances, auditable part.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the information and explanations which we considered The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Report, the remuneration report and the financial give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom the auditable part of the remuneration report are free from law and accounting standards are set out in the statement material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other of directors responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the auditable part of the remuneration report in accordance the financial statements.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Opinion Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been In our opinion: prepared for and only for the Companys members as a the financial statements give a true and fair view of body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this 3 April 2004 and of the profit and cash ows of the opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other Group for the period then ended: purpose or to any other person to whom this report is the financial statements have been properly prepared shown or into whose hands it may come save where in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and 27 expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
those parts of the remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies statements give a true and fair view and whether the Act 1985. financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to  LLP you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept London proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 24 May 2004 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the chairmans message, chief executives and financial review, the corporate governance statement, the unaudited part of the remuneration report, directors interests and the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors report, the group financial record and the Annual Review.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
