25 Regus Report & Accounts 2004 Independent Auditors Report We have audited the financial statements on pages 26 to 48.
We We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the have also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that information and explanations which we considered necessary is described as having been audited.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall members those matters we are required to state to them in an adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as OPINION a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we In our opinion: have formed.
The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Remuneration Report.
As described on page 24, The financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting the Companies Act 1985. standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
KPMG AUDIT PLC CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND REGISTERED AUDITOR We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements London give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and 11 March 2005 the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 15 reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Financial Reporting Council Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the un-audited part of the Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
