11 Independent Auditors report We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group cash flow all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the statement, the statement of total Group recognised gains and losses, Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control the note of Group historical cost profits and losses, the reconciliation procedures.
of movements in Group shareholders funds and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule Basis of audit opinion 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued remuneration report the auditable part.
by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied preparing the Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information part of the Directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the report are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the financial statements.
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Opinion consent in writing.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements affairs of the Company and the Group at 2 October 2004 and give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: auditable part of the Directors remuneration report have been properly the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report with the Companies Act 1985: and to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the those parts of the Directors remuneration report required by Part 3 financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly records, if we have not received all the information and explanations prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any  LLP apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, Birmingham statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, 3 December 2004 the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Financial review, the Corporate and social responsibility report and the Corporate governance statement.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required 36 W&DB 2004 Annual report
