3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 57 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Chairmans introduction Portfolio and other information The governance and oversight of 3is business model and strategic objectives iskey to the continuing value creation forour shareholders.
This section of the report describes how 3i is Good corporate governance is fundamental to 3i and its activities.
Governance and oversight of the Groups business model and governed and managed.
It gives details on our strategy are critical to the delivery of value to the Groups Board and Executive Committee members and stakeholders.
This is more important than ever given the volatile explains how the Board is organised and operates.
and uncertain economic and political environment and the changing regulatory landscape that our sector faces.
It also explains the roles and composition of Board Committees and the division of responsibilities The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management and oversight of the Group and for its long-term between the Directors, including between the success.
In particular, the Board is responsible for agreeing the Chairman and Chief Executive.
This section Groups strategy, monitoring financial performance, setting and alsoincludes the Directors remuneration report monitoring the Groups risk appetite and maintaining an effective andreports from the Audit and Compliance system of internal controls.
Committee, the Valuations Committee and It is the Boards responsibility to ensure that the Group has a clear theNominations Committee.
strategy and that the necessary people, resources and structures are in place to support the delivery of this strategy.
Simon Thompson Chairman Statement of Compliance The Board has considered the Companys compliance with the main principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, publicly available at www.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year under review.
