Corporate governance overview UK Corporate Governance Code a significant shareholder, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code issued by Corporation, and he is therefore not considered to be independent.
the Financial Reporting Council applied to this Annual Report.
Gerhard Fusenig previously served on the Board as the The Group has complied throughout the year with the Code except representative of our significant shareholder at the time, Credit where noted in the report below.
This report describes Aberdeens Suisse.
Gerhard stepped off the Board in 2012 when Credit Suisse corporate governance arrangements, explaining how the Group sold down their holdings.
Gerhard subsequently retired from Credit has applied the principles of the 2014 Code.
The Code is publicly Suisse and, as a consequence, the Board are content to recognise available on www.
uk Gerhard as an independent non-executive director.
The Board, having given thorough consideration to the matter, considers five Board composition non-executive directors to be independent.
The Board currently comprises of the Chairman, six non-executive directors and five executive directors.
The Board has given careful We did not comply during the year, nor do we currently comply consideration to its structure and balance and is continuing to with the Code provision, B.
1.2 in respect of the number of refresh Board and committee membership in an orderly manner.
Whilst not complying, we believe we meet the underlying principle of having a Board that is well balanced Roger Cornick, who had been Chairman since 2009, stepped down between executive and independent non-executive directors on 30 September 2016 and was replaced by Simon Troughton, and each individual makes an important contribution.
We do not who was previously Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
believe it would be beneficial to increase the size of the Board Gerhard Fusenig joined the Board as an independent nonfurther.
We have one non-executive director appointed by a longexecutive on 25 April 2016.
Anne Richards and Jim Pettigrew term shareholder whose interests align with our other shareholders.
stepped down from the Board on 12 February 2016 and 22 April All directors are subject to annual election by shareholders.
Committee changes Julie Chakraverty was appointed Senior Independent NonDuring the year there were a number of changes to committee Executive Director on 1 October 2016.
She provides a sounding membership, brought on primarily by the Board changes.
board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Full details are contained in the respective reports for each directors, where necessary.
committee, detailed in pages 61 to 85.
As a consequence of the The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, Board changes seen during the year, each of the Board committees clearly defined and have been approved by the Board.
has seen a new chairman appointed.
Simon Troughton replaced Roger Cornick as chairman of nominations, Richard Mully The Chairman, Simon Troughton, is responsible for the leadership succeeded Simon Troughton as chairman of remuneration, Julie of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its Chakraverty succeeded Richard Mully as chairman of risk, and Val role.
The Chief Executive, Martin Gilbert, is responsible for the day Rahmani succeeded Julie Chakraverty as chairman of innovation.
to day management of the Group.
Each of these changes took place subsequent to the year-end.
Independence In addition, during the year, Jutta af Rosenborg succeeded Jim In considering director independence, the Board has taken into Pettigrew as chairman of the audit committee.
consideration the guidance provided by the Code.
Of the nonexecutive directors, Akira Suzuki has been appointed by Committee members Board appointment date Audit Nominations Risk Remuneration Innovation Simon Troughton 29 July 2009 Julie Chakraverty 4 May 2011 Gerhard Fusenig 25 April 2016 Richard Mully 23 April 2012 Val Rahmani 3 February 2015 Jutta af Rosenborg 18 January 2013 Andrew Laing 23 January 2004 Executive director Key Audit committee Nominations committee Remuneration committee Risk committee Innovation committee Chairman of committee 52 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Corporate governance framework and responsibilities Set the Groups strategy, goals and objectives Board of Set, with advice from the risk committee, the Groups risk 1 appetite, ensuring consistency with the Groups strategy directors Approve budgets and business plan Board committees 3 4 2 Nominations committee Risk committee Audit committee Regularly review the structure, size Support the Board in its consideration Monitor the integrity the Groups and composition of the Board against of the business activities that expose financial statements its business needs the business to current and future Review and assess the internal material risks Consider appropriate succession audit function planning for directors and other Advise the Board on setting Assess annually the independence and senior executives risk appetite objectivity of the external auditor and Review the leadership needs of Ensure senior management have in oversee quality of audit work the organisation place procedures and mechanisms to identify and control risks Oversee the compliance function 5 6 Remuneration committee Innovation committee Determine the remuneration strategy Agree what aspects of innovation are for the Group important at Aberdeen Determine the remuneration packages Encourage staff to offer their blue sky for the Chairman, all executive thinking and provide input to the directors and the senior employees existing corporate culture Review any performance-related Focus on exploring and prioritising pay schemes and all share incentive new ideas plans for approval by the Board and shareholders Responsible for developing and implementing strategy Chief Ensures effective and motivated leadership is in place 7 Executive Manages the performance of the business Oversee implementation of divisional plans and budgets Group Review and consider risks within the Group management Take decisions on and direct the day to day management of 8 the Group except where matters are reserved for decision board by the Board 1,7 5 See pages 54 to 55 for Board of directors' biographies See pages 68 to 85 for remuneration report 2 6 See pages 61 to 63 for audit committee See pages 64 for innovation committee 3 8 See pages 65 for nominations committee See pages 56 to 57 for Group management board biographies 4 See pages 66 to 67 for risk committee aberdeen-asset.
