governance overview Kelvin dushnisKy CHaIRMaN OF THE BOaRD There have been no significant changes to Board Dear shareholders, composition in 2016.
However, this year we revisited Board as I noted in my Chairmans statement, 2016 was a Committee composition to ensure that the composition of pleasing year for acacia overall.
We delivered against each Board Committee is best aligned to acacias needs.
as a result of this review, we have decided to alter the our primary objective of generating free cash flow and composition of our audit and EHS&S Committees, with delivered our highest ever levels of Group production.
Firstly, we have The turnaround of the business, helped by external decided to appoint Peter Tomsett as a member of the tailwinds, meant that the share price performed EHS&S Committee to replace Brad Gordon.
This decision extremely strongly during 2016, rising 108% was taken to reflect our preference to have Board over the year.
Committees comprised of Non-Executive Directors and, at the same time, to ensure that the EHS&S Committee maintains appropriate mining operational skill sets relevant To support these achievements, throughout 2016 the Board to its remit of responsibilities.
Secondly, it was decided that continued to perform key oversight and monitoring activities Steve Lucas should replace Peter Tomsett as a member of across the Companys core business areas financial, the audit Committee.
Steves financial and audit committee operational and exploration and we continued to conduct experience across the extractive industry will further further strategic and risk reviews focused on longer-term enhance the skill set of acacias audit Committee and growth objectives.
we feel he is a natural addition to the Committee.
Kelvin Dushnisky Chairman of the Board progreSS in 2016 the boardS plan for 2017 The Board focused on the following areas in 2016: The Boards focus areas for 2017 include: Conducting performance evaluations Continuing focus on risk management and internal controls Conducting risk reviews Conducting additional strategy and risk reviews Overseeing further asset optimisation and cost control reviews Overseeing operational, financial and exploration project performance Overseeing operational, financial and exploration project performance Reviewing growth opportunities Reviewing growth opportunities 60 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governance Board structure management committees executive leadership team Further support the Board and comprise Responsible for day-to-day management the following key Committees: of our business and operations and for monitoring detailed performance of all board Disclosure aspects of our business Reserves and resources Capital allocation board committees audit committee ehS&S committee nomination & compenSation committee reviews and monitors oversees the development governance committee reviews and recommends financial statements of strategy and policy makes recommendations overall Remuneration Policy oversees relationships with on sustainable communities, to the Board on its and strategy internal and external auditors environmental, composition and that reviews and approves oversees external audit health and safety and of its Committees remuneration arrangements process security matters reviews and oversees the for Executive Directors and reviews internal audit plans reviews the effectiveness of formulation and adoption of Executive Leadership Team compliance matters sustainable communities, acacia corporate governance environmental, health policies and procedures and safety and security management programmes and systems 2016 Membership 2016 Membership 2016 Membership 2016 Membership andre Falzon Chair ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu Kelvin Dushnisky Chair Michael Kenyon Chair Chair Peter Tomsett ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu Peter Tomsett Brad Gordon Rachel English Peter Tomsett Steve Lucas Rachel English non-executive The Chairman creates the conditions for overall Board and individual Director effectiveness.
The Chairman is required to chairman demonstrate the highest standards of integrity and probity, and set clear expectations concerning the Companys culture, values and behaviours, and the style and tone of Board discussions.
The Chairmans role is wide-ranging and includes:demonstrating ethical leadership: setting a Board agenda which is primarily focused on strategy, performance, value creation and accountability, and ensuring that issues relevant to these areas are reserved for Board decision: making certain that the Board determines the nature, and extent, of the significant risks the Company is willing to embrace in the implementation of its strategy: regularly considering succession planning and the composition of the Board: making certain that the Board has effective decision-making processes and applies sufficient challenge to major proposals: encouraging all Board members to engage in Board and Committee meetings by drawing on their skills, experience, knowledge and, where appropriate, independence: and consulting the Senior Independent Director on Board matters, as necessary in any given context.
executive The CEO is the most senior Executive Director on the Board with responsibility for proposing strategy to the Board, and for director delivering the strategy as agreed.
The CEO has, with the support of the ELT, primary responsibility for setting an example to the Companys employees, and communicating to them the expectations of the Board in relation to the Companys culture, values and behaviours.
The CEO is responsible for supporting the Chairman to make certain that appropriate standards of governance permeate throughout acacia.
The CEO ensures that the Board is made aware, when appropriate, of the views of employees on issues of relevance to the business.
In addition, the CEO ensures the Board knows the ELTs views on business issues in order to improve the standard of discussion in the boardroom and, prior to final decision on an issue, explain in a balanced way any divergence of view in the executive team.
non-executive Non-Executive Directors have a responsibility to uphold high standards of integrity and probity and are required to have a strong directors command of the issues relevant to the business in order to make a positive contribution to the Board.
Non-Executive Directors support the Chairman and the CEO in instilling the appropriate culture, values and behaviours in the boardroom and beyond.
all Non-Executive Directors are required to ensure that there is sufficient consideration of business issues prior to, and informed debate and challenge at, Board meetings.
In making decisions, they take into account the views of shareholders and other stakeholders, given that such views may provide different perspectives on the Company and its performance.
acacia Mining plc aNNuaL REPORT & aCCOuNTS 2016 61
