Corporate Governance: Governance overview What a great view Board of Directors Board Committees Audit Committee Group Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Membership at Membership at Membership at Membership at 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 Colin Holmes Chair Jean Park Chair Alastair Lyons Chair Annette Court Chair 1 1 Owen Clarke Annette Court Colin Holmes Owen Clarke 2 Annette Court Manning Rountree Penny James Jean Park Penny James David Stevens Meetings during 2016: Meetings during 2016: Meetings during 2016: Meetings during 2016: 7 6 2 5 Read more on Page 54 Read more on Page 58 Read more on Page 62 Read more on Page 64 1 Owen Clarke joined the Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2016 and the Remuneration Committee with effect from 28 April 2016.
2 Penny James joined the Nomination Committee with effect from 28 April 2016.
Gender Board diversity composition Chairman: 1 Male: 6 Executive: 2 Female: 4 Non-Executive: 7 People and Corporate responsibility Read more on Gender diversity on Page 78 44 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Governance overview the chair as she has considerable carrying out board evaluations of experience, both of the industry listed companies.
The process of and as a non-executive director of evaluating the Boards performance Admiral.
As a consequence there will this year consisted of each Board be review of the composition of the member completing a questionnaire Groups committees, in particular detailing specific areas of focus those of which Annette is currently for the Board including succession a member, to ensure that they planning and Board composition, continue to comply with governance the priorities for change, the impact requirements.
In May, Henry of previous evaluations, and board Engelhardt retired as Chief Executive expertise to meet future challenges.
although he continues to work The completed questionnaires then with our businesses in the UK and formed the basis for discussion overseas.
The Group was fortunate during the separate meetings that Succession planning has to have someone of David Stevens Ian had with each Board member been a key area of focus capability and experience to pursue and attendee.
Ian presented the for the Board in 2016 the Groups successful development results of the evaluation and areas as CEO.
In April, we also said goodbye for development to the Board at to Non-Executive Directors Lucy the meeting in February 2017.
A Kellaway and Margaret Johnson who summary of the outcomes of the Dear Shareholder, both stepped down at the AGM in Boards discussion and consideration On behalf of the Board I am April, each having served 9 years on of the results of the evaluation are pleased to present the Corporate the Board.
set out in more detail at page 49 of Governance Report for the financial this report.
In the context of the Board changes year ended 31 December 2016.
The that occurred during the year We confirm the Groups compliance focus of the Board continues to and in order to ensure that the with the principles and provisions be on maintaining high standards Board continued to represent set out in the UK Corporate of corporate governance which the right mix of skills, experience Governance Code 2014 the Code it achieves by ensuring the and background, the Nomination which is applicable to the year appropriateness and effectiveness Committee reviewed the balance under review.
A new version of the of the Groups management and and composition of the Board.
Code was introduced in September control framework.
This Report Following this review, we were 2016 and will apply to the Groups sets out the Admiral framework pleased to welcome Justine Roberts 2017 financial year: we will report of governance and the approach who joined the Board in June.
Justine on the implementation of the new the Board has taken during is CEO and co-founder of internet responsibilities set out in the Code in 2016 to promote the standards company, Mumsnet.
com, which has next years report.
of good corporate governance grown into the UKs biggest online that are rightly expected by This Corporate Governance Report is network for parents.
structured in order to demonstrate been responsible for the creation, to shareholders that the Board We believe that having a sound strategic direction and overall has complied during 2016 in all corporate governance framework management of Mumsnet, building respects with each section of the enables effective and efficient it into one of the most recognisable Code - Leadership: Effectiveness: decision making and promotes internet brands in the UK.
She brings Accountability: and Relations the right balance of skills and a wealth of experience interacting with Shareholders.
Remuneration experience to assess and manage with consumers across social media.
is dealt with in the separate the risks in the markets in which Such experience will be invaluable as Remuneration Report.
the Group seeks to grow its digital channels in the coming years.
Succession planning has been a key area of focus for the Board in As I highlighted in last years annual 2016.
As you will have seen from report, the Board undertook an my Chairmans letter earlier in this externally facilitated evaluation report, I will be retiring as Chairman this year, being three years after Alastair Lyons, CBE at the forthcoming AGM in April the last external evaluation.
This Chairman after serving for 16 years.
I am was facilitated by Ian White, an 7 March 2017 delighted that Annette Court has independent external consultant been selected by the Board to take with extensive experience of Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45
