40 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Chairmans introduction 2016 has been a year of consolidation and evolution as we have strived to build on a strong governance framework that we established in preparation for our listing.
Danuta Gray, Interim Chairman UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code statement of compliance The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and confirms that, during the year under review, the Group has complied with the requirements of the Code, which sets out principles relating to the good governance of companies.
Following the resignation of Glyn Jones as Chairman with effect from 6 February 2017, and the subsequent appointment of Danuta Gray as Interim Chairman, Danuta Gray is currently not discharging her role as Senior Independent Director.
These responsibilities will be resumed on appointment of a new Chairman.
The Code is available at www.
uk This corporate governance report describes how the Board has applied the principles of the Code and provides a clear and comprehensive description of the Groups governance arrangements.
41 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Director in October 2016 subsequent brand.
During the year, the Executive Dear Shareholder to him resigning from AnaCap.
Committee initiated a new programme As your Interim Chairman, I am Peter Cartwright also resigned in April of Big Conversation discussions with delighted to introduce our corporate 2016 as a  our employees regarding the kind of governance report for the year ended Director due to time commitments.
company they want Aldermore to be.
We would like to extend our gratitude A dashboard of cultural metrics has Firstly, as I highlighted in my statement to both of them for their significant also been developed, and the Board will on page 7, on behalf of the Board I contribution during their respective continue to receive regular updates on would like to offer our sincere thanks tenures.
The Principal Shareholders these initiatives as they progress.
to Glyn Jones who decided to step retain the right to a second seat on The Board strongly supports the down from the Board on 6 February the Board but currently have one principle of diversity, of which gender 2017 to enable him to focus on his representative only.
is one important aspect, and we were new role as Chairman of Old Mutual Following the IPO, 2016 has been a therefore delighted to support the Wealth.
Since joining the Group in year of consolidation and evolution Group signing up to the Women in March 2014, Glyn chaired the Board as we have strived to build on the Finance Charter to promote wider through a significant period of growth strong governance framework that female representation in senior and change for the Company as it we established in preparation for our management roles in finance.
The Board successfully completed its IPO in listing.
The following pages describe has committed to a target of 30% for March 2015.
Prior to the Companys how we comply with the main principles our female senior managers by 2020, listing, Glyn played a pivotal role in of the Code, how the Board operates, and to maintaining our gender split at setting the foundations for our current and the key areas of focus for both the around 50 50.
In respect of possible governance framework, which has Board and its Committees during the targets at Board level, we have not provided a robust environment for year.
Whilst it is difficult to narrow down established a measurable target for the Group to deliver on its strategic our activities across the year to a few gender representation but remain and financial objectives within its highlights, the strengthening of our Risk committed to increasing all aspects risk appetite.
He has left a strong, Management Framework overseen by of diversity.
As set out in our Board experienced and dedicated Board of the Risk Committee: the broadening of Diversity Policy, Director appointments Directors to lead the Group through the financial performance measures are subject to a formal, rigorous and the next stage of its development, within the balanced scorecard for transparent procedure and are made on and we remain committed to building the annual bonus scheme, such that merit against a defined job specification on these foundations.
An external they are more aligned to our KPIs: and and criteria.
We will continue to monitor agency has been appointed to help the comprehensive tender process whether it is appropriate to set a with the process of selecting Glyns for the external auditor led by the Board target in the future taking into successor which is being managed Audit Committee, are all examples of account developments arising from through the Corporate Governance areas where our Committees have the Hampton Alexander Review and and Nomination Committee in line supported the Board in developing our seeking the views of the new Chairman with our agreed Chairman Succession governance arrangements.
We are making good progress with the search and look The Board recognises that one of forward to announcing a replacement in the keys to the Groups long-term due course.
Further information about success is the development of a healthy the search process is set out in the corporate culture.
As we continue to Corporate Governance and Nomination execute on our strategy, the Groups Committee Report on page 60. size and complexity will continue to increase, and the Board is cognisant In terms of other Board changes, we that the Groups culture has to evolve welcomed Chris Patrick as a NonDanuta Gray, alongside this.
Culture starts at the Executive Director in November 2016 Interim Chairman top, and the Board and the Executive when he replaced Neil Cochrane as Committee together have to drive the the representative of our Principal values and behaviours that support our Shareholders.
