Chairmans governance overview Since my last report, Neil Carson has retired from the board and Colin Day has taken on the role of Senior Independent Director.
Good corporate governance underpins effective Roy Franklin has been appointed Chairman of the Remuneration long-term company performance.
Your board is Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
Kent responsible for the Groups governance and is Masters has indicated his intention to retire from the board following the conclusion of the AGM and he will step down as a committed to delivering the highest standards member of the HSSEE Committee at the same time.
Bob Card for the benefit of all stakeholders.
joined the board on 1 March 2017 and is a member of the Audit and HSSEE Committees.
Bob has over 40 years of experience Dear shareholder in the oversight, operations and management of infrastructure, This section of the report examines the work of your board over power, mining and energy projects and I am delighted that he the past 12 months and the processes we have implemented.
We once again carried out a review of the effectiveness of your In addition to filing an annual report in the UK, we are required board.
Best practice is for these reviews to be facilitated by an to also file our annual report in the US on Form 20-F, which external specialist every three years, and we had a full external complies with the reporting requirements of the New York Stock review by Lintstock in 2015.
This year Lintstock assisted us Exchange, US securities laws and the rules of the Securities and with our internal review, which we carried out by questionnaire.
Exchange Commission applicable to foreign private issuers.
Lintstock prepared a report on the findings which was presented We have again produced a combined annual report and annual at the January 2017 board meeting and which are summarised report on Form 20-F to ensure we provide consistent information on page 58. to all our investors.
In April 2016, the UK Financial Reporting Council issued a revised As required by the SEC, a summary outlining the significant version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
differences between the Companys corporate governance Although we are not yet required to comply with this version practices as a UK listed company and those followed by US of the Code, our belief in adopting the highest standards means companies can be found on pages 208 to 209. that we have chosen to report against this framework this year.
As we have explained in the strategic report, your Company is In the opinion of the directors, your Company has complied with going through a period of significant change.
The board has an the provisions of the April 2016 edition of the Code, in respect important role to play in overseeing this transformation and we of the year ended 31 December 2016.
The governance report will continue to apply the highest standards of governance to examines how we have applied these provisions.
assure effective implementation to the benefit of shareholders.
This was the second year that your Company needed to comply with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which governs managements assessment of internal controls over financial reporting.
We have again successfully achieved compliance by 31 December 2016.
This process added further John Connolly requirements to the activities of your boards committees.
Chairman In my Chairmans report on page 8, I outline the board 25 April 2017 changes which have occurred since the start of 2016.
Printed copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be obtained from After a comprehensive search by Korn Ferry, the board www.
com appointed Jon Lewis as Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2016.
This followed Samir Brikho stepping down as Chief Executive Officer in January.
Ian McHoul, our Chief Financial Officer, was interim CEO until Jons appointment.
Amec Foster Wheeler 46 Annual report and accounts 2016
