Governance GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BOARD VISITS TO OPERATIONS Sir John Parker Chairman In order that directors have a good understanding of the business and have the opportunity to interact with employees from a range of backgrounds and seniority, we encourage them to visit the Groups operations.
In addition to the site visits described on page 75 and the Board and committee meetings, the non-executives interact with management throughout the year.
This is helpful to them to understand the culture and morale of employees, and to the employees themselves to learn more about the role of the We continually work to maintain and develop directors and how they contribute to the Groups success.
the framework for good governance.
BOARD EVALUATION At least every three years the Board and its committees CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION are evaluated by an external third party who interviews the directors and senior management to form an objective As I mention in my Statement on pages 4-5 of this Report, opinion on the performance of the Board and its members.
the rapid deepening of the commodity crisis in the last Every board and every individual can benefit and improve few months of 2015 and at the start of 2016 necessitated from the receipt of constructive feedback and this Board an urgent but measured response from the Company.
The and its directors are no exception.
The areas highlighted Board established a committee of non-executive directors for attention, and the actions we took to address the points to meet regularly with our chief executive and management raised in the 2015 external review, are described on page 77. to approve our strategic approach to the crisis.
This An internal review has been carried out for 2016. committee ensured that we achieved fast decision-making, and good alignment and cohesion between the Board and management, especially in the first six weeks of the year.
COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE Starting on page 78, each of the Board committee BOARD COMPOSITION chairmen presents a report on the activities of their committees during 2016.
Each of these committees fulfils As a result of the resignations of Ray ORourke and Judy a vital role in safeguarding the effective governance of the Dlamini in July and August 2016 respectively, the size of Group and in ensuring that matters of material importance the Board was reduced to 10 directors, but given the need are fully considered and debated.
The committee chairmen to tighten control of costs and to approach any search report to subsequent Board meetings on their deliberations, processes in a considered and appropriate way, we delayed highlighting any matters that the Board as a whole should be commencing the recruitment of additional non-executives aware of or which need further consideration.
This helps to until later in the year.
We are now nearing the end of those ensure that subjects raised at a committee meeting which processes and the new appointments to the Board will may have a bearing on another committees responsibilities ensure that we maintain a minimum of 25% women on the are brought to everyones attention.
Board and ethnic diversity in our broad mix of attributes.
We have now appointed a new finance director following This year we are presenting our remuneration policy to Ren Mdoris decision to retire at the end of 2017 after shareholders for approval, together with our remuneration 12 years in post.
Although the process for appointing new report which is the subject of an advisory only vote.
Details directors is led by the Nomination Committee, other Board of payments received by Board members under the existing members are given the opportunity to meet candidates policy, and the proposed new policy, are provided in the and recommend or otherwise their appointment.
The report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 84-109. work carried out by the Committee in 2016 is described on page 79.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE I am pleased that in 2016 your Company has complied in full with the UK Corporate Governance Code and I hope you find this report useful and informative.
Sir John Parker Chairman Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 65
