Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction Following Bill Holroyds retirement from the Board at the Companys AGM in July 2015, Rudi Lamprecht replaced him as a member of the Remuneration Committee and this Committee now meets the independence requirements set out in the Code.
It is intended that Geoff Cooper will be appointed as Chairman of the Nomination Committee following my retirement at the AGM.
Whilst technically the Nomination Committee and Audit Committee do not meet the Codes independence requirements, the Board are confident that both committees are well constituted and working effectively.
As was the case last year, all Directors wishing to remain in office will seek election and re-election at the AGM.
Following the significant development and growth of the business, this year the Board has given particular attention to the Groups risk framework.
We have assessed and defined our risk appetite having regard to our strategic aims.
We have continued to refine our risk management process with clearly defined roles and responsibilities and have gathered momentum in embedding our risk culture across Richard Rose Chairman all areas of our Group across all our territories.
Enhancements in our reporting processes help to support our assessment of the Groups longer-term viability as required by the Code.
I am pleased to report to you on the Boards activities and development in my last year as Chairman of AO.
Following the recommendation of our Audit Committee, during the year we initiated a formal competitive tender process for our external As Chairman one of my key responsibilities is to promote good auditor.
At our AGM in July 2016, the Board will propose that KPMG corporate governance: it is fundamental to the way we do business LLP will replace Deloitte LLP as the Groups statutory auditor.
Full and is therefore fundamental to our long-term success.
In the details of this process can be found on page 55. following pages we explain in greater detail our approach to governance how the Board and its Committees have fulfilled their During the year we have continued to build our UK business and governance responsibilities during the year to ensure that robust to grow into new territories where we can leverage our existing processes, practices and controls are embedded across the Group.
Our success will depend on our ability to deliver our four supporting strategic elements: customers, categories, During the year we continued to advance our governance structure countries and culture.
This in turn will be underpinned by our as we progress towards full compliance with The UK Corporate corporate governance framework, its systems and processes that Governance Code 2014 the Code and further strengthen the are strongly aligned with our values.
composition of our Board and its Committees.
In August 2015 Mark Higgins was appointed to the role of Chief Financial Officer having held It has been a privilege to lead the Board through a period of strong the position of Group Director of Finance for the previous four years.
growth and I feel that I am leaving the Group in capable hands.
I would Marks appointment strengthens the executive element of our Board like to thank my fellow Board members and the executive team for at an exciting time in the expansion of AO.
His thorough knowledge their support.
We have in place an outstanding team of people and of the business and existing relationships with key stakeholders will I am confident that through them, the Company and its culture will enhance the Boards effectiveness.
I wish AO all the best for the future.
In March 2016 I announced my intention to step down from the Board at the Companys AGM in July, after almost eight years as Chairman.
Richard Rose A sub-committee of the Nomination Committee was formed under Chairman the leadership of Brian McBride to conduct an open and transparent AO World Plc search for my successor.
On 8 June 2016 we announced that Geoff 8 June 2016 Cooper will be appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2016 and I am delighted that he is to succeed me as Chairman of both the Company and the Nomination Committee following the conclusion of our AGM on 21 July 2016.
Geoff has over 20 years of public company experience, and a strong track record of steering Boards through high growth strategies and overseas expansion.
He will be a great asset to the Board.
The following page set out how AO has applied the main principles of the Code and its compliance with the various provisions.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 42 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Introduction This Corporate Governance Statement explains key features of the Companys governance structure and how it complies with The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published in 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council.
This Statement also includes items required by the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
Compliance with the Code The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the reporting period, complied with the provisions of the Code save as noted below: Code provision Detail Explanation of non-compliance B.
1.2 Less than half of the Board, excluding As the Board has three experienced independent Non-Executive the Chairman, are independent Directors the Board is satisfied that no individual has dominated its Non-Executive Directors.
decision making, no undue reliance has been placed on particular individuals, there has been sufficient challenge of executive management in meetings of the Board and the Board has operated effectively.
The composition of the Board will be continually reviewed to ensure it remains effective.
2.1 The Nomination Committee does not Only Brian McBride is considered independent and while the comprise a majority of independent Chairman of the Company was considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
on appointment, the Code provides that thereafter the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
However, the Board considers that it has a strong independent non-executive component and that the continuity, experience and knowledge of Chris Hopkinson ensures that he made a significant contribution to the work of the Committee over the period under review.
Going forward the membership of this Committee will be amended following the resignation of Richard Rose and Geoff Cooper will take the Chair.
The composition of the Committee will be continually reviewed to ensure it remains effective.
C. 3.1 The Audit Committee does not comprise Chris Hopkinson is not considered to be independent for the three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers that the composition of the Audit Committee has a strong independent non-executive component and that the continuity, experience and knowledge of Chris Hopkinson ensured that he made a significant contribution to the work of the Committee and that it ran effectively over the period under review.
The composition of this Committee will be continually reviewed to ensure it remains effective.
As noted in his introduction, in March 2016 Richard Rose confirmed his intention to step down from his position as Chairman and as a Director of the Company following the appointment of a new Chairman.
The Listing Rules require that we state how we have applied the Main Principles set out in the Code.
This information is set out on our website at www.
com corporate and the required detail on specific Code provisions is set out in this Corporate Governance Statement.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43
