LEADERSHIP CHAIRMANS Q&A HIGH GOVERNANCE STANDARDS JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC, CHAIRMAN GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IS ABOUT ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES SO THAT WE CAN SHAPE AND PURSUE THE GROUPS STRATEGY TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE INTERESTS OF ALL STAKEHOLDERS.
What does good corporate At Board level: The Board comprises a strong How does the absence of Q Q governance mean for the mix of Chilean and international an executive as a director Francisca Castro joined the Board Company?
Directors with mining experience in affect the interaction between on 1 November 2016, following the Chile, and during 2016 all Directors Non-Executive Directors and Expanding on my statement retirement of Hugo Dryland.
made a concerted effort to visit the management?
above, our aim is to have clearly Ollie Oliveira succeeded William Groups operations.
defined roles and responsibilities, In practice, the interaction Hayes as Senior Independent to promote and maintain a culture At the management level, the between the Board and executive Director and Audit and Risk that encourages innovation and Group competes for talent with management is as you would expect Committee Chairman.
constructive challenge, to recruit and international and local businesses between Non-Executive Directors A number of changes were motivate the best talent available, in Chile.
This means that our and management in a typical UKmade to the Board Committees to commit to regular, candid and approach to remuneration needs listed company.
with effect from 1 January 2017, objective review processes and to take into account local market Our Group CEO and Group CFO are including the appointment of to involve shareholders and other conditions and locally available invited to attend all Board meetings, Vivianne Blanlot as Sustainability stakeholders in our deliberations.
our Group CEO is also invited to and Stakeholder Management In my letter of introduction to The Group CEO is not a director.
attend all Committee meetings and Committee Chairman.
the 2015 Corporate Governance This is consistent with practice there is regular formal and informal We also conducted our second Report, I explained that one of my in Chile where local law prohibits dialogue between management and  Board and responsibilities as Chairman is to CEOs of public companies from the Board.
Board Committee effectiveness promote good corporate governance being directors of those companies review during the year.
This exercise The Board considers that there are and as a Board, we continue Nevertheless, we voluntarily disclose has supported our view that considerable benefits associated to believe that good corporate his remuneration as if he were a significant improvements have been with having a Board comprising governance is fundamental to the member of the Board.
Further details made in recent years.
Further details exclusively Non-Executive Directors.
are set out in the 2016 Remuneration are set out on pages 82 to 83.
Not only does it provide a broad Report on pages 100 to 111.
This Corporate Governance Report range of perspectives, but also How do the Board and sets out the framework that we have Members of my family are also on encourages robust debate with the Q management of the Company worked hard to put in place and the Board and on the Executive Groups executive management.
differ from other UK listed that we believe is best suited to the Committee.
I am Non-Executive We remain satisfied that the companies?
Chairman of the Company, my current structure ensures rigorous brother Andrnico Luksic C is a NonAs noted in my introductory letter at and effective oversight of the What have been the main Executive Director and my nephew the beginning of this Annual Report, Q management team and do not changes in 2016?
Andrnico Luksic L is Vice President Chile holds 30% of global copper currently expect it to change.
We made a number of changes reserves, and the Groups operations, during the year.
corporate headquarters and all of How would you describe the Members of the Luksic family Q our senior management are based Groups culture?
are interested in the E. Abaroa At the executive level, Ivn Arriagada in Chile.
Understanding the country Foundation, which is a controlling succeeded Diego Hernndez as CEO As a Board, we actively promote the and, in particular, mining in Chile, is shareholder of the Company under now that Diego has completed his values that have been developed and essential for our Board.
Further details task of management restructuring.
These values of the Companys substantial reflect our industry, the nature of our shareholders are set out on page 70.
They include taking responsibility for safety 68 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and health, respecting one another skills and experience, as well and being innovative in our approach as gender.
All of the Directors CORPORATE VALUES and processes.
have confirmed that their other commitments do not prevent them It is the Boards responsibility to from devoting sufficient time to their ensure that our values continue to roles.
Further details are set out on RESPECT INNOVATION be relevant and aligned with the pages 72 to 74. expectations of our stakeholders.
During 2017, our human resources What drives the Boards team, under the supervision of Q SAFETY AND approach to succession EXCELLENCE the Remuneration and Talent planning?
HEALTH Management Committee, will engage With support from the Nomination further with our employees and and Governance Committee, other relevant stakeholders to ensure FORWARD the Board bases succession plans SUSTAINABILITY that our current values continue to THINKING on the need to maintain a broad and be embedded across the business complementary spectrum of skills, and that expected behaviours are personalities and competencies on consistent with those values.
details are set out on page 74.
To assist in this, the Board adopted UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Are you satisfied with the the skills matrix set out on page73 Q current Board composition?
This was used to assist Yes.
We have a diverse Board with the recruitment process that The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting comprising Directors with a broad led to the appointment of Francisca Council in September 2014 available on the Financial Reporting and complementary spectrum of Castro and also to update the Council website at www.
uk sets out the governance skills, personalities and competencies.
succession plans for key Board principles and provisions that applied to the Company during the andCommittee roles.
As at the date of this report the Board has 11 Directors, Will there be any further The Company complied with all of the detailed provisions of the Code comprising a Non-Executive Q changes to the Board and its in 2016.
Chairman and ten Non-Executive Committees in 2017?
Directors, five of whom We do not expect there to be any are independent.
The Directors biographies As always, I welcome questions or provide details of their Committee comments from shareholders at the memberships as well as other Annual General Meeting.
principal directorships and external roles, and demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the mining industry, JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC significant international business CHAIRMAN experience and a diversity of core ANTOFAGASTA.
