COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTORY LETTER REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE ENCOURAGING THE RIGHT BEHAVIOURS TIM BAKER, CHAIRMAN AS A COMMITTEE, OUR OBJECTIVES FOR 2017 ARE THE SAME AS FOR THE REST OF THE GROUP TO REDUCE COSTS SUSTAINABLY, PRODUCE PROFITABLE TONNES AND DELIVER POSITIVE FREE CASH FLOW THROUGHOUT THE CYCLE of the Groups stakeholders.
The whose pay arrangements were noted on page 68, the Board does Dear Shareholder, Committee reviews these metrics also reviewed during the year.
not currently have an Executive at the beginning of the year Director and does not anticipate The Committee also oversaw the What is the function of the and, if necessary, recommends a new appointment during the functional simplification programme Q Remuneration and Talent amendments before approving the 2017-2020 policy period.
metrics in the case of the LTIP programme centralised certain Further details of the minor or recommending the metrics to The Remuneration and Talent functions that support our mining differences between the 2014 and the Board for approval in the case Management Committee is operations including finance, 2017 policies are set out within the of the Annual Bonus Plan.
responsible for ensuring that the human resources, legal and external 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy Groups remuneration arrangements The Committee also reviews affairs and sustainability in the itself on page 112. promote effective execution of the succession plans for members of locations most appropriate for Did the Committee apply Groups strategy and enable the the Executive Committee, assessing supporting the Groups portfolio Q discretion to adjust recruitment, motivation, retention any changes in compensation of operations.
remuneration outcomes and development of talent.
policies across the Group that Finally, the Committee considered during the year?
may have a significant long-term The Committee is responsible the progress made in attaining the impact on labour costs, and No discretion has been applied to for preparing the Directors Groups strategic performance oversees compensation and talent remuneration outcomes for any Remuneration Policy and reviewing targets for the year and how this management strategies for the payments to Directors or the Group the remuneration of any Executive impacted executive remuneration.
Directors although there are As reported by the Chairman in his currently none and none are introduction to this years Annual What were the areas of focus What information about expected to be appointed.
The Report, good progress was made Q Q for the Committee in 2016?
executive pay is being Board comprises solely of Nonduring 2016 as demonstrated by the provided in this 2016 The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors as explained reduction in costs and increase in Remuneration Report?
principles and application of the by the Chairman on page 68. production as the full impact from 2014 Directors Remuneration The Committee also reviews and We feel it is important to embrace the new mining operations in our Policy, resulting in the development approves the remuneration of the the broad governance requirements portfolio flowed through.
As a result, of the 2017 Directors Remuneration Chairman and the Group CEO, of the UK regime, so voluntarily the Groups performance score Policy, which is set out on pages and determines the performancecontinue to report the Group for 2016 under the Annual Bonus 112 to 114.
Shareholders are related elements of the Group CEOs remuneration as if he Plan, which forms the basis for invited to vote on this policy at the CEOs compensation.
were a member of the Board.
We calculating 70% of the Group CEOs 2017 AGM.
also provide detailed information and Executive Committees annual Remuneration for members of the relating to the structure and bonus, was determined to be 99.7 At the management level, the Executive Committee, including components of the other Executive within a range of 90 Threshold Committee reviewed Diego awards granted under the long-term Committee members remuneration.
Hernndezs performance against incentive plan LTIP and annual As explained on page 68, the the performance criteria that bonus plan Annual Bonus Plan, How does the 2017 Directors Committee needs to consider the applied to the Strategic Awards is proposed to the Committee by Q Remuneration Policy differ market conditions and remuneration that he received in 2015.
These the Group CEO for approval.
structures available in Chile when criteria are set out on page 108 and Awards under both the LTIP and setting executive remuneration and primarily relate to the successful There is very little change between the Annual Bonus Plan are subject some elements of the Groups LTIP implementation of a succession plan the two policies.
The main to performance against financial may therefore differ slightly from allowing for the transition of the difference is that the 2017 policy and non-financial metrics and arrangements that would typically role of Group CEO to Ivn Arriagada does not include a recruitment take into account the interests be expected for a UK-based CEO policy for Executive Directors.
96 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Have any changes been made services and that it had no other In the event that candidates are Q to the fees payable to Nonconnection with the Company.
being considered for a role that Executive Directors in 2017?
Willis Towers Watsons fees for this reports into the Group CEO, the work were charged in accordance Committee Chairman participates The sole change is the introduction with normal billing practices and in the interview process to ensure of a separate fee for the Senior amounted to 93,848. that the candidate receives input Independent Director.
The on, and is capable of meeting, the The Committee also re-appointed Committee works with remuneration Boards expectations.
the Companys legal advisers, consultants to review NonClifford Chance LLP, to provide We encourage and review Executive Directors remuneration advice on the operation of progress in the development and against relevant markets and the Groups LTIP and other internal promotion of professional makes recommendations to compensation-related legal issues talent and the movement of the Board based on those results.
This re-appointment that talent between the Groups The remuneration of Nonwas also based on the Committees operations and closely monitor and Executive Directors is determined satisfaction with advice received in encourage the development of high by the Board as a whole and no previous years.
Non-Executive Director participates in the determination of his or her The Committee Chairman and the What are the key objectives own remuneration.
Committee as a whole regularly Q for the Committee in 2017?
Fee levels for the Non-Executive speak with these advisers without The Committees objectives for Directors have remained unchanged management present, to provide a 2017, as with the rest of the Group, since 2012 and will remain forum for open discussion and the are to reduce costs sustainably, unchanged in 2017 except for sharing of views and opinions on produce profitable tonnes and the Senior Independent Director compensation issues.
Additionally, deliver positive free cash flow fee of $20,000 pa.
This fee is in part of each Committee meeting is throughout the cycle.
In order accordance with the 2014 Directors held without management present to ensure that these objectives Remuneration Policy and provides to ensure that individual views are met, the Committee has recognition of the additional time or areas of concern are debated commissioned a thorough review commitment and responsibilities between the Committee members of the Groups variable remuneration attached to the role.
The Committee also received What arrangement does the As set out on page 74, the Q assistance from the Chairman, the Committee have in place with Committee will also oversee the Group CEO, the Vice President remuneration consultants?
activities of the culture committee, of Human Resources and the During the year, the Committee update the talent management Company Secretary during 2016, reappointed remuneration programme and oversee labour none of whom participated in consultants Willis Towers Watson union negotiations at Centinela discussions relating to their to provide advice to the Committee.
In past years Willis Towers Watson Shareholders are invited to has provided the Committee with What role does the vote on the 2017 Directors Q useful advice on such matters Committee play in talent Remuneration Policy and on as compensation benchmarking, management and succession the 2016 Remuneration Report new legislative requirements and planning?
and it is hoped that there will be market practice.
Talent management and succession continued support for the Groups Willis Towers Watson is a widelyplanning enable the Group to adapt pay arrangements.
recognised independent global to the challenges and changes professional services firm that is that arise over the copper price TIM BAKER a signatory to, and adheres to, the cycle.
Under the agreed succession CHAIRMAN OF THE Code of Conduct for Remuneration planning policy, when a key Committee Consultants.
management position becomes REMUNERATION AND TALENT This can be found at www.
vacant a replacement will first MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE .
be sought from within the Group, taking into account the succession The Committee is satisfied that the plan agreed for that position.
In advice provided by Willis Towers 2016, the appointment of Ivn Watson in 2016 was objective and Arriagada as Group CEO was an independent, that no conflict of internal appointment in accordance interest arose as a result of these with this policy.
CO. UK 97 REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE CONTINUED 2016 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE ATTENDANCE Introductory letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration NUMBER ATTENDED and Talent Management Committee 96 Tim Baker Chairman 9 9 Summary of 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy 99 1 William Hayes 8 9 2016 Remuneration Report 100 Ollie Oliveira 9 9 Statement of shareholder voting 100 1.
William Hayes was unable to attend one meeting due to aircraft delay.
This Implementation of the Directors Remuneration Policy in 2016 100 meeting was not included in the schedule of planned meetings at the beginning of the year.
Audited single figure remuneration table 101 Other regular attendees include the Group CEO, Vice President of Voluntary disclosures executive remuneration 102 Human Resources, Company Secretary and Secretary to the Board.
Effective 1 January 2017, William Hayes and Ollie Oliveira rotated Comparison of overall performance and remuneration 110 off the Committee and Vivianne Blanlot and Francisca Castro joined Relative change in remuneration 111 the Committee.
Mrs Blanlot and Mrs Castro received briefings on the UK remuneration Relative importance of remuneration spend 111 reporting regulations and Corporate Governance Code as part of the 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy 112 induction process following their appointments as Directors and will undertake further specific technical briefings in 2017.
The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
All Committee members are independent.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2016 COMPANY SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 500 Evaluated Chairman, Director and Committee fees, recommending to the Board that all fees remain unchanged except for a new 400 separate fee payable to the Senior Independent Director.
Reviewed the Companys 2015 Remuneration Report prior to its approval bythe Board and subsequent approval by shareholders at 300 the 2016 AGM.
EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION 200 Determined Ivn Arriagadas remuneration on his appointment to the role ofGroup CEO.
Evaluated the performance of the Group CEO and determined 100 variable compensation payable under the 2015 Annual Bonus Plan and Strategic Awards.
ANTOFAGASTA FTSE ALL SHARE EUROMONEY GLOBAL MINING Reviewed LTIP eligibility, participants and performance against set criteria and approved the vesting of awards.
Analysed Group performance against the 2016 Annual Bonus Plan The calculation metrics are set out on page 110. and performance metrics to apply to the 2017 Annual Bonus Plan.
Reviewed and approved the performance of the members of the Executive Committee under the 2015 Annual Bonus Plan.
GROUP CEO 2017 POTENTIAL GROUP PAY STRUCTURES TOTAL REMUNERATION Oversaw implementation of the functional simplification programme which involved the centralisation of support functions.
Reviewed compensation across the Group to ensure that it remains MAXIMUM 43% 43% 14% $1.366m competitive, motivating and appropriately aligned with the Groups performance and strategy.
TARGET 55% 27% 18% $1.074m TALENT MANAGEMENT AND SUCCESSION PLANNING Oversaw transition arrangements relating to the implementation of the succession plan for the Group CEO.
MINIMUM 100% $0.592m Reviewed the application of the Groups talent management and succession planning policies, including further development of the FIXED ELEMENTS ANNUAL VARIABLE ELEMENTS LONG-TERM VARIABLE ELEMENTS graduate trainee programme.
Figures are based on the assumptions set out in detail on page 109.
