Governance overview Committed to high standards of corporate governance Dear shareholders, I am pleased to introduce our corporate Directors Board evaluation governance report for 2016, which includes As already outlined in my Chairmans statement As well as ensuring that the Board includes areview of the corporate governance on page 4, we appointed three new Independent theappropriate balance between Executive arrangements in place, and reports from Non-Executive Directors during theyear.
There and Independent Non-Executive Directors, eachof our Board Committees.
was a rigorous process for the appointments we also recognise the need to be effective as described in the report of the Nomination as a Board.
We carried out a thorough Compliance with Corporate Committee on pages 52 to 53.
The new internal evaluation process during the year, Governance Code Directors bring with them significant financial which is described on page 51.
I can confirm that the Company is now and commercial experience and I am in full compliance with all provisions of the confident they will support the executive team External audit tender UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 in their implementation of the Groups strategy.
The report of the Audit Committee is set the Code.
This includes a Following the departure of Tom Hall, Nick detailed description of the formal audit As I reported in 2015, the Company was Hartman and Chip Perry, our Board is tender process that was carried out by listed immediately before the end of the last now at the minimum number of Directors the Committee during the year, leading financial year.
At that time, the Company required to comply with the Code.
We to our recommendation toshareholders did not comply with allofthe Codes believe that the Board is an appropriate that KPMG LLP should be appointed as provisions.
We committed to take the size for the Group, which is relatively lacking auditors at the next AGM, succeeding PwC.
necessary steps in order to fully comply in complexity.
However, we willkeep this within 12months of joining the FTSE 250 under continual review.
Annual General Meeting Index, and we have achieved that goal, Our Annual General Meeting will be although wewerenot in compliance with All Directors will offer themselves for election held at 10.00am on 22September2016 the provisions surrounding the composition orre-election by the shareholders at the at1 Tony Wilson Place, Fourth Floor, of the Board and its Committees for the forthcoming AGM.
We expect that whole of the year under review.
all Directors will be in attendance.
Ed Williams Chairman 9 June 2016 44 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Read more Report of the Nomination Committee 52 Report of the Audit Committee 54 Directors remuneration report 60 Board responsibilities Overall authority for the Monitoring delivery of The Board has adopted a formal schedule management and conduct business strategy and of matters reserved for its approval and has of the Groups business, objectives: responsibility delegated other specific responsibilities to strategy, objectives and for any necessary its Committees.
This schedule sets out key development.
aspects of the affairs of the Company which the Board does not delegate.
It is reviewed on an annual basis and is available via our Oversight of operations website at about-us.
including effectiveness Approval of budgets, Providing of systems of internal material contracts and Board activities in 2016 leadership for controls and risk major projects.
the long-term Appointment of three new Independent success of the Non-Executive Directors Group Investor relations strategy Approval of changes to the capital, corporate Simplification of the corporate structure Approval of the and or management dividend policy.
Approval of dividend policy and capital structure Approval of the structure of the Group.
financial statements, Appointment of new auditors Annual Report Approval of strategy, operating priorities and Accounts, and 2017 budget communications with shareholders and the Robust review of risks and approval wider investment ofviability statement community.
Internal Board evaluation Committees of the Board The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to carry out certain tasks on its behalf, allowing the Board to operate efficiently and to give the right level of attention and consideration to relevant matters.
A summary of the terms of reference of each Committee is set out in the table below and the full terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys website at about-us.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Members Ed Williams Chairman David Keens Chairman Jill Easterbrook Chairman David Keens Jill Easterbrook David Keens Jill Easterbrook Jeni Mundy Jeni Mundy Jeni Mundy Role and terms Reviews the structure, size and Reviews and reports to the Board on Responsible for all elements of ofreference composition of the Board and its the Groups financial reporting, internal the remuneration of the Executive Committees.
control, whistleblowing, internal Directors and the Chairman, Makes appropriate audit and the independence and and senior employees.
effectiveness of the external auditors.
Activities in2016 Selection process and Review of Annual Report and first Targets and structure of first PSP recommendation to the PLC reporting cycle.
awards and bonus scheme targets.
Board to appoint three new Appointment of internal auditors and Considering executive pay Non-Executive Directors.
approval of risk based programme.
environment and confirming Oversaw the first internal External audit tender process and current remuneration policy.
Design of first Company-wide Reviewed succession planning share schemes SIP and SAYE.
for the Board, Executive Directors and the Senior Management team.
Read more on page 52 Read more on page 54 Read more on page 60 45 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
