Chairmans governance letter 74 Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present this years directors and corporate governance report CULTURE IN THE ORGANISATION During the year I led the Board through a number of discussions on our culture and how it is manifested throughout the organisation.
We engaged our management to develop a series of metrics through which the culture within Aviva could be measured.
I believe that there is no single measure that can define an organisations culture, but that a broad dashboard can provide the Board with a holistic view of the culture in our business.
As we define these cultural metrics we can better understand the actions we, as a Board, can take to develop our culture to meet our strategic objectives.
REFRESHING THE BOARD During the year Claudia Arney and Keith Williams joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors and Scott Wheway stepped down on 31 December 2016 after nine years service on the Board.
I would like to EMBEDDING OUR VALUES thank Scott for his significant contribution to the Group over this time.
As we moved into 2017 we announced that Sir Malcolm The Board is accountable for setting Williamson and Bob Stein would not seek and leading our culture and, along with re-election at the 2017 Annual General the Group Executive, for ensuring the Meeting AGM and that Glyn Barker will correct tone from the top.
Our culture become Senior Independent Director.
is reected in our values: Care More: Following the announcement of the half Never Rest: Kill Complexity: and Create year results in August 2017, it is intended Legacy, and through certain initiatives INTRODUCTION that Glyn will step down as Chair of the and our remuneration structures, we The Board and I are pleased to report that Audit Committee but remain as a ensure these guide the organisation Aviva has made considerable progress in member, with Keith Williams assuming and are reected in our decision making.
the past three years as we have grown this role, subject to regulatory approval.
One example is the launch of Good Decisions.
Comprising a toolkit and operating profit, increased cash principles that help our colleagues use remittances and strengthened the balance EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION the values to make Good Decisions in sheet.
This performance has been delivered The Board focused extensively on, and the course of their everyday work.
The against a backdrop of significant political, invested in, executive succession and cultural shift achieved is measured market and regulatory change, in particular contingency planning during the year, and bi-annually via metrics including following the national election in America further detail is contained in the customer satisfaction, risk and control and the result of the European Union EU Nomination Committee report.
metrics, and through questions within referendum.
Change breeds uncertainty, our annual Voice of Aviva survey.
The and during this period, strong governance CHALLENGES DURING 2016 initiative ensures our values are at the has supported the organisation in During 2016 the Board and its committees heart of all decisions that the Board successfully anticipating and adapting to of course faced some challenges, with the and our colleagues make.
Governance Committee in particular examining the conduct implications Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance chairmans governance letter 75 Board and Group ExEcutivE divErsity We believe in having a diverse leadership team with regard toexperience, skills, following the suspension of dealings in the tenure, age, geographical expertise, professional background and gender.
The Board also thecharts below illustrate the diversity of our Board and senior management reviewed the steps taken following the following the Board changes effective as at the date of the annual General breaches of the Financial Conduct Meeting aGM, and are materially the same as at the date of this report.
Authoritys Principles with regard to client money.
This is an area we have invested in and will continue to monitor.
Board of dirEctors Group ExEcutivE GovErnancE structurE COMPOSITION To drive forward our True Customer Executive Composite strategy, we have combined the 3 11 1 Non-Executive UK Insurance businesses to provide a 8 single interface to our UK customers.
We have also appointed an Aviva plc nonGENDER executive director to the boards of Aviva 5 3 Male 7 Life Holdings UK Limited, Aviva Investors 3 Female 4 Holdings Limited and Aviva UK Digital Limited to strengthen the link between the EXPERIENCE & SKILLS Board and key operating companies.
4 3 Insurance 10 GovErnancE Banking & 8 3 6 accounting In November 2016, the Government issued 3 3 Actuarial 5 a green paper on corporate governance 8 3 Transformation 5 highlighting greater stakeholder 5 2 Law 3 involvement at Board level, and on 7 2 Government 2 executive pay.
The Board supports the 7 3 Customer 6 drive for greater stakeholder engagement 5 2 IT Digital 4 generally, and we have participated in the 8 Strategy 3 9 consultation process, and look forward to reviewing the resulting legislation.
INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE dirEct crEdit of dividEnds for 8 Europe 3 9 sharEholdErs 3 1 Asia Pacic 3 In November 2016 we sent a newsletter to 1 1 The Americas 4 shareholders relating to the forthcoming 1 1 Middle 2 change to our dividend payment East & Africa procedures, specifically that we will cease to pay cash dividends by cheque from TENURE November 2017.
Cash dividends will be 10 yrs 3 paid by direct bank credit as the Board 510 yrs 2 believes this directly aligns with our Digital 4 years 1 1 2 First strategy, will increase the speed and 3 years 2 1 3 security of payments, reduces printing and 1 2 years 2 postage costs and will minimise the impact 2 1 year 1 of Avivas activities on the environment.
1 1 year The Board recognise that a strong AGE governance framework is fundamental to the execution of our strategic objectives, 30-39 1 underpinned by a clear purpose and well 40-49 1 4 understood culture and values, and this 50-59 3 3 5 will remain a focus during 2017.
4 60 1 Executive Non-Executive Group Executive Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories We continue to progress towards greater diversity on the Board and throughout the Company.
The Board is supportive of the Lord Davies report and Hampton-Alexander sir adrian Montague cBE review target for women to represent 33% of boards by 2020: at the date of this report Chairman women represent 23% of the Board membership and 36% of the Group Executive.
8 March 2017 Following the Board changes effective from the 2017 AGM, women will represent 27% ofthe Board membership.
We actively support women advancing into senior roles, as evidenced by our participation in initiatives such as the Future Board Scheme and the 1 Subject to regulatory approval.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
