BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 64 Chairmans governance letter Contents Dear Shareholders, We welcomed the FRCs report and the During the course of the year, the Financial Chairmans governance letter 64 principles of stakeholder engagement, Reporting Council FRC published its report Governance highlights 65 directors duties and the importance of on Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards.
corporate integrity and responsible The report contained key observations Board governance 66 behaviourthat it outlined.
aboutthe value of culture in driving the Board of directors 68 rightbehaviours in the boardroom and at Towards the end of 2016, there was another Board information 70 alllevelsin the company.
We were pleased important governance publication, with the Governance disclosures 71 toseethat the report included a case study UK government publishing a wide-ranging onBAE Systems, illustrating the work we had Audit Committee report 72 Green Paper on Corporate Governance undertaken over a number of years to foster Reform.
Both documents quote in full the Corporate Responsibility high levels of personal trust between trade basic duty of a company director as detailed Committee report 76 unions and the Companys senior leadership.
inSection 172 of the Companies Act.
Nominations Committee report 78 As part of this years Board evaluation, we In summary, the duty is to promote the have asked Board members to reflect on the Remuneration Committee report 79 success of the company and, in doing so, questions asked in the FRCs report concerning haveregard to, amongst other matters, the corporate culture and provide their thoughts long-term consequences of any decisions, the on what they see within BAE Systems.
In 2017, interests of employees and other stakeholders, we will be using the output from this to guide and the desirability of maintaining high the Board in its further consideration of this standards of business conduct.
As required important governance matter.
bythe Companies Act, this Annual Report informs shareholders how the directors have performed this duty.
