66 Chairmans introduction Sound governance iscentral to achieving our objectives.
The Group is on course to deliver on our specific targets for this year.
Philip Aiken AM Chairman Leadership Effectiveness Accountability We ensure a collective We continually evaluate All decisions are discussed responsibility to challenge thebalance of skills and in the context of the risks strategy, performance and experience of the Board involved, with a robust and accountability to ensure toensure we have the dynamic process in place.
every decision is in the rightpeople in place with best interests of the the right induction Companys shareholders.
programme to enable effective leadership.
Read more about the Boards Read more about the Boards Read more about the Boards leadership p68 effectiveness p71 accountability p75 Remuneration Our remuneration policy aims to attract, retain and motivate the right calibre of people to drive the performance of the business.
We aim to operate this policy in a transparent manner.
Read more about the Boards remuneration policy p84 Compliance with the Code The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code is the standard applying to good corporate governance practice in the UK and the Listing Rules require listed companies to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions of the Code www.
The Company has complied fully with the requirements of the Code throughout the accounting period and to the date of this report.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 67 Diversity Leadership In seeking to recruit new Directors with The Board is collectively responsible for relevant experience, we ask search firms to setting and upholding high standards Present a fair, balanced and identify suitable female candidates.
We do of corporate governance including the understandable assessment not however believe in gender quotas, way the Group conducts its business, its approach to ethical matters, and the preferring to appoint individuals based of the Group.
definition of acceptable risk in delivering the on merit.
Diversity and inclusion are key Groups strategy and value creation for its components of our talent management shareholders.
It is committed to providing and development programmes, details effective leadership by ensuring that of which can be found on the website those governance principles are adhered balfourbeatty.
to throughout the Group, supported by an effective framework of systems and Accountability controls which define clearly delegations of We believe that Balfour Beattys authority and accountabilities.
processes and procedures have been further strengthened during the year with In my report last year I referred to the the development of a single reference appointment of a new leadership team library for all aspects of UK business at both Board and executive level.
practice and ever greater harmonisation The process of upgrading the executive of HR systems and of financial reporting leadership has continued through 2016.
It is platforms, enabling the Board to present however with great sadness that I have to a fair, balanced and understandable mention the untimely death on 1 July 2016 assessment of the Groups trading position of Graham Roberts who for many years and its prospects.
We continue to keep chaired the Audit and Risk Committee.
under review the matters reserved to The breadth of skills represented on the Board and the terms of reference of the Board however facilitated a smooth its Committees.
Copies can be found on transition of responsibility for that important the website.
As Chairman, it is my role to ensure that Remuneration the executive leadership and the Board The remuneration policy was last approved are able to discharge their responsibilities by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
effectively and, within that, I have At the AGM in May 2017, we will revert responsibility to ensure that a robust to shareholders with proposed changes.
succession plan is in place to cover Details of the revised remuneration policy all eventualities.
and how we intend to operate that policy in 2017 can be found in the Remuneration Maureen Kempston Darkes, who has report on pages 84 to 99. served as a Director since July 2012 and chair of the Safety and Sustainability Relations with shareholders Committee, will not be seeking re-election Our investor relations programme is of at the AGM this year.
We are actively critical importance to the Board through engaged in recruiting three Directors, this period of transformation for Balfour two of whom will replace Maureen Beatty.
The Board routinely receives and Graham.
reports from the investor relations team Each of the Directors brings skills and and analysts, together with feedback from experiences which enhance the quality any meetings which the Directors have of debate in the boardroom and in the with institutional investors.
As Chairman, case of the Directors provides additionally, I seek to meet, at least annually, with guidance and challenge to the executive representatives of the UK Shareholders Directors.
The Directors believe that Association.
We recognise the AGM as an the Board provides effective leadership.
important opportunity for private investors Details of the Directors are set out on to engage with the Board.
All resolutions pages68 and 69. will, however, be put to a poll rather than a show of hands to ensure that shareholders who are not able to attend the meeting have their votes fully taken into account.
Philip Aiken AM Chairman balfourbeatty.
