Governance overview Our shared values guide the choices we make every day For your Board, 2016 was a year of continued focus on execution and managing through a period of change.
Our Group Chief Executive Officer, Jes Staley, completed his first full year in the role and the momentum that has been achieved under his leadership over a relatively short period has been notable.
During this time, he has articulated a clear strategy for the future and put together an executive management team that is focused on delivering that strategy and generating sustainable returns for our shareholders.
A comprehensive corporate governance framework is vital in supporting executive management in its execution of strategy and in driving long-term sustainable performance.
It helps ensure that your investment in Barclays is protected, while at the same time recognising the interests of our wider stakeholders.
Supporting strategy execution The Boards agenda during 2016 was focused on overseeing and supporting executive management in delivering on Barclays strategic objectives.
You will read elsewhere in this report of the progress that has been made with the performance of our Core business, with the accelerated run-down of the Non-Core businesses and with the Summary sell-down of our holding in Barclays Africa.
As a Board, we also spent a considerable amount of our time on Structural Reform, in particular the A comprehensive corporate governance project to separate our retail banking operations into an independent framework is vital it helps ensure that legal entity within the Barclays Group.
This is a significant and farreaching change to Barclays operating structure.
In tracking the your investment in Barclays is protected, progress of implementation, your Board debated the risks and challenges while at the same time recognising the across the stakeholder spectrum, including the potential impacts on shareholders, employees, clients and customers.
Structural Reform will interests of our wider stakeholders.
also have a profound impact on the way in which the Barclays Board itself operates, especially in terms of how it interacts with the boards of the newly-established legal entities and with regard to talent management and succession planning for executive management and board appointments across the Barclays Group.
Personal accountability is a central tenet of our culture, enabling us to achieve the highest standards of performance and deliver value for our customers and clients.
It is also key to ensuring that trust finds its way back into banking and therefore underpins our long-term success.
It is during such periods of transformational change that leadership and good governance are more important than ever.
The challenge was heightened during 2016 by the result of the UKs referendum on its membership of the EU.
Your Board spent time assessing Barclays contingency plans and evaluating the potential impact of the UK exiting the EU on each of Barclays businesses.
This included the possible consequences for capital, operations and regulation, along with the impact for employees, clients and customers.
Of course, the precise terms of the UKs exit from the EU and the long-term effects are not yet known and will only become clear over time.
However, our strategy remains focused on building on our strengths as a transatlantic consumer, corporate and investment bank, anchored in the UK and the US.
38 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance in Action Sound corporate governance serves to support better decisionmaking and accountability throughout Barclays.
Greater detail about the work of your Board and its Committees may be found in our Directors report on pages 49 to 133 and online at home.
You will find a series of case studies describing the role of the Board and its principal Committees in some of the significant issues we considered and decisions we took during 2016, including: preparing for Structural Reform and the material impact it will have on the way in which Barclays operates in future statutory auditor transition, to facilitate a smooth handover of responsibilities contingency planning for the UKs EU Referendum, a significant external business risk event both before and after the vote measuring cultural progress, providing challenge and support to management in its delivery of conduct, culture and value change Culture, values and accountability Your Board As Chairman, an important part of my role is to promote the highest John McFarlane Group Chairman standards of corporate governance in Barclays and to ensure that this is Jes Staley Group Chief Executive: Executive Director supported by the right culture, values and behaviours from the top Mike Ashley Non-executive Director down.
The implementation in March 2016 of the UKs Senior Managers Tim Breedon Non-executive Director Regime introduced new regulatory standards for individual Mary Francis Non-executive Director accountability and conduct, which align closely with our established Crawford Gillies Non-executive Director purpose, culture and values.
Personal accountability is a central tenet of Sir Gerry Grimstone Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director our culture, enabling us to achieve the highest standards of performance Reuben Jeffery III Non-executive Director and deliver value for our customers and clients.
It is also key to ensuring Tushar Morzaria Group Finance Director: Executive Director that trust finds its way back into banking and therefore underpins our Dambisa Moyo Non-executive Director long-term success.
Diane fide Saint Victor Non-executive Director Diane Schueneman Non-executive Director Steve Thieke Non-executive Director Board diversity gender balance 20%21% 29% 31% John McFarlane Chairman 31.12.2013 31.12.2014 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 31.12.2013 31.12.2014 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 22 February 2017 3 Female 3 Female 4 Female 4 Female 12 Male 11 male 10 Male 9 Male For further information, see pages 39 to 133 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 39 Governance overview Our shared values guide the choices we make every day Accountability The Board is responsible for setting Barclays risk appetite, i. e. the risks it Summary is prepared to take in the context of achieving Barclays strategic objectives.
A snapshot of how Barclays complies with Barclays Enterprise Risk Management Framework is designed to identify the requirements of the UK Corporate and set minimum requirements in respect of the main risks to achieving Governance Code the Code is set out below.
the Barclays strategic objectives and to provide reasonable assurance that internal controls are effective.
The Board conducts robust assessments of the principal risks facing Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Barclays, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
It reports on this in the annual Leadership Viability statement opposite.
There is clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who runs the Board, and the Group Chief Executive, who runs the Groups The Directors also review the effectiveness of the Groups systems of business.
Individual roles on the Board and their responsibilities are set internal control and risk management.
out in Barclays Charter of Expectations.
The Board has put in place processes to support the presentation to The Senior Independent Director, Sir Gerry Grimstone, provides a shareholders of fair, balanced and understandable information.
sounding board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the other The Board Audit Committee, comprising independent non-executive Directors when necessary and is available to shareholders if they have Directors, oversees the effectiveness of Barclays internal and external concerns that have not been addressed through the normal channels.
The Board has set out Barclays culture, values and behaviours in Barclays Purpose and Values and The Barclays Way, which are Remuneration embedded throughout the Group.
The Board Remuneration Committee, comprising independent non-executive Directors, sets overarching Group remuneration policy Directors are expected to provide rigorous and constructive challenge on and approves the remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, the matters that, owing to their strategic, financial or reputational executive Directors and other senior executives.
implications or consequences, are considered significant to the Group.
The Board Remuneration Committee seeks the views of Barclays major Effectiveness shareholders on remuneration matters.
This engagement is meaningful The skills, knowledge and experience needed for an effective Board are and contributes directly to the decisions it makes.
recorded on a skills matrix, which is used by the Board Nominations Barclays reward framework is simple and transparent and is designed to Committee to inform Director recruitment, induction and on-going support and drive business strategy and long-term success.
To ensure alignment with shareholder interests, a significant part of The composition of principal Board Committees meets the performance-related pay is delivered through Barclays shares.
independence criteria of the Code and there is appropriate crossmembership to further promote effectiveness.
Unvested deferred remuneration is subject to malus.
Clawback also applies to any variable remuneration awarded to PRA Material Risk 10 of 13 Directors are independent non-executive Directors 77%, while Takers after 1 January 2015. the Chairman was independent on appointment.
At the end of 2016, there were four women Directors 31%, compared Engagement to our target of 33% by 2020.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director, together with other Board representatives and the Company Secretary, hold meetings with The Board Nominations Committee regularly considers Board and senior investors focusing on corporate governance matters.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director present quarterly results Appointments to the Board are made via a formal, rigorous and briefings and the Group Finance Director holds briefings for equity and transparent process, based on merit, taking into account the skills, debt sellside analysts.
experience and diversity needed on the Board in the context of Barclays strategic direction.
Regular engagement with Barclays brokers ensures that the Groups strategy and performance is being communicated effectively and All Directors are expected to commit sufficient time to fulfil their duties provides a better understanding of investor views.
In 2016, Directors attendance at scheduled Board meetings was 98% and across the scheduled Board Committee meetings was an The Board receives feedback on investor relations activity, along with average of 98%.
regular reports of changes in holdings of substantial shareholders and reports on share price movements.
The Board assesses its effectiveness and that of its Committees and the individual Directors annually in a process that is externally facilitated by A number of events are held throughout the year to maintain an open an independent third party.
dialogue with investors, of which the AGM is the most important.
Directors are subject to re-election each year by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Barclays Charter of Expectations sets out responsibilities for providing the Board with accurate, timely and high-quality information necessary for it to fulfil its duties.
40 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
