Letter from the chairman of our remuneration committee Dear shareholder The quality of our people is at the heart of Beazleys success and we want those who are among the best insurance professionals in the world.
We want to keep them through a shared culture and values as well as competitive remuneration which rewards sustained performance.
Remuneration policy and link to strategy Our remuneration policy is due for renewal at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
After reviewing it carefully in 2016 we concluded that it continues to support our business and is aligned to shareholder interests.
So we have not made significant changes since the overall package is appropriate and responsible.
The policy has two guiding principles alignment to shareholders interests and performance of the group.
The key features and basis of alignment are: Net Asset Value per share NAVps growth.
This is a key performance indicator, and is the measure used for our Long term Incentive Plan LTIP since it is aligned to shareholders interest.
For the maximum awards to vest, NAVps growth of 15% above the risk-free return has to be sustained for five years.
For a number of years we have operated an LTIP where performance is measured over five years as well as three.
This longer period aligns reward with the long term performance of the business.
The features which align remuneration with risk include a long time horizon, deferral of bonus into shares and personal shareholding requirements.
The committee gets an annual report from the chief risk officer on remuneration policy to ensure it is consistent with, and promotes, effective risk management.
Long term time horizons As part of the 2016 policy review, the committee looked at whether to introduce holding periods on the LTIPs and in particular whether to move from a five year to a three year performance period with a two year holding period.
We concluded that the five years was a strength of the existing arrangements and, with an additional clawback period taking reclaim provisions to seven years, there was alignment with longer term decision-taking.
Directors Remuneration Report reporting and operation of our policy The remuneration policy from 2017 and the 2016 annual remuneration report follow this letter.
Recognising UK regulations, the policy report will be subject to a binding vote at the AGM.
As noted above, there are no significant changes proposed to the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
The key change is that clawback provisions introduced in 2016 will now be part of the policy.
com Governance Financial statements Annual bonus framework and reporting Beazleys approach to the annual bonus reflects an emphasis on teamwork.
The bonus pool is based on profit before tax and return on equity ROE and is therefore aligned to shareholders interests.
A broad senior management group receives awards from the pool, reinforcing our collegiate culture.
As previous years show, bonuses are strongly aligned with ROE performance.
Allocations for the senior team are based on their individual performance during the year and not through a formula.
Over the years the company has disclosed more about the annual bonus performance framework and targets.
There is full disclosure of the group financial targets that have determined the annual bonus.
This year more is disclosed about individual objectives and achievements.
Solvency II This was the first year in which the remuneration requirements of Solvency II applied.
The committee reviewed remuneration across Beazley in 2015 and found that we were already significantly compliant with the Prudential Regulatory Authoritys PRAs guidance based on existing risk-aligned features.
There was more guidance from the PRA during 2016.
No substantive changes were needed as a result.
Salary increases The average executive director salary increase for 2017 was 2% below the average salary increase of the organisation as a whole.
Performance out-turns Beazley has reported a pre-tax profit of $293.2m and ROE of 18% for 2016.
Remuneration reported in the single total figure, reflects that performance and bonuses reflect performance year on year.
The second tranche of our 2012 five year LTIP is due to vest during 2017, reflecting an NAVps growth of 19.85% p. a.
Our LTIP policy maximum continues to be 200% of salary.
As last year, our approach is to award shares subject to performance conditions of 200% of salary for the CEO and 150% for other executive directors.
This year, however, we are proposing to award 175% to the head of speciality lines in recognition of his contribution to the group.
Our expectation is that his award level will revert to 150% next year.
Shareholders The committee is determined to follow best practice developments and considers indeed welcomes the views of shareholders.
It was encouraged by, and grateful for, a favourable vote of 97% on last years annual remuneration report, and 98% on our remuneration policy when it was approved in 2014.
Sir Andrew Likierman Remuneration committee chairman www.
