Governance Financial statements Letter from our chairman The boards role is to set the companys strategic aim, scrutinise managements performance and ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives.
The board and its committees met regularly during the year to set direction and risk appetite and provided oversight and control of management in the day-to-day running of the business.
We promote a culture of openness and debate at each meeting and seek to receive constructive challenge from the non-executive directors to help develop proposals on strategy and other matters.
As chairman, I seek to ensure this is achieved, that appropriate decisions are then reached, and that we empower management to then execute those decisions, with our on-going oversight and support.
Each of the strategic initiatives has been assigned a non-executive sponsor.
In May, we held our annual board strategy day and topics included were emerging risks and trends, two new strategic initiatives and the current mergers and acquisitions environment within the insurance industry.
As part of planning for board succession, the nomination committee and board looked at the balance of the board, including the skills and experience and there were a number of new appointments made in 2016.
During the year, the board welcomed John Sauerland, Christine LaSala and Bob Stuchbery with effect from 5 May, 1 July and 11 August 2016 respectively.
Details of the search processes are set out in the nomination committee report.
Rolf Tolle resigned from the board on 11 March 2016.
After having served more than six years on the board, Padraic OConnor and Vincent Sheridan resigned on 24 March and 31 December 2016 respectively.
The board would like to thank them all for their valuable contributions during their time on the board.
The company continues to be committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and the groups robust system of governance has been designed to establish, implement and maintain effective controls, internal reporting and communication of information across all levels within the group.
We believe these to be fundamental to the long term success of the company.
On 13 April 2016 the management of the group was re-located to the United Kingdom by means of a scheme of arrangement in order to simplify the management and decision making of the group.
This put in place a new parent company for the Beazley group, which is incorporated in England and Wales and resident for tax purposes in the UK.
Under the scheme of arrangement Beazley shareholders received one New Beazley share for every ordinary share held by them at the scheme record date.
These New Beazley shares were admitted to the premium segment of the Official List and began trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market on 13 April 2016.
The reorganisation has had no material effect on the strategy of the group.
We ensure directors continually update their skills through individual development plans and board training.
Talent development and succession planning are critical components of sustainable success and this starts at the very top, in the boardroom.
It is vital that we have on the board the right balance and diversity of expertise, skills, experience and perspectives, in addition to independence of thought and action.
The group believes in the importance of diversity for board and group effectiveness and has developed a diversity strategy to support our commitment to being an equal opportunities employer.
We achieved our goal of three female directors by the 2017 AGM, having gone from none to three within five years.
We have now set a new goal of a minimum of 35% of female senior managers within the organisation by 2020 and of 33% of female board members at group level by 2021.
We are committed to ensuring appointments are made on merit against selection criteria.
Further details of our policy and goals are set out in the nomination committee report.
The provision of timely, accurate and appropriate information to the board and committees is key to good governance.
We regularly review the board information to ensure it is in a form, and of a quality to enable the board to discharge its duties.
I am pleased to confirm the company has complied with the principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2016.
Details of the activities of the board and its committee also are set out on pages 72 to 75.
