GOVERNANCE Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance The Board believes that instilling high standards of corporate governance throughout all areas of our operations will help to deliver our strategy.
John Watson Chairman Dear Shareholder Main activities of the Board during Board effectiveness the year The Board believes that instilling high standards The Board comprises seven directors and of corporate governance throughout all areas the balance of non-executive and executive The Board met formally seven times and other of our operations will help to deliver our directors continues to work well.
There were times informally during the year, considering strategy of building shareholder value as well no changes to the Board during the year strategy, performance, risk, major land as benefiting other stakeholders.
As Chairman although a new company secretary was acquisitions, potential conflicts of interest and of the Board it is my responsibility to lead the appointed in February 2016 with the combined reports from senior employees and external Board, to shape and measure culture and to role of Group General Counsel and Company advisers at each Board meeting.
One meeting promote the highest standards of integrity, Secretary.
a year is usually devoted almost entirely to probity and corporate governance throughout the consideration of strategy.
However as this The areas highlighted for improvement in last the Group and particularly at Boardlevel.
years meeting was scheduled to take place years Board evaluation were: in July 2016, shortly after the EU Referendum more time and resources to be devoted to vote, it was decided to postpone the strategy Compliance with the UK Corporate the consideration of risk: meeting until later in the calendar year at Governance Code which stage the directors would have a clearer below Board level succession planning: and I am pleased to confirm that the Board insight into any shortto medium-term impact considers that it has complied with the detailed the decision to leave the EU may be having on further improvements to the nature and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance the business.
That delayed strategy meeting quality of information reported to the Board.
Code the Code published in September will be held in November 2016.
Throughout A Head of Risk has therefore been appointed 2014 throughout the year.
The Company is the year the directors independently visited required to comply with the 2016 revision of the who will help the Board to deliver and divisions and collectively visited at least two embed best practice on risk identification and Code from 1 August 2016 and I anticipate that regions.
In addition, the executive directors the Board will be able to report its compliance management throughout the Group.
As a and Group General Counsel and Company result, the risk register has been enhanced and with the 2016 version of the Code in next Secretary meet regularly with the Regional years report.
The Code is available, free of further developed during the year.
The recent Chairmen, divisional boards, and Head Office appointment of a Group Human Resources charge, from the Financial Reporting Council, senior management team, which gives an online at www.
uk or by telephoning Director will permit greater focus to be given appropriate level of oversight and direction to to the development of people below Board 02074922300. the business.
level, which will enable the Board to have more robust succession planning in place for those below Board level positions.
The format and content of Board papers and minutes have been revised during the year to provide greater consistency and more focussed content.
All of these areas continue to be monitored and improved.
42 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE Every year the Board conducts a Board Shareholder engagement evaluation pursuant to the requirements of the The Company encourages active dialogue Code.
This evaluation is externally facilitated with its private and institutional shareholders, every three years with internal evaluations both current and prospective, and the being carried out in the intervening years.
The directors communicate with both existing and next external Board evaluation will take place prospective institutional shareholders on a in the 2016 17 financial year.
This years Board regular basis and as requested.
evaluation, which was internally facilitated by me and the Group General Counsel and Shareholders are also kept up-to-date with Company Secretary, concluded that the Board our progress throughout the year through the and Committees were well run and continued Annual Report and announcements to the to be operating effectively.
The following areas Stock Exchange for the full year and half year were highlighted for further development results and four trading updates.
The whole andimprovement: Board is available for questions at the Annual General Meeting 'AGM' in December, to greater prominence and discussion in relation which institutional and private investors are to KPIs: invited to attend.
I am pleased to report that further evolution in relation to the at the last AGM over 92% of the votes cast management of risk: were cast in favour of the resolutions put to shareholders by the Board.
board papers agendas to be more forwardlooking and strategy focussed: The Chairman and senior independent non-executive director are always available greater clarity on the Groups culture: and to discuss issues with current and prospective shareholders and institutions, as required.
In succession planning at and below addition, the whole Board is regularly updated Boardlevel.
at Board meetings on shareholder and investor As a result the Board and the Group General views and activities by the Chief Executive and Counsel and Company Secretary will work the Group Finance Director.
with senior management to develop and Further information for shareholders is improve these areas during the year and available in the Other Information section of progress made will be reported on in next this report on pages 109 to 111 and also on our years report.
Diversity The Board is committed to making appointments on merit, against objective John Watson criteria and the Board strongly supports the Chairman principle of boardroom diversity in all its aspects.
I am pleased to report that during 17 October 2016 the year three women have been appointed to senior Head Office positions.
Our female employees make up 28% 2015 27% of our total workforce, while 14% 2015 14% of the Board and 13% 2015 14% of our senior management are women.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 43
