DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW Committed to the highest standards of corporate governance W e see robust corporate governance as fundamental to the effective management of our business and a principal contributor to the long-term success of the Group, creating trust and engagement between the Group and our stakeholders.
NEIL JANIN CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD NEIL JANIN DAVID MORRISON NON-EXECUTIVE SENIOR INDEPENDENT CHAIRMAN NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Dear Shareholders We continued our focus on Board succession planning and appointed Jonathan Muir as an advisor to the Board and member Our aim is to be at the forefront of best practice in corporate of the Audit Committee.
The strength of our corporate governance has helped We pursued our management succession plan by strengthening ensure the successful execution of our strategy and the achievement of management at each of our Investment Businesses.
It is the Board of Directors that imbeds the importance of We expanded our talent development programmes coaching, strong corporate governance throughout the Group by its leadership and mentoring and leadership to enhance the skills of executive culture success within the Group is only possible through transparency, management as well as create an internal talent pipeline of individuals honesty, fairness and collaboration.
Our culture creates an inclusive with the skills and capabilities to be become our future leaders.
environment that helps us attract, retain and develop the best talent.
We continued our focus on our systems of risk management and We are appreciative of managements unity as a cohesive team internal control throughout the Group, assisted by our Audit and Risk dedicated to delivery of the Boards strategy and best practise corporate Committees.
Our systems were optimised to manage identified risks governance.
Our culture is also reflected in the Groups commitment to e. g. we strengthened our IT security to add additional protection its customers and clients by acting ethically and responsibly in all of its against financial crime and cyber-security breaches.
We approved a new Remuneration Policy, now fully compliant with the Code, which will be subject to shareholder approval at our The Board leads through a framework described in this section of the upcoming AGM.
Report that provides for the development, review, implementation and Our Board and management continued to engage extensively with continued oversight of a system of controls, policies and procedures our investors, reflecting our commitment to transparent reporting that uphold our high governance standards.
This established framework and dialogue.
The Directors and management met with over 300 allows us to put the human and financial resources in place that we institutional investors in 2016. believe will optimise the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives We received detailed training on and revised our policies and to increase shareholder value.
procedures to address the implementation of the EU Market Abuse Regulation and changes introduced by EU Audit Reform, In this part of the Annual Report, we explain our governance policies and the latest edition of the Code and the Disclosure Guidance and practices and the measures that we have taken to ensure that the Group Transparency Rules.
continues to apply our high standards of corporate governance.
The key themes of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code form As corporate governance continues to evolve, we commit to challenge the framework for discussing our corporate governance structure.
ourselves to develop and maintain the highest standards possible for Given the importance of the work of the Nomination, Audit, Risk and the Group.
Remuneration Committees, each Committee presents a separate report, which can be found within this section.
Neil Janin David Morrison Non-Executive Senior Independent Among the key corporate governance actions taken during the year, we Chairman Non-Executive Director would like to highlight the following: 13 April 2017 We supported management to advance its Retail Banking and Investment Business strategy.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Throughout the year ended 31 December 2016, we applied the Main Principles and complied with the Provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code except as set out below.
Please note that the 2014 Remuneration Policy states that shares granted as discretionary compensation will vest over a two-year period starting in January of the second year following the work year earned.
This vesting period does not comply with Code provision D. 1.1, which requires a vesting period of three years.
To address this, the service agreement of our sole Executive Director has been varied.
We agreed to extend the vesting period for discretionary shares to three years vesting starts in January of the second year following the work year earned which complies with Code provision D. 1.1.
It was further agreed that the amended vesting period will apply to the 2016 work year, which is reflected in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 107 and in our new Directors' Remuneration Policy, which is set out on pages 100 to 106.
The Code and associated guidance is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available at www.
Set out on our website at http: bgeo.
com page id 62 our-governance is the Boards assessment of its application of the Main Principles of the Code, as required by LR 9.8.
74 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
