Chairmans Introduction to Governance How good governance underpins our ambition We recognise the need to lead on values and conduct in order to encourage the right behaviours throughout the Group.
Dear Shareholders, Highlights from 2015 16 This Corporate Governance Reportdescribes how the Group is Reviewed fi financial KPIs and included new non-fi financial governed and managed, and how Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC metrics of client satisfaction, net promoter score and applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code employee engagement.
The Board continues to ensure it upholds the Full review of key risks as part of internal capital adequacy highest governance standards.
We recognise the need to lead on assessment process.
values and conduct in order to encourage the right behaviours throughout the Group.
We believe that our culture and the quality Review of strategy with expanded executive management of our people are critical to the success of the Group.
You can team and approval of medium-term plan.
read more about how we have developed our culturein the Chief Extended discussionson different parts of the businessat Executives Review on pages 22 to 27. each meeting.
Reviewedresults of second annual employee Board changes engagement survey.
At the beginning of 2016 we strengthened the Executive Committee with the appointment of fi five senior leaders from ourbusiness.
This means our clients' voices are represented more directly at the Groups most senior executive governance committee.
As part of this reorganisation, Stephen Ford resignedfrom the Board.
Angela Knight, the Senior Independent Director, has served on the Board for nine years.
It has now been agreed that she will notstand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM in February 2017.
She has served the Board and the Company with great distinction and we are indebted to her.
Kath Cates, who was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director in December 2014 and is Chair of the Board Risk Committee, willtake overas the Senior Independent Director at the AGM.
50 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Length of tenure Boardeffectiveness 02 years 10% As part of our three year performance evaluation cycle, Iconducted an internal evaluation process of the Board 26 years 70% during the year through individual meetings with each Over 6 years 20% Director to obtain their views on what was working well andwhat could be improved.
The discussions werewide-ranging, covering how well the Board operates and approaches its work, the balance of skills and experience on the Board, the culture and dynamics of the Board and the effectiveness of Committee Board gender diversity composition.
We identified the following areas for focus next year: Male 63% A review of how the Board and its Committees interact, Female 37% to ensure that key issues are discussed appropriately at full Board meetings following more detailed discussion in the relevant Committee.
Succession planning for Non-Executive Directors will need to reflect the fact that they were all appointed within a relatively short time frame, with the exception of the current Senior Independent Director.
The Nomination Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors Committee will develop plans to address this in 2017.
Chairman 12% There will be an externally facilitated performance evaluation Executive 25% in 2017.
Read how Executive Directors' remuneration is linked to performance on pages 86 to 89.
Independent 63% Non-Executive Non-executive engagement Disclosure Committee An important part of my role is to ensure that our Non-Executive During 2016, the new EU Market Abuse Regulation 'MAR' was Directors offer both support andchallenge to the executive implemented to ensure the smooth functioning of the market for management team.
The Non-Executive Directors meet with financial securities by curbing behaviours that distort the price of thewider executive management team and regularly visit securities and harm investor confidence.
We have formalised the different offices.
way in which we meet our obligations  a Disclosure Committee to oversee the implementation of the Succession planning governance and procedures associated with the assessment, control and disclosure of inside information.
You can read more Succession planning is an important element of good about our Board and Committee structure on page 54. governance, ensuring that we are fully prepared for planned or sudden departures from key positions throughout the Group.
TheNomination Committee has reviewed the succession plans Simon Miller for the Board, the Executive Committee and other key roles within Chairman the organisation.
This review also provided visibility of the Groups talent pipeline and the leadership development programmes in 29 November 2016 place to ensure we are maximising the potential of our people.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee conducted a full review of our remuneration policy during 2016.
You can read more about this inthe Directors Remuneration Report on page 74.
The Directors' Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM.
