Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Chairmans introduction Index to key elements Directors Report Chairmans introduction 31 Board of Directors 32 Management Board 34 Leadership and effectiveness 35 Board activities in 2016 36 Board effectiveness 38 Audit Committee 42 Nominations Committee 46 Remuneration Report Annual Statement 48 Richard Burrows Summary Policy 49 Chairman Annual Report on Remuneration 56 We rigorously evaluate our own performance Dear Shareholder Compliance statement on an annual basis.
Our evaluation this year We were delighted that BAT was ranked first Throughout the year ended 31 December was externally facilitated by Independent out of all FTSE 100 companies for corporate 2016 and to the date of this document, Audit Limited.
They found that our Board governance in the Institute of Directors 2016 we applied the Main Principles of the functions very well and each of the Board Good Governance Report.
I believe that the April 2016 version of the UK Corporate committees is efficient and effective.
You will result reflects the focus that the Board and Governance Code the Code as it applies find the key outcomes from this years management give to corporate governance to the year ended 31 December 2016. evaluation in this section on pages 4041, and the openness, transparency and clarity of The Company was compliant with including our proposed actions for 2017. objectives which we all work hard to achieve.
We also review our ways of working In 2016, our Remuneration Committee The Board considers that this Annual on aregular basis and this year have continued its work on revising our Report, and notably this section, provides refreshed our committee structure and remuneration structure.
We consulted with the information shareholders need to composition.
We aligned Corporate and our shareholders and this resulted in our evaluate how we have complied with our Social Responsibility matters with our revised Remuneration Policy receiving a 90% current obligations under the Code.
regional corporate governance framework by vote of approval at our AGM in April 2016. making these a focus of our Board and Audit For ease of reference, we prepare a separate You will find details of our new policy in the Committee.
From 1 January 2017, meetings annual compliance report by reference to Remuneration Committee report on page 49. of the Audit and Remuneration Committees each provision of the Code.
This report is All our employees are required to understand will be held simultaneously, which will available at www.
and abide by our Standards of Business provide more time for in-depth discussions We comply with the Disclosure Guidance Conduct.
We will not tolerate improper atBoard meetings.
and Transparency Rules requirements for conduct in our business anywhere in the A successful completion of our proposed corporate governance statements by virtue world and take any allegations of misconduct acquisition of Reynolds American will add of the information included in this section, extremely seriously.
We are investigating, additional governance complexity, including together with the information contained in through external legal advisers, allegations of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance requirements.
the Other corporate disclosures section.
misconduct and are liaising with the Serious The Board remains committed to ensuring Fraud Office and other relevant authorities.
that its governance processes continue to This year we began a project to review and meet the toughest of global standards and further strengthen all aspects of the Groups that the Board itself has the capability and global compliance procedures and ensure diversity to respond to an evolving corporate that our Standards of Business Conduct governance landscape.
This important On behalf of the Board I confirm that we project will continue into 2017 and will believe that this Annual Report presents a fair, create an integrated centre of excellence to balanced and understandable assessment champion and guide the Groups Standards of of the Companys position, its performance Business Conduct programme.
and its prospects as well as its business model We have implemented key EU legislative and strategy.
corporate governance changes this year.
Richard Burrows Our Audit Committee revised our Auditor Chairman Independence Policy as required by the EU Audit Directive and Regulation which came into force in June 2016.
The Board also carried out a full review of our share dealing and inside information procedures as required by the Market Abuse Regulation which came into force in July 2016.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016 31
