GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW Setting a high standard of governance My role is to ensure the board operates effectively, is well managed, complies with the requirements of the Code and has the correct balance of diversity, skills and experience to ANDREW HIGGINSON execute the strategy set by the board.
Non-Executive Chairman Dear Shareholder The board is committed to meeting a high standard of corporate governance EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY % BOARD COMPOSITION and to comply with the principles in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued 57% by the UK Financial Reporting Council 2 in 2014 the Code.
My role is to ensure the board operates effectively, is well managed, complies with the requirements of the Code and has the correct balance of diversity, skills and 7 43% experience to execute the strategy set by the board.
This Corporate Governance statement explains the Male 1,158 Non-executive Directors key features of the Groups governance Female 1,555 Executive Directors structure and how it complies with the Code.
Statement of Compliance with SENIOR MANAGEMENT % COMMITTEE MEETINGS DURING 2016 the Code The Group applied the provisions of the Code and the UK Financial Conduct 46% 4 Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules throughout the year.
The following 4 paragraphs explain how the main 2 principles of the Code have been 2 applied.
The Directors' Remuneration Report contains further details on pages 54% Audit committee 64 to 79.
In addition, disclosures required Remuneration committee by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Male 24 Nomination and Governance committee rule 7.2.
6 regarding share capital can be Female 19 CSR committee found on page 78.
N Brown Group plc 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination and CSR committee Ron McMillan Chairman Fiona Laird Chairman governance committee Fiona Laird Chairman 1 1 Simon Patterson Ron McMillan Simon Patterson Chairman Angela Spindler Chief Executive 1 Fiona Laird Simon Patterson Andrew Higginson Theresa Casey Company Secretary Lesley Jones Lesley Jones Andrew York Ethical Trading 2 Ron McMillan Manager Fiona Laird Activities Activities Activities Activities During the year the committee Key activities for the committee Our activities this year have During the year we successfully considered, amongst other included support and oversight included a review of the Groups launched the Groups CSR Charter things, the Groups approach of the closure of the Groups succession planning, a board Taking Care of Our World, to and methodologies for defined benefit scheme to evaluation exercise and highlighting our passion for fair provisioning bad and doubtful new accruals and a review of consideration of the skills and fashion and introduced a new debt and inventory, the and recommendation to the experience required for a new three year CSR strategy aligned Groups exposure to corporate board in respect of the Groups nonexecutive director in light with the Groups sourcing and tax and VAT risks, treasury incentives schemes.
The of the current composition, commercial strategies.
In and cash management, the committee also reviewed the skills, expertise and experience Bangladesh we now directly treatment of exceptional remuneration packages of of the board.
employ skilled personnel, allowing items and the capitalisation of all executive directors and us to work collaboratively with software development costs.
suppliers, NGOs, and government bodies on the ground.
Outlook Outlook Outlook Outlook As transformation of the business As we move into delivery of Under the Chairmanship of Fiona Our focus for 2017 will be on model continues apace, the Fit 4 the Future, the Committee Laird, we will focus on identifying investing in technology and committee will focus on those will oversee the implementation and developing the Groups people to better enable us to areas which have been identified of the revised incentive future leaders and will review monitor and report on CSR through our risk assessment arrangements which aim to our executive and non-executive improvements.
We are also process as being key to the focus executives on delivering director induction and training refining our anti-slavery policy delivery of our strategy.
Together with our and will publish our anti-slavery include a review the Groups will also look to foster closer appointed consultants we will statement later this year and marketing investment to provide relationships with shareholders seek to appoint a suitably skilled continuing to identify ways in assurance that the significant and to provide oversight of the and experienced non-executive which we can improve the investment in this area delivers new gender pay gap reporting director.
performance of our supply improved targeted marketing to requirements.
chain to promote more all customer segments, a review sustainable ways of working.
of the delivery of the anticipated capabilities and benefits of Fit 4 the Future and oversight of the implementation of a more flexible and tailored financial 1.
BOARD ACTIVITIES IN 2015 16 Some of the key activities that the board has covered over the past year are: Strengthening the operating board through the appointment of Steve Johnson, an experienced financial services executive and the appointment of Craig Lovelace, our new CFO who has experience in dealing with multi-site multi-platform businesses: Reviewing the progress and costs of the Fit 4 the Future Project: Assessing the progress of the Groups international and High Street strategies: and Reviewing and improving communications with our investors and appointing a Director of Investor Relations.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 49
