116 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Director election and re-election The Chairman reviews the level of attendance and contribution by We appointed Mike Inglis and Tim Httges as directors after the directors at Board meetings, as well as their performance.
During last AGM, so they will retire at the 2016 AGM and be proposed for the year, he met with each director individually toreview their election as required by BTs Articles of Association.
Simon Lowth performance and considers that each of them continues to make appointed to the Board with effect from 12 July 2016 will also an effective contribution to the Board debate across a wide range be proposed for election.
All of the other directors apart from Tony of issues and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Chanmugam will be proposed for re-election by shareholders at Nick Rose reviewed and discussed the Chairmans performance theAGM in accordance with the Code.
during the year, taking into account feedback from other Board members.
Length of appointment of Chairman and non-executive directors The Senior Independent Director and the independent nonexecutive directors discussed Sir Michael Rakes contribution Sep 2007 Sir Michael Rake as Chairman, and succession in light of his nine years in the role.
Taking into account the Chairmans performance and his Jul 2009 Tony Ball role with the Chief Executive, who is relatively new to the role, Jan 2011 Jasmine Whitbread they concluded that Sir Michael should continue until at least September 2017.
The process to find a successor for the role Jan 2011 Nick Rose would begin in due course.
Nov 2011 Karen Richardson Board induction June 2014 lain Conn On appointment, directors take part in an induction programme Nov 2014 Isabel Hudson to increase their knowledge and understanding of the business.
Theyreceive information about BT including financial data and the Sep 2015 Mike Inglis key policies supporting BTs business practices.
We also give new Jan 2016 Tim Httges directors details on: the role of the Board, its terms of reference, membership of the main Board committees and the matters 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 reserved for decision by the Board, the Board committees or BTs Calendar year most senior executives.
Below is a summary of what Mike Ingliss induction programme involved.
We include details of all directors contracts letters of appointment in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Induction for Mike Inglis Attendance at Board meetings Following our announcement in August 2015 of Mike The following table shows each directors attendance at meetings Ingliss appointment to the Board, Mike has undertaken a of the Board during the financial year.
The Chairman meets comprehensive induction programme.
This has included: privately with the independent non-executive directors before meeting each line of business CEO to gain a good each scheduled Board meeting.
We encourage directors who are understanding of their business and challenges: unable to attend a meeting to give the Chairman their views and speaking to other senior executives across a range of comments on matters to be discussed, inadvance.
functions, such as finance, investor relations, media corporate officers, security and human resources: Board members a visit to BTs research laboratories at Adastral Park, BTs Meetings Newcastle and Sheffield Plusnet contact centres and Openreachs Ethernet team to see customer service operations Member Eligible to attend Attended first-hand: as well as the BT Sport studio: and Sir Michael Rake Chairman 9 9 reviewing BT policies on anti-bribery and corruption, gifts and Gavin Patterson 9 9 hospitality, charitable donations, corporate sponsorship and The Way We Work.
Tony Chanmugam 9 9 Mike will continue to gain an insight into a range of our areas Tony Ball 9 9 ofbusiness.
Iain Conn 9 8 The BT induction programme has been the most a Warren East 2 2 comprehensive of any company I have joined as a director.
The b Phil Hodkinson 8 8 BT team have a very structured induction programme but are also very open to requests I have made to see specific sites and c Tim Httges 1 1 people.
Our Chief Executive has a very transparent approach to Isabel Hudson 9 8 non-executive directors and gives the Board open access across d the organisation.
Mike Inglis 5 5 Mike Inglis Karen Richardson 9 9 Nick Rose 9 9 Jasmine Whitbread 9 9 a Warren retired from the Board on 31 May 2015. b Phil retired from the Board on 31 January 2016. c Tim was appointed to the Board from 29 January 2016. d Mike was appointed to the Board from 1 September 2015.
