64 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The new and extended major contracts Chairmans report secured in 2016 were positive and are I am pleased to present this report on the detailed within the strategic report.
work of the Capita Board during 2016, We enter 2017 with a strong pipeline formed of this section pages 6470 and of major sales opportunities and a the section headed Other statutory and reshaped and highly focused business regulatory information pages 7175. development team working both on Although 2016 has been a challenging these deals and on increasing the success year, the Board has continued to pursue of our divisional sales teams.
the highest standard of corporate See page 16 for more information.
governance with the intent to uphold the highest standards of business SIR IAN POWELL Board activities in 2016 practice.
However, I believe that there NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN The Board has a standing schedule to are a number of areas in which we can meet nine times a year and holds further continue to improve particularly in meetings as required, operating with respect of Capitas diversity agenda.
As an open culture in line with Capitas an organisation of 73,000 people and own values and behaviours.
We adopt a one of the UKs largest employers, we structured approach when setting Board must ensure that Capita has leading edge and committee meetings, which are people and incentivisation strategies to aligned with the financial calendar of our empower and encourage our people to Company.
We set an agenda to cover the have equal opportunities to maximise wide range of matters that are brought and full their potential.
to our attention, ensuring each is given As part of the challenges we have appropriate time and focus.
faced, governance must work within Some additional meetings took place the structure of a whole organisation, during the later part of 2016 to deal with without being overly cumbersome.
The the challenging trading conditions facing balance struck across Capita is greatly Capita, focusing on these conditions and assisted by the transparent culture.
The the strategic direction that needed to be changes to the operational structure taken to move forward in 2017. will further assist our work in this area and ensure oversight and transparency Divisional senior management consistently across the entire business.
Following a strategic review of the operations of our business, we Results for 2016 restructured the divisions into six In Andy Parkers report on pages 814 divisions from the previous 11.
We we have detailed the results for the continue to review the structures of our year.
It has been a challenging year for businesses and management and ensure the Group and the Board, and all Capita that these are in line with our strategy people were disappointed to have for organic growth.
These are detailed failed to deliver our expected profit further on pages 3444. for the year.
We have announced our intention to sell the majority of our Asset Services division and some other non-core businesses.
We are on track to complete these in 2017.
65 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The report was concluded following the In 2015 a full external evaluation of the Board evaluation in 2016 challenges of trading in the later part of Board was undertaken by Corinna Gillies Board evaluation is undertaken the year and subsequent announcements from the independent consultancy annually, with external evaluation every made to the shareholders.
The processes Illuminating Leaders, neither of which has three years.
for contract reporting and trading any other connection with the Company.
An internal evaluation was undertaken updates are being reviewed and will be As part of our Board evaluation process, in November 2016.
This was carried updated as necessary.
a meeting was held with the Nonout by questionnaire requiring written In terms of progress against actions Executives and the Senior Independent responses from all of the Directors.
To agreed from last year, these were: Director to discuss the performance ensure independence and objectivity, of Martin Bolland.
The views of the the questionnaire was conceived, i.
Develop risk topics further working Executive Directors were taken into administered and reviewed by the Group with the dedicated risk committees consideration by the Non-Executives as Company Secretary, the Chairman, had enabled more focus to be part of the evaluation.
Martin Bolland Martin Bolland, and myself.
The resultant undertaken in these areas and the was not present at either meeting.
A report was presented in full to the Board.
Director of Risk and Compliance had meeting of the Non-Executive Directors provided more in-depth reporting to The evaluation was completed whilst without Executive Directors was also both these committees and the Audit trading was challenging and the focus held.
Martin Bolland and I met with all and Risk Committee: for the recommendations from the members of the Board individually to evaluation are detailed below: ii.
E xtend topic of talent and succession receive feedback and discuss current and planning work continued from that long-term opportunities.
A review of the Board pack would undertaken in 2015 and reported be considered by a working party of Consideration of the Board balance is on last year.
As shown with the the Board: kept under review by the Chief Executive appointment of myself, Chris Sellers and myself.
Additio final strategy sessions and Matthew Lester, succession would be considered for the Nonplanning was in place in some areas.
Executive Directors: Further work would be undertaken in 2017 following the changes to the iii.
A n action plan would be formulated structure with dedicated time within by the Nomination Committee on the Nomination Committee for this Board Diversity.
BOARD EVALUATION PROCESS 2017 PROGRESS AGAINST COMPILATION 2016 ACTIONS RECOMMENDATIONS 2016 ACTIONS Internal evaluation in 1.
More in-depth risk November 2016 pack would be further reporting provided to considered by a working both risk committees Questionnaire agreed with 2.
E xtend topic of talent party of the Board and the Audit and Risk Sir Ian Powell, Martin and succession planning Committee Bolland and Group 2.
Additio final strategy Company Secretary sessions would be 2.
Good succession considered by the planning was in place in Written questionnaire Non-Executive some areas in 2016 with responses provided by all Directors further work to be Directors undertaken in 2017 3.
An action plan would be Report presented in full to following the changes formulated by the the Board to the organisational Nomination Committee structure on Board diversity 66 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Both the Group Risk and Compliance Risk and Compliance and Directors Director and the Group Internal Audit Internal Audit The Directors of the Company currently Director report to the Group Finance On pages 4655 of the strategic report in ofce are listed on pages 6263.
Director and independently to the we have described fully the roles of Risk All members of the Board, with the Audit and Risk Committee.
Both report and Compliance and Group Internal exception of Paul Bowtell, will stand respectively on the internal audit Audit together with the risks and internal for re-election Chris Sellers, Matthew programme and risk and compliance controls for Capita.
Lester and myself for election at the management activities and on the In order for the Board to ensure that the forthcoming AGM.
All of the Board internal audit programme across Capita.
strategic direction and growth of Capita have received a formal performance They have access to all members of the can continue successfully and with the evaluation, as described, which Board and hold regular meetings with appropriate risk oversight, a number demonstrated that each Director the Executive Directors and meet with of meetings are held throughout the continues to be effective and committed the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman year.
These include individual meetings to the role.
and myself at least quarterly.
In 2017 a between the Group Risk and Compliance review will be undertaken of the risk subThe following pages in this section Director and the Group Internal Audit committees with a focus on operational, consist of our corporate governance Director with the Chairman of the Audit cyber security and IT risks.
I hope that and Risk Committee, as well as normal you will nd these and the entire annual scheduled meetings.
Risks are identied report and accounts informative.
The and categorised in a number of ways Board will be happy to receive any and are prioritised and delegated in feedback you may have.
accordance with the risk ratings provided to the risk owner.
Sir Ian Powell Non-Executive Chairman 1 March 2017 RISK, COMPLIANCE AND INTERNAL AUDIT INDEPENDENT REPORT AUDIT AND RISK DIRECT REPORT GROUP RISK AND COMMITTEE COMPLIANCE CHAIR DIRECTOR GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT DIRECTOR CAPITA PLC CHAIRMAN Direct report Independent report
