Chairmans Letter Remuneration Committee Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present our second Directors Remuneration Report as a listed company, for the financial year ended 31 January 2016.
The Remuneration Committee continues to review all aspects of Executive Director remuneration at Card Factory against market practice for UK-listed companies and other retailers, and against the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code or the Code.
The Committee has developed a remuneration policy which it believes is appropriate and balanced, supports the Company strategy to deliver shareholder value, and aligns executive and shareholder interests.
Whilst the latest Code has moved away from saying that remuneration should attract, retain and motivate the best executives, preferring to say that executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote the long-term success of the company, this has always been the spirit of the Groups remuneration policy, and as such, no changes are being proposed to the policy this year.
I am pleased to welcome Karen Hubbard to the Board as CEO Designate, with effect from 22 February 2016.
In the recruitment process, we have been mindful of our policy to ensure the total remuneration of any new Director is in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders, without overpaying.
Karens remuneration arrangements are therefore in line with the Groups approved remuneration policy, comprising a salary of 445,000 pa with annual bonus and LTIP opportunities in line with the current CEOs levels.
Until Karen meets the shareholding requirement of 200% of salary, up to one third of any bonus earned will be mandatorily deferred in shares for three years.
She will receive an annual pension contribution of 15,000.
As part of her recruitment package, and in order that Karen was able to take up her position at a time to allow a suitable handover with the current CEO, the Committee approved a like-for-like buyout of her forfeited bonus, which was assessed to have a fair value of 130,000, with the time of payment matched to that of the forfeited award.
Richard Hayes will step down as CEO in mid-April and retire from the Board and leave the Group at the end of June, and will not receive an LTIP grant in 2016, although he will, to the extent that they vest based on performance, receive prorated LTIP awards at the normal vesting.
He will be eligible to receive the bonus due for the financial year 2015 6, but will not be eligible to receive any time prorated bonus for performance for the financial year 2016 17.
The Committee has exercised an available discretion for good leavers to disapply any holding period on vested LTIP awards, on the basis that his significant shareholding will continue to align his interests with that of other shareholders after he leaves the Board.
48 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other key remuneration decisions during the year have included: adjudicating salary increases for Executive Directors: awarding bonuses for the year ended 31 January 2016 at 79% of maximum, based on achievement of EBITDA targets and taking into account personal performance assessed based on balanced achievement against the four pillars of the agreed growth strategy : and approving the terms of 2016 grant under our all-employee Save as you earn SAYE' share scheme, the introduction of which was approved by our shareholders at last years AGM and is intended to promote share ownership among our wider employee population.
At our next AGM, which will be held on 24 May 2016, the second section of this report, the Annual Report on Remuneration, which outlines the implementation of our remuneration policy for the forthcoming financial year, will be subject to an advisory vote.
The first section, the Directors Remuneration Policy, is unchanged other than for minor changes to improve clarity, and will not be submitted for a vote, having been approved by shareholders at the Companys last AGM in 2015.
This policy is proving an appropriate framework for motivating our Executive Directors to achieve the business objectives of the Group and driving the creation of long-term shareholder value.
We will continue to review our remuneration arrangements to ensure they are in line with market best practice and we value all feedback from shareholders and hope to receive your support at the forthcoming AGM.
Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 April 2016 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49
