S St tr ra ate teg giic r c re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s Chairmans Letter Corporate Governance Geoff Cooper Chairman Dear Shareholder The Board recognises, understands and is committed Through the Nomination Committee whose report to high standards of governance and ensuring that it is set out on page 68 the Board has committed a provides effective leadership and sets the tone for the considerable amount of time during the year to Group.
We see good governance as an integral part of ensuring appropriate succession planning is either in the way the business is run and how we make decisions place or in development for the Executive Directors and that ensure the long-term progression and success of this has proved invaluable given the recently announced the Group.
appointment, following a comprehensive search and selection process, of Karen Hubbard to succeed Our activities during the year have been focused on Richard Hayes as the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
enabling the Group, through its senior management team, to continue to deliver on each element of its four The membership and roles of each of the Board pillars growth strategy which has driven its success Committees are detailed in separate sections of this in the period up to and since its IPO.
Weve ensured report together with the individual reports on their that achieving these ambitions is managed within a activities during the year.
framework of controls and processes where appropriate levels of risks can be taken to help the business succeed At our Annual General Meeting AGM' this year, and where the views of all relevant stakeholders are all of our Directors will be seeking reappointment.
As part of this, the Board recognises As previously announced, Richard Hayes will be the importance of striking the right balance between stepping down from his role as the Groups Chief hearing the collective view of the Executive Directors Executive Officer in mid-April 2016 and, following a and allowing independent input from the rest of handover period, will retire from the Group at the end the Board.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Richard for being such an effective leader of Although the recent changes to the UK Corporate the Group during his time here and wish him well for Governance Code have given the Board more to the future.
consider during the year, we are confident that the way in which the Group integrates governance into I look forward to welcoming shareholders at the its day-to-day management of the business, provides Companys AGM in May.
a solid foundation for it to evolve its processes and controls to address these changes.
Yours sincerely Geoff Cooper Chairman 4 April 2016 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 33
