Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder, The annual review of Board effectiveness is an important process for helping to identify key areas for future improvement or focus.
The 2016 review was led by myself and facilitated by Linstock Limited, an Your Board remains strongly independent corporate advisory firm.
The results from our 2016 evaluation are detailed on page 56, but the following areas were, inter alia, identified as committed to ensuring that being key future priorities for the Board: Support the transition to the new Group Finance Director Carillion maintains and Support the Executive Directors with their delivery against key operational and strategic targets continuously improves the Continue to oversee the development of the Groups strategy for future growth structures and processes required Maintain ongoing focus on Board succession and development of the senior management team.
to underpin the effective delivery More details of our compliance with the leadership and effectiveness provisions of the Code can be found on pages 53 to 57. of its growth strategy.
We believe The Board understands the importance of presenting a fair, balanced and that good governance is an understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects andof the importance of effective reporting, risk management and internal essential part of the way we control procedures.
Further details on the Groups reporting, internal control and risk management processes are provided in the Audit Committee report on pages 61 to 64. undertake our business on a dayWe also remain committed to regular and active dialogue with our to-day basis, while maintaining shareholders.
Keith Cochrane and I continue to make ourselves available to facilitate such dialogue and in addition we also consult with our effective risk management, shareholders on any significant changes to remuneration for the Executive Directors and other matters of a strategic nature.
Our 2016 Remuneration control and accountability.
report is set out on pages 65 to 81 and further details on our 2016 interaction with our shareholders are set out on page 57.
I am pleased to report that our commitment to business integrity, safety, strong governance and sustainability remains a key strength of our Compliance with the 2014 Code business.
In this section of the Annual Report we provide details of our During the year ended 31 December 2016, as detailed in our Corporate governance policies and practices, highlights of our governance activities Governance report on page 57 and in the Remuneration report on page65, and the status of our compliance with the principles of the UK Corporate the Company complied fully with the requirements of the UKCorporate Governance Code September 2014.
Full details of this Codecan be Your Company continues to be led by a strong and balanced Board, obtained from the Financial Reporting Councils website atwww.
whichis well qualified to challenge, motivate and support the business.
Biographical details of all of the Directors are provided on pages 50 and51.
The Board as a whole is responsible for the Groups overall strategy and has in place clearly defined structures for the allocation of responsibilities relating to the various elements of the Groups strategy.
Please see pages 10 and 11 for details of the Groups strategy and page 52 for an overview of the governance and management structure for the Group.
The Nominations Committee continues to review the composition of theBoard to ensure that we have the right balance of skills, experience, Philip Green diversity and independence in place to support the future development Chairman ofthe Group.
During 2016, the Committee led the process which resulted 1 March 2017 inthe appointment of Zafar Khan as Group Finance Director in succession to Richard Adam who retired on 31 December 2016.
Following our announcement that Ceri Powell will step down from the Board on 31March2017 due to international relocation to take up an appointment as ManagingDirector of Brunei Shell Petroleum, the Nominations Committee has commenced its search to secure a new Non-Executive Director to join the Board.
The 2016 report of theNominations Committee is set out on page 58.
Recognising the importance of right behaviours to long-term performance and our reputation, the Board remains committed to maintaining high standards of ethics and business integrity throughout the Group.
The 2016 report of the Business Integrity Committee is set out on page 59.
The Group also continues to put sustainability at the heart of all operational activity.
During 2016, we were delighted that our external reporting on sustainability was once again recognised when we were highly commended in the 2016 PwC Building Public Trust Award for the FTSE 250 Sustainability Reporting category for the fourth year in succession.
The Sustainability Committees report on its work during 2016 is set out on page 60.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49
