STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE u Corporate Governance Statement In March 2016, we also announced the promotion of Renana Teperberg and Matthew Eyre to the roles of Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Operations Officer respectively.
Renana and Matthew are long-standing members of the executive team, and their promotions underline again the Companys commitment to nurturing the internal pipeline of talent, and, in the case of Renana, the objective of cultivating and expanding opportunities for talented women to progress within Cineworld.
In addition, I am delighted to welcome Dean Moore to the Board.
Dean was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director in January 2017, following the stepping down of Martina King.
He also became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that Dean meets the requisite criteria to be considered independent, notwithstanding his brief interim employment of ten months from March 2016 by Cineworld, during which his mandate was to focus on the Chief Financial I am pleased to present the Corporate Officer succession planning process.
I believe that Deans Governance Statement for 2016, which extensive experience, both financial and commercial, will be a great asset to the Group, and his contribution will strengthen has been a busy year for the Board the rich combination of skills, culture and independence that anditsCommittees.
already exists on our Board.
The Remuneration Committee had a full agenda this year, updating the Companys Remuneration Policy and developing a new Long Term Incentive Plan, both of which are due to be voted on at this years AGM.
As part of the process the views of the investment community were taken into account to ensure that future targets for our Executive Directors are stretching and appropriate.
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee in this area are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 72.
The Audit Committee was also been fully occupied in 2016.
In the early part of 2016 it oversaw an audit tender process, Introduction which resulted in the reappointment of KPMG as our External Dear Shareholders Auditor.
Full details of the process and its outcome may be I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Statement found on pages 51 to 52.
The Committee has continued work for 2016, which has been a busy year for the Board and its on its key agenda items of oversight of the External Audit, and Committees.
a robust evaluation of risk management policies.
Information on these and other areas of focus for the Committee are As ever, the Board remains committed to ensuring that a high outlined in the Audit Committee Report on pages 51 to 52. standard of corporate governance is continuously maintained throughout the Group, and that we meet all the standards The Boards evaluation this year was carried out by an expected of a FTSE 250 company.
We believe that good external facilitator, as required by the Code.
The process was governance is the bedrock of the Groups strategy, and is constructive, and I am pleased to report that the evaluation essential to the way the business operates on a daily basis.
supported the view that the Board and its Committees are operating efficiently and productively.
During the year, significant initiatives undertaken include working on the appointment of the new Chief Financial Officer, Lastly, I would like to extend my thanks to Martina King, reviewing the Companys Remuneration Policy which is due whostepped down from the Board in January 2017.
Martinas to be voted on at our 2017 AGM, continuing to develop our contribution over her six years on the Board was of significant system of risk management and internal control as part of the value to the Group, the Board and me, in particular in her role culture of the Group, and undertaking an external audit tender as Remuneration Committee Chair.
process at the beginning of the year.
We announced the appointment of the new Chief Financial Anthony Bloom Officer, Nisan Cohen, at the beginning of 2017.
Nisan has been Chairman with the Group for over 15 years, latterly as Deputy Chief Financial Officer.
It has always been important to Cineworld to develop internal talent at all levels, and Nisans promotion to the Board is an endorsement of these principles.
The Nomination Committee provided substantial support in this process.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 37
