Governance and Directors Report CHAIRMANS LETTER PROMOTING SUCCESS We believe that strong leadership combined with a robust governance framework is vital to positive performance and to the continued success of your Company.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER GOVERNANCE IN ACTION On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Compass As a Board, we remain committed to maintaining the highest GroupPLCs annual Corporate Governance Report which aims standards of corporate governance.
We strongly believe that to provide shareholders and other stakeholders with an insight good governance is at the heart of, and is fundamental to, the into the Companys governance activities, performance effective management of the business, its long term andpriorities.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Last year, I wrote to you about the importance of succession planning.
This has, and will continue to be, an area of focus In my role as Chairman, it is my responsibility to ensure that we for the Board and the Nomination Committee.
We operate have an effective Board with a suitable range of skills, expertise in intrinsically dynamic markets and it is therefore vitally and experience.
Each year, we conduct a performance evaluation important to the Companys future success that it has a stable of the Board and its committees to ensure that they continue to and sustainable leadership which adapts and evolves in tandem be effective and that each of the directors shows a demonstrable with current and future businessneeds.
commitment to their role and has sufficient time to devote to their responsibilities at Compass, notwithstanding any We continuously plan for the future.
As I have set out in the othercommitments.
Nomination Committee Report, finding the right individuals for the Board takes time and the principal aim of our succession In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the plan is to ensure that we will always have access to a potential Code an externally facilitated evaluation must be conducted pool of talented individuals capable of leading the Company and every three years.
EquityCommunications Limited ECL delivering its strategic goals.
This year, in line with our plan, we conducted this years external evaluation, as they did in 2013. appointed Johnny Thomson as Group Finance Director and The purpose of ECLs evaluation was to consider progress Stefan Bomhard as a non-executive director.
In addition to in closing the gaps that were identified in the last external these appointments, in October 2015, Don Robert succeeded evaluation in 2013, reflect on progress made against last years Sir Ian Robinson as Senior Independent Director SID.
In internal assessment, evaluate how the Group had responded to December of the same year, Andy Martin stepped down as a changes in both the business and regulatory environment and director and Dominic Blakemore became Group Chief Operating to review the way the Board and its committeesoperate.
It is also planned that Susan Murray, who Information on this years external evaluation process, the completed her nine year tenure as a non-executive director in lessons learned from last years review and our areas of focus October, will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the in the coming year, can be found on page43.
Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Susan for her services to the Board, particularly for her excellent work as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and to wish her every success for the future.
Nelson Silva will succeed Susan as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee at the conclusion of the Companys AGM and I wish him well in his new role.
34 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I am pleased to report that it has been another year of positive progress and development in the Companys governance agenda THE COMPANYS ANNUAL and I am confident that the changes we have made to the Board GENERAL MEETING leave us better placed as we look to the Companys future.
In the coming year, we will continue to build on our work to date and Earlier this year, we held our AGM at Twickenham Stadium, to focus on our plan for the next three years.
I look forward to just one of the many sporting venues where we provide reporting on our progress next year.
I am pleased that the event was well attended byshareholders.
In the meantime, in the pages which follow we have set out our governance structures and processes and how we have applied During the question and answer session, shareholders the main principles and complied with the relevant provisions were able to ask the Board questions about the Companys of the Code.
We have sought to show how governance works in performance and its plans for the future and several practice by giving examples of the types of activity undertaken discussions were continued after the meeting when by the Board and its committees during the year.
I hope that you shareholders and directors met on a more informalbasis.
As ever, the Board and I were impressed by the quality and breadth of shareholder questions.
Onbehalf of my fellow directors, I would like to thank you for your interest in the Company andfor your continued support.
We look forward tomeeting you at the Companys next Paul Walsh AGM on Thursday 2February2017.
Chairman 22 November 2016 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 35
