Governance and Directors Report INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS The Board is assisted by four principal committees Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration, each UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE of which is responsible for reviewing and dealing with matters Responsibility for good governance lies with the within its own terms of reference.
At scheduled Board meetings, Board.
The Board is accountable to shareholders and the minutes of all committee meetings are circulated and a is committed to the highest standards of corporate summary of committee meetings discussed as appropriate.
governance as set out in the Code.
The Code can be All of the non-executive directors are members of all principal found on the Financial Reporting Council FRC website committees.
Individual reports from each principal committee at www.
This Corporate Governance Report, chairman can be found on pages 45 to 79.
The Company also has together with the Directors Remuneration Report set a number of executive management committees Disclosure, out on pages 58 to 79, describes how the Board has applied General Business and Executive Board.
These have been the main principles of good governance, as set out in the established in order to consider various issues and matters Code, during the year under review.
for recommendation to the Board and its principal committees COMPLIANCE STATEMENT or to deal with day to day matters within the authority granted It is the Boards view that for the year ended by the Board.
30 September 2016 the Company has been fully compliant This Directors Report also contains information required to with all of the principles set out in the Code applicable to be disclosed under the UKLAs Rules and under the Disclosure this reporting period.
The Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, Guidance and Transparency Rules DGTR.
To the extent is required to review whether the above statement reflects necessary, certain information is incorporated into this the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Report by reference.
Code specified for its review by the UK Listing Authority UKLA Rules and to report if it does not reflect such Our governance structure comprises the functions below compliance.
No such report has been made.
supported by the Groups standards, policies and internal controls, which are described in more detail over the following pages.
The directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 30 September 2016.
This Corporate Governance Report on pages 34 to 57 and the other statutory disclosures on pages 80 to 84 together with Chairman the Directors Responsibilities statement on page 86 make up the Directors Report.
HOW WE GOVERN THE COMPANY The Board leads the Groups governance framework: it is responsible for setting the strategic targets for the Group, monitoring progress made, approving proposed actions and Board for ensuring that the appropriate internal controls are in place and that they are operatingeffectively.
AUDIT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE SEE PAGE 45 SEE PAGE 58 CORPORATE NOMINATION RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE SEE PAGE 55 SEE PAGE 52 GENERAL DISCLOSURE BUSINESS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE BOARD 36 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board manages the business of the Company and may, BOARD OF DIRECTORS subject to the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, As at 30 September 2016, and as at the date of this Report, the borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge Board of Directors was made up of 12 members, comprising the the business, property and assets present and future, issue non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and seven debentures and other securities and give security, whether .
outright or as a collateral security, for any debt, liability or The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate obligation of the Company or of any third party.
and clearly defined, with the division of responsibilities set out The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its in writing and agreed by theBoard.
decision asfollows: All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Strategy and management Board and by the definition contained in the Code to be Board membership and other appointments independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Financial reporting and controls judgement.
The Board considers that each of the non-executive Internal controls directors brings their own senior level of experience, gained in Contracts each of their own fields, mainly in .
Capital structure The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and Communication the remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors Remuneration is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report, which is on Delegation of authority pages 58 to 79.
Corporate governance matters Other matters BOARD TENURE By way of an example, the Board must approve any changes to the Groups capital structure, operating and expenditure 4 budgets, capital investment of 50 million and above annually or any new contract with life of contract revenues of 250 million or more.
1 However, the Boards primary role remains to provide entrepreneurial leadership and to review the overall strategic development of the Group as awhole.
The Board has delegated day to day operational decisions 3 1 More than 5 years................................................ 42% to the Executive Board.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR BALANCE The work of the Board and its committees is described in this 3 section of the Governance Report.
1 THE BOARD SETS THE GROUPS VALUES AND STANDARDS AND ENSURES THAT IT ACTS ETHICALLY 1 Executive directors............................................. 33% 2 2 Non-executive directors........................... 59% AND THAT ITS OBLIGATIONS 3 Non-executive Chairman............................. 8% TO ITS SHAREHOLDERS ARE UNDERSTOOD AND MET.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 37
