Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Chairmans governance letter Strategy We have a clear strategy focused on three drivers: growth, innovation and efficiency.
One of the Boards key areas of responsibility is to oversee this strategy and the delivery of value to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
We will do this through regular reviews with senior management, by assessing our performance against objectives and by providing constructive challenge to ensure that we focus on achieving our objectives.
Further information about our strategy is included in the Strategic report on pages 24 to 25.
Culture In addition to rules and regulations, values and behaviours are a key part of governance.
While your Board under my leadership has a role to play in overseeing the Groups culture, I am very pleased to report that ConvaTec has a very strong values-driven culture which is already well embedded in all our HR processes and procedures and reflected in our extensive compliance programme and our risk management processes.
Further Dear Shareholder details of our compliance programme and our risk management processes are included in the Strategic report on page 49 and Following ConvaTecs successful Listing on the London Stock 28 to 33 respectively.
Exchange on 31 October 2016, I am delighted to present the Companys first Corporate governance report which explains The Board and diversity our current governance framework, sets out how we have We have established a strong Board with a wide range of applied the main principles and relevant provisions of the UK relevant skills and experience, different nationalities and a range Corporate Governance Code issued in 2016 by the Financial of ages.
However we recognise that the Board, in terms of Reporting Council the Code and highlights the areas which gender, is not diverse.
We will continue to review the Boards will be further developed in 2017 and beyond.
composition and we will endeavour to achieve appropriate levels of diversity while at all times ensuring that individuals are Governance appointed on merit and have the relevant skills and expertise to Your Board is committed to applying the highest standards of perform effectively.
corporate governance across the Group.
The governance practices in place prior to our Listing have been strengthened During 2017 we intend to put in place a Board Diversity Policy with the implementation of the structures and procedures and objectives for implementing this policy.
required of a publicly listed company and these will be further enhanced during the course of 2017 and beyond.
In this regard Dialogue with shareholders later this year I, together with our Senior Independent Director, We are committed to maintaining an active dialogue with our will arrange separately a consultation with shareholders to shareholders.
In addition to providing regular updates on our discuss a range of governance and related issues.
performance and significant developments we have also put in place a programme of engagement with shareholders to develop From our Listing to 31 December 2016 the Company has their understanding of our strategy and marketplace and to complied with the Code except in relation to a number of matters provide an opportunity for the Board to hear shareholders which are explained in the Corporate governance report on page views.
These areas of non-compliance arise for two reasons: Firstly two of our current shareholders, the companies We have engaged with a number of our largest shareholders in ultimately owned by Nordic Capital Nordic Capital and relation to our remuneration policy and our performance Avista Capital Partners Avista, together own the majority of measures and targets for our bonus and long term incentive the Companys shares.
Given their significant investment they arrangements.
Detailed information about these areas can be are entitled to appoint Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 66 to Details of this arrangement are explained on pages 84 and 85.
We also met with a large number of shareholders during and As a result currently the ratio of independent Non-Executive after the IPO process.
Following the announcement of our Directors on the Board, and certain of the Boards committees, preliminary results on 2 March 2017 we again met with a number does not comply with the requirements of the Code.
These of shareholders to provide an update on the execution of our areas of non-compliance will be addressed and I can confirm strategy.
We will repeat this process following the that over time we do intend to be fully compliant with the Code.
announcement of our half-year results.
In addition, our Executive Secondly we only recently became a public company and as a Directors will make themselves available for meetings with result, we have not had the opportunity to address a number shareholders who wish to have more detailed conversations.
of issues that would normally be addressed through the annual cycle of meetings and other activities.
For example, the We look forward to engaging with you in 2017 and beyond, Code requires me to regularly review and agree training and and I look forward to meeting individual shareholders at our development needs with each Director and, while we have forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
plans in place to do this as explained on page 58, such reviews have not yet taken place.
In addition we have not yet undertaken a review of the Boards effectiveness.
We recognise the importance of such a review and believe that the appropriate time to do this would be in the final quarter of 2017 following the anniversary of our Listing.
Thereafter we Sir Christopher Gent will arrange an externally facilitated evaluation of the Boards Chairman effectiveness once every three years.
17 March 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc53
