com CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO GOODGOVERNANCE DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, On behalf of the Board, Countryside is committed to the highest standards Iamvery pleased to present of corporate governance.
We believe that strong Countrysides first Corporate governance is a necessary component for delivering long-term performance to our shareholders.
This Governance Report since listing report sets out our approach to governance, and on the London Stock Exchange how our governance framework supports our wider strategy which is set out in the Strategic on 17 February 2016.
In 2016 our main areas of focus at Board level were: to ensure robust systems of corporate governance for a listed company were in place: to design a detailed succession plan, with the support of the Nomination Committee see page 51 : and to run a competitive tender for external auditors see page 47.
In accordance with the Code, we have set out areview of our compliance with the Code in theCorporate Governance Report see page 44, including an overview of the role and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees andthe ExecutiveCommittee.
PRINCIPAL AREAS OF BOARD FOCUS: November 2015 March 2016 Approval of 2015 year-end results February 2016 Intention to float and pricing Housebuilding Southern sitevisits 40 GOVERNANCE I am delighted to confirm that no significant issues were raised and the viewofthe Board is that the governance structure, together with the Board anditsCommittees, allcontinue to operate effectively, with a positive andopen culture.
David Howell Chairman BOARD AND COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE In 2016 a Board and Committee evaluation was carried out.
Given it is From the date of admission to the premium list of the London Stock theGroups first year since listing, the decision was made to conduct an Exchange LSE, Countryside has complied with all the provisions of internal review, led by me and assisted by the Company Secretary.
I am the Code, save that, excluding the independent Non-Executive Chairman, delighted to confirm that no significant issues were raised and the view the Board currently has only three Non-Executive Directors who it considers ofthe Board is that the governance structure, together with the Board to be independent.
This constitutes non-compliance with Code provision andits Committees, allcontinue to operate effectively, with a positive and B.
1.2, which recommends at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, open culture.
The review process is described in more detail on page 45. comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board believes that I am satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are standing the current composition of the Board, comprising two Executive Directors for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, continue to be and six Non-Executive Directors, brings to the Board a desirable range effective and show a high level of commitment to their roles.
of skills and experience in light of the Companys challenges and opportunities following admission to the LSE, while at the same time ensuring that INDEPENDENCE OF DIRECTORS noindividual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards The Board reviewed the independence of allNon-Executive Directors decision making.
excluding the Chairman at the Board meeting on 26 July 2016 and Oaktree currently have two Non-Executive Directors appointed to determined that they all continue to be independent, withtheexception theBoard, neither of whom are independent.
Oaktrees right to make ofFederico Canciani and Jamesvan Steenkiste, who both holdthe position such appointments are set out in the Relationship Agreement, as ofManaging Director at OaktreeCapital Management L. P. a substantial described onpage 45.
As and when Oaktree reduces its shareholding shareholder of the Company.
The Board is satisfied that I, as Chairman, inCountryside, their right to make appointments shall reduce to one wasindependent upon appointment.
Director below 25 per cent shareholding or no Directors below 10per cent.
Countryside shall be compliant with provision B.
1.2 as David Howell soon as Oaktree has only one Director appointed to the Board.
Chairman 28 November 2016 May 2016 June 2016 July 2016 September 2016 Review of Group strategy Succession planning Review of principal risks Partnerships North site visits Housebuilding Millgate site visits Selection of external auditors following Approval of 2017 budget Approval of half-year results competitive tender process Review of health and safety Review of the impact of EUReferendum COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC 41
