Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to promoting and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance which is fundamental to its ability to discharge its duties to Shareholders and other stakeholders, safeguard its reputation and support the successful long-term development of the Group.
Dear fellow Shareholder, In accordance with the requirement to Cranswick remains committed to sharing carry out an external Board evaluation every its vision with its Shareholders in an open Cranswicks approach to governance is three years and internal ones in between, and transparent way, by maintaining outlined in the following report, which sets an internal evaluation review was carried regular dialogue and through effective out how we integrate the key principles of out again this year.
Details of this Board communication.
As Chairman I believe the five sections of the 2014 UK Corporate evaluation process are set out on page 50. that continued engagement with our Governance Code the Code : leadership: Overall it was considered that during the year Shareholders is highly beneficial and helps effectiveness: accountability: remuneration: the Board and its Committees performed us to build a greater understanding of, and relations with Shareholders.
effectively with a positive and open culture.
and enables us to better respond to, our The Audit Committee monitors the financial investors views, opinions and concerns.
During the year the Group has embraced challenges the Group faces in a highly the new Code requirements in relation to competitive industry and the risk management enhanced risk reporting and statement of processes it develops enables the Group to viability as disclosed in the Principal Risks deliver its strategic objectives and to protect Martin Davey and Uncertainties section on page 30. its reputation.
The Nomination Committee Chairman focuses on making certain the Board has 24 May 2016 As the Group develops it is important that the right skill set and expertise and it gives the governance framework is kept under full consideration to succession planning at close review to ensure that Shareholders both Board and senior executive level.
The interests are safeguarded and to sustain Remuneration Committee reviews Executive the long-term success of the Company.
The Director remuneration, ensuring that Boards main role is to support the executive remuneration arrangements support the team, providing guidance and advice to Companys strategy and that the incentives complement and enhance the work the team continue to provide a strong alignment performs.
The Board consistently challenges between Shareholders, the Executive processes, plans and actions and exercises Directors and the wider senior executive a degree of rigorous enquiry and stimulates management team.
This serves to promote continual and sustained improvement across the business.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 45
