Directors Report | Remuneration Report longer term, these are subject to underpins.
We feel that moving to a constant Chairmans letter This means that the Committee must currency approach will better align Dear fellow shareholder, satisfy itself, each year that other measures performance and reward.
Furthermore, of corporate performance have not been since we are to adopt this approach over On behalf of both the Remuneration sacrificed to achieve a result against our the long term, the potential for any windfall Committee and your Board of Directors, primary incentive plan performance benefits, due to the insulation of executives itgives me great pleasure to present the measures.
For example these might be from the impact of negative currency Companys Remuneration Report for 2016. operational matters like the SHE record or movements will be offset in equal measure The Committee believes that our remuneration financials matters such as cash generation by years in which there are positive policies to date have contributed to our and ROCE.
Indeed the Committee will currency movements.
success by stressing theimportance of report on these deliberations each year.
Increases in the maximum bonus to 150% building for a sustainable long term future Fourth, to ensure that target setting year by of salary for the Group CEO and 125% and encouraging only those actions which year results in stretching ambitions and that ofsalary for the CFO are proposed.
result in profitable growth, irrespective the scale of reward on offer is proportionate Theseincreases reflect: ofthebasis of measurement.
and always linked to improved performance.
O ur performance requirements are If we have all learned one thing in 2016 it Therefore, for 2017, only incremental profit tougher under the refined bonus isthat circumstances change and we must performance is rewarded, and the targets, structure: be prepared to respond to those changes.
although revised, are designed to be So it is appropriate that at this Annual 2.
O ur Business has increased in size equally tough as in preceding years General Meeting we will be placing before andcomplexity since 2013 when bearing in mind the current environment.
you our revised Remuneration Policy wedesigned our current policy.
For instance, the achievement of what forconsideration.
Westructured our approach to doing webelieve is a stretching budget in 2017 business in 2014 so that we now operate would yield around 10 percentage points This letter, therefore, deals with two matters.
based on global market sectors.
This ofbonus less than it would have done First, a summary of the principles which have business model is now successfully in2016.
In addition, by changing the guided us in framing the new policy and its integrated and has facilitated our performance measurement basis to application for 2017 and, second, a summary continued organic growth and enabled constant currency, achieving the target of the remuneration outturn for 2016. the smooth integration of our targeted islikely to be much more challenging acquisitions which have broadened our The revised Remuneration Policy because if current exchange rates had business capabilities and potential: and and 2017 application been maintained then we would expect a further currency benefit to reported results.
In considering how the Companys 3. the Committees view of the very good Remuneration Policy should develop the performance of the senior team.
Fifth and finally, the Committees method Committee has been guided by five general ofoperation will be flexible and dynamic In reaching this conclusion, the Committee principles framed, in part, in consultation taking account of external changes noted that these changes will more closely with our principal shareholders.
inrecommended best practice as well align total potential pay levels with UK listed asbusiness performance.
This represents First, to achieve the closest possible companies of a comparable size and astrengthened approach to look at alignment with the Companys strategy.
However, the Committee does rewardsholistically and to treat each year Tothis end a new long term metric is not operate a policy of targeting specific asproviding different challenges.
Thus being introduced reflecting our focus on quartile positioning against market data although the new policy is designed to last innovation and our progress in developing all cases are treated on their individual until 2020 it may be the case that refinement New and Protected Products NPP.
to its operation is required before then.
This will take its place alongside Total All else remains as is with 33% of the Shareholder Return TSR and Earnings Per In further detail then: bonus subject to a three year deferral into Share EPS growth in the long term plan.
shares, together with recovery and Annual bonus Second, to raise the profile of both actual withholding provisions.
The structure and operation of the and relative performance and to ensure it is annualbonus system will remain similar Long Term Incentive Plan judged against true business competition.
tothe approach taken in prior years.
EPS and TSR performance metrics will The comparator group for long term Theprinciple requirement that no bonus remain, subject tochanges in weighting TSRperformance is now a bespoke group can be paid unless and until the previous toaccommodate an additional metric.
The bar years income is exceeded will remain In line with a key focus of our strategy, this istherefore raised.
third metric will assess New and Protected The income targets broadly being a Third, to ensure that the policy properly Product NPP sales over the performance measure of our success in achieving profit reflects the various concerns of period.
The NPP metric is a tried and growth adjusted for movements in working shareholders as to structure and metrics.
tested measure within Croda that will be capital over the year will henceforth be set Thus, although the policy rewards set as a hard target which will need to be and assessed each year on a constant improved profit performance each year, achieved for this part of the award to vest.
currency basis, removing the external and TSR, EPS and NPP growth in the In addition to the general financial underpin volatility of currency translation from Croda International Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report that applies to both the EPS and TSR been reduced for the defined benefit With regard to longer term incentives, 2016 performance conditions, this part of an element ofthe pension, the level of cash was the year in which grants made in 2014, award will also be subject to additional allowance provided above the cap was under Performance Share Plan PSP requirements for overall Group profitability increased to 25% of salary in line with reached the conclusion of the three year to be positive over the three year our remuneration policy maximum with performance period.
performance period plus absolute growth the objective being to continue to support As you will read in the following pages, in NPP to average at least 5% per annum, the provision of pensions in retirement.
these programmes required TSR and EPS for vesting to take place.
To provide consistency of approach, the criteria to be met in the years from 2014 to Committee also agreed at the same time A bespoke TSR peer group will be adopted, 2016 before any vesting could take place.
to set the cash in lieu of a Company replacing the current FTSE 350 peer group.
Over the performance period we delivered pension contribution at 25% of salary.
a three year TSR of 47% which placed our This peer group has been carefully chosen In conclusion, your Committee believes performance towards the top quartile to identify a more relevant benchmark of thechanges to the Remuneration Policy against our FTSE 350 comparator group, true global business performance that is will support our strategy by sharpening resulting in 85.9% of this part of the award less impacted by the volatilities of unrelated thefocus on innovation and promoting vesting.
However, in light of the demanding sectors in the FTSE.
The group has been agreater awareness of the competitive EPS targets set by the Committee, chosen to include the companies we are challenge.
As such, we commend the notwithstanding delivering 18% EPS competing against across our operations newpolicy to you.
growth over the performance period, we which, as a result, is intended to be highly narrowly missed the threshold EPS growth motivating to our senior team.
TSR will be Performance and reward for 2016 condition.
Thus, overall vesting will be at assessed on a local currency basis given When considering how our Business 42.95% of the total award.
Our consistently the multinational nature of our markets and performance in 2016 translates into reward, improving TSR performance is competitors.
Thus, vesting is determined we should first consider the annual bonus demonstrated on the TSR performance based on our performance relative to TSR and then the longer term incentive plan.
calculated on a basis that the Committee considers to reflect best the actual So far as the Committee is concerned, Turning first to the annual bonus, you will underlying performance of companies 2016 was a successful year and the recall that under the existing policy this is within the Group.
existing policy has proved its worth.
set on the basis of the Companys results However, events move on and it is timely expressed in reported currency i. e. the We propose that for 2017 awards be that the policy be revised and refreshed.
results include the impact of currency granted based on 40% TSR, 40% EPS and translation into Sterling.
This has been the 20% based on NPP, compared with 50% In the following pages you will find: basis on which reward has been calculated EPS and 50% TSR under the old policy.
full details of the proposed new for the past six years.
Your Committee Long term incentive awards will also Remuneration Policy: and believes that it is fair and just to maintain continue to be subject to a two year the reported currency basis for 2016 as an Annual Report on Remuneration holding period on vested shares, together this was the basis on which targets were inwhich we describe how we will be with recovery and withholding provisions set for 2016 and therefore retains applying the new policy in 2017 and of course reviewed in the light of the consistency over recent years.
Last year andwhat was earned in 2016 with financial underpins.
was the first in which the bonus scheme disclosure of our actual performance Salary paid out in part since 2012, reflecting the against the targets set.
Our policy is to increase salary for Executive tough nature of the targets set by the The intention is to present a full picture Directors in line with those of the UK Committee.
ofwhere we have been and where, workforce.
In 2017 the Executive Directors Income growth for 2016 was in excess withyour approval, we wish to go.
have declined to receive their full increase of10% over inflation which results in and will receive a 1% increase to salary On behalf of the Committee and the Board, a maximum bonus payment to those asopposed to the 2% average increase I thank you for your support.
participating in this scheme the across the UK.
Yours sincerely, performance underpinning this payment Pension is an achievement of which we should be During 2014 and 2015, the Company justly proud.
The results were excellent on reviewed pension provisions for UK the basis of reported currency and we also employees and decided to continue delivered robust growth on a constant toprovide a defined benefit arrangement currency basis.
It is on this latter basis that through a Career Average Revalued they will be judged in future years to align Steve Williams Earnings scheme and applied a salary better performance and reward and Chairman of the Remuneration capof 65,000 to pension benefits.
remove what, at the time of setting our Committee targets, appear to be a potential favourable At the same time, the Committee also tailwind for 2017 performance.
agreed to adjust the cash allowance it provided above the 65,000 defined benefit pension cap.
As the cap had Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57
