Directors Report Corporate Governance Chairmans Letter Dear fellow shareholder Effectiveness The actions agreed following the 2015 An effective governance framework is vital Board effectiveness review have progressed to ensuring that Croda remains successful well.
In 2016 the Board and Committee and sustainable.
Your Board is committed review was conducted using an online to high standards of corporate governance questionnaire, designed by Lintstock with and to complying with the provisions of the input from me and the Company Secretary.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
However, good governance is not Theevaluation was once again positive just about compliance with rules and and Iwas particularly pleased with the regulations: it is about culture, behaviours quality of support and challenge provided and how we do business, and the Board by the Non-Executives to the management has a vital role to play by ensuring that it sets team and the atmosphere of constructive the tone for the rest of the organisation.
debate around the boardroom table.
Further details on the evaluation can be The Board is accountable to Crodas found on page 41.
The evaluation enabled shareholders for good governance and the Board to reflect on areas for focus and thisreport, together with the Directors Good governance is not improvement, one of which related to our Remuneration Report set out on pages 55 Board agendas.
For 2017 we will be taking just about compliance with to 75, describes how the Codes main action to strike a balance between principles of governance have been rules and regulations: it is reporting from the CEO, finance, business applied by the Company.
This report about culture, behaviours units, technology, operations, legal includes practical insights into how our compliance, HR, and the Board Committees, governance framework underpins and and how we do business, approvals and governance matters, whilst supports our Business and the decisions and the Board has a vital ensuring that we devote more time to the we make every day.
I am pleased to report role to play by ensuring it major strategic issues such as generating that the Company has complied with the continued organic growth, investing in Code for the period under review.
sets the tone for the rest differentiated products, open innovation, ofthe organisation.
intellectual property, sustainability and Leadership market dynamics.
Dr. Keith Layden, Chief Technology Officer Anita Frew and President, Life Sciences, will retire The Board spends a considerable amount Chairman from the Company after 32 years of of time meeting with employees and visiting service.
Dr. Nick Challoner, President, Asia, our offices and manufacturing sites around will also become President of Life Sciences the world.
This improves the Directors and lead Crodas Global Research and understanding of our operations and Technology function.
These changes theCroda culture and these connections willtake effect from 1 May 2017. enhance the quality of decision making inthe boardroom.
On page 41 we set out Keith is one of the principal architects for more details of the Boards programme Croda becoming the successful business ofactivities outside the boardroom.
Under his direction, Croda has significantly expanded its R&D The Board is committed to greater diversity capability and introduced impactful new within our Business.
A broader range of technologies to the market.
I would like ideas, skills, knowledge, experience and tothank Keith for his long service and ethnicity, and more balanced gender exceptional contribution to Croda and representation throughout our organisation, Iamdelighted that he has accepted is important to our continuing long term Leadership 38 theBoards invitation to continue as a success.
25% of the members of the Effectiveness 41 Non-Executive Director to help guide Board are female and our Board diversity Crodas highly successful innovation policy includes a commitment to maintaining Accountability 44 agenda furtherforward.
this level of female representation on Relations with Shareholders 45 theBoard, whilst ensuring that diversity The Nomination Committee undertakes an inits broadest sense remains a central Audit Committee 47 assessment of the skills and experiences feature.
A copy of the policy is available of the Board to ensure we have the right Nomination Committee 52 atwww.
This enables us Other Committees 54 to create defined succession plans for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Report 55 Other Disclosures 76 Croda International Plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors Report Within our Business we continue to Relations with shareholders Looking ahead to 2017 focuson creating connections between As Chairman, I am responsible for effective our employees, whether through training During the year the Board will: communication with shareholders and for on cultural awareness and diversity, ensuring that the Board understands the Spend time looking at major managing remote teams or ensuring views of major shareholders.
During the strategic issues including leadership development programmes year I have met with several shareholders innovation, sustainability and comprise employees from different as well as speaking with many shareholders marketdynamics cultures, backgrounds and nationalities.
Our shareholders support our Regularly review our innovation We believe that creating these connections strategy and are very comfortable with our pipeline leads to employees feeling included and approach to corporate governance.
valued andwill safeguard our diverse Continue to monitor the culture workforce.
The global review of talent and behaviours within the undertaken by the Executive Committee organisation, taking account of and the Board aims to ensure we will have these when making decisions a diverse and global representation for the Focus on Board succession Groups futureleaders.
planning and the optimum Anita Frew Creating these connections between our balance and composition Chairman employees goes to the heart of the Croda oftheBoard.
We recognise the value of culture and the Board has spent time working onthe development of our Culture Plan, linking our culture to our Business strategy in order to deliver business results.
Croda is not unique in having a strong culture, but we believe our culture is unique.
We value openness and fairness.
Our employees are committed and loyal and take pride in their work and are proud to work for Croda.
There is a trust and a real sense of family and community between Croda employees and, importantly, a belief that coming to work should be fun.
Our strong global networks provide us with agility and the empowerment given to employees leads tothe creativity and innovation for which Croda is renowned.
Outside the boardroom In May 2016, the Board visited our manufacturing site in Ditton, UK.
As well as visiting the plant Accountability areas, the Board spent time in the laboratories with our research and development, and process The Board spent a considerable amount innovation teams where they received demonstrations of the sites key technologies and gained oftime discussing the areas of risk a fuller understanding of the applications in which our products are used by our customers.
assessment, risk management and internal control systems including a review of control failings, and assessing the long term prospects of the Company.
The Remuneration Report on pages 55to75 sets out details of the time spent inreviewing our Remuneration Policy.
Wehave ensured that there is a clear link between remuneration objectives for our executive team and the delivery of our strategy and will be seeking support from shareholders for the new Policy at our Annual General Meeting AGM in April.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37
