Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 41 Dignity plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Governance Chairmans introduction to governance Good governance is fundamental to the ongoing success of the Group.
It is the responsibility of the Board to lead by example.
Peter Hindley, Chairman Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Dear Shareholder, It is the Boards opinion the Group has been fully compliant On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Groups with the Code throughout the 53 week period ending on Corporate Governance Report for 2016.
Our report is 30 December 2016 and remained fully compliant at the date intended to provide shareholders with a clear and the Annual Report for 2016 was published, with the exception comprehensive explanation of what good governance means of a short period between Martin Pexton having stepped within Dignity, what it means to us as the Board of Directors, down from the Board on 3 February 2017 until the how it is applied and how it guides our decision making.
appointment of M ary McNamara on 1March 2017 where the Group did not fully comply with provision B.
1.2 of the We are reporting in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code which requires that least half the board, excluding the Code the Code and I am pleased to advise that Dignity chairman, should comprise non-executive directors.
has complied with all relevant provisions throughout the period ending 30 December 2016.
How we have achieved Directors Report this is covered in this section of our Annual Report and The Directors present their report for Dignity plc for the comprehensively explains our approach to and the period ending 30 December 2016. application of good Corporate Governance.
Corporate Governance Separate reports are included from each of the Board The Group is committed to high standards of corporate Committees: we feel this gives the most comprehensive view governance, details of which are given in this report and the of their activities.
separate reports from the Chairman of: Good governance is crucial at all levels within the Group and The Audit Committee: it is the responsibility of the Board both to lead by example The Nomination Committee: and and set the tone.
It means ensuring that an effective internal framework of systems and controls exists which includes The Remuneration Committee.
clearly defined authorities and accountability which promotes success, whilst allowing risks to be managed to appropriate The various sections of this report contain summarised levels.
To do this the Board must make appropriate information from Dignity plcs Articles of Association judgements whilst giving consideration to the views of our the Articles and the Companies Act 2006 which is the shareholders and other stakeholders.
applicable English law concerning companies.
The relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be I would encourage you to attend our Annual General Meeting consulted if more detailed information is needed.
on 8 June 2017 and take the opportunity to meet the management team at this important event.
We will take both formal questions at that meeting and be available for more informal conversation and questions afterwards.
Peter Hindley, Chairman 8 March 2017 Links See Board of Directors: p. 40 and p. 41 See Directors statement on corporate governance: p. 42 to p. 45 See Audit Committee report: p. 46 to p. 48 Dignity is committed to maintaining the See Nomination Committee report: p. 49 highest standards in corporate governance and ensuring values and behaviours are See Report on Directors remuneration: p. 50 to p. 63 consistent across the business.
See Directors report: p. 64 and p. 65 PDF Page: 1-49 Dignity.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
