Chairmans introduction Corporate Governance The Board recognises the importance of succession planning and understands the need to have leaders who reflect the Groups culture and values.
Mike Biggs Chairman considered an important matter by the Board and its Dear shareholders and other Nomination Committee.
The Board has female representation stakeholders of 30% and the Board remains committed to improving this position when the appropriate opportunity arises.
Our commitment to good corporate governance During 2016, the Nomination Committee reviewed the Boards On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate expertise and experience and engaged an external consultant Governance report for the year ended 31 December 2016. in the search for new candidates.
The Boards Nomination A major focus of the Board and mine as Chairman continues Committee oversaw the selection and appointment of Richard to be on maintaining high standards of corporate governance, Ward as Senior Independent Director.
Following Priscilla which we seek to achieve through the Groups robust Vacassins retirement from the Board in March 2016, a number governance arrangements.
of changes were made to the chairmanship and membership of the Boards Committees.
I am pleased to report that Danuta Gray The Corporate Governance report sets out the Direct Line was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Mike HollidayGroup framework, which we believe enables effective decision Williams was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 February making and management of the risks in the markets in which 2017.
Having previously held executive and non-executive roles we operate.
Matters Reserved for the Board and the role of in a number of sectors, including financial services, Danuta brings the Boards Committees are core elements of this framework.
vast experience to the Board whilst Mikes appointment reflects The Corporate Governance and Committee reports highlight the importance of the Personal Lines business to the Group.
the areas of focus, challenge and supervision for the Board The Nomination Committee report on page 76 contains further and its Committees during 2016. information on the Boards approach to succession planning and Board and Committee changes.
Succession planning and Board changes Succession planning has been an area of focus for the Board Effectiveness and Evaluation in 2016.
The Board recognises the importance of succession As Chairman, my objective is to develop and lead an effective planning and understands the need to have leaders who reflect Board for the benefit of our shareholders.
In 2014 and 2015, the Groups culture and values.
Gender diversity is also we evaluated the performance of the Board and its Our Code of Business Conduct Business practices Dealing with Dealing with Dealing with We shall engage in honest, customers shareholders and employees professional and ethical We shall treat customers We shall maintain a working other stakeholders conduct and maintain effective fairly, openly and honestly, environment that attracts, We shall seek to maximise procedures to prevent and operate an effective motivates and retains employees, shareholder value over time, confidential information complaints process to address and is intolerant of any type of recognising that wealth being misused.
any perceived departure discrimination, harassment generated also benefits from these standards.
customers, employees and the communities where we operate.
48 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 48 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committees internally.
During 2016, our Board evaluation Our values was externally facilitated by Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School.
The review focused on the Boards role and composition: the relevance, flow and quality of information, Do the right thing and the Non-Executive Directors balance of knowledge, skills For our people, our customers, our shareholders and our wider and expertise.
The findings have equipped us to continue to stakeholders: make decisions based on what is right, not what improve the leadership of the Group.
You can find further is easy: demonstrate personal and professional integrity: do details on page 59. whats right for the long-term sustainability of our business.
Executive Remuneration The debate in the UK over Executive remuneration remains a Aim higher valid topic for discussion and continuous evaluation.
The Groups Strive to be the best in every area of the business: be remuneration policy remains aligned with our strategic priorities ambitious, courageous and innovative: relentlessly challenge and the interests of our shareholders.
As required by legislation, and improve: seek and embrace change: learn from our the policy will be put forward for adoption by shareholders at our mistakes: persevere, always deliver our promises and dont forthcoming AGM.
Details of the consultation process undertaken settle for second best.
by the Remuneration Committee can be reviewed on page 80 and the revised remuneration policy proposed is detailed on pages 100 to 109.
Work together UK Corporate Governance Code Collaborate across all levels and functions: leverage the The Board is committed to the principles of the UK Corporate skills, knowledge and experience, irrespective of hierarchy, Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council to deliver the best possible results: develop relationships based the Code.
I am pleased to report that we have complied on trusting each other, partnerships and win-wins: recognise with all of the principles of the 2014 edition of the Code and celebrate success.
which applied to the financial year under review.
You can find further explanation and details on pages 53 to 63.
Take ownership Culture and values Treat it like its OUR business: take the initiative, if you can The Board is responsible for securing the long-term success see a better way, go and make a difference: take decisions, of the Group.
The Board aims to deliver this success by creating be accountable for your actions in whatever role you perform: an open culture that encourages the Group to make decisions take responsibility for your personal development that are best for our stakeholders.
I believe that the values and and performance.
the Code of Business Conduct set by the Board are central to the Groups culture.
Our Code of Business Conduct governs the way we treat our stakeholders, and our values determine our Say it like it is behaviours.
Together, these elements reflect the way we do Be real, authentic and true to yourself: have adult-to-adult business with the objectives of delivering long-term sustainable conversations with all audiences: listen, seek to understand shareholder value and of ensuring our Groups long-term success.
and respect diversity of views: be open, call out issues we see: share information and keep things as simple as possible.
Our shareholders Communication with shareholders is extremely important to us.
By maintaining dialogue with you, we aim to ensure that your Bring all of yourself to work concerns are met and our objectives are understood.
I would Be the best you can be, the real and whole you: celebrate like to thank you for your support and look forward to our diversity of skills, experiences and personalities: be a discussing the Groups progress with you at our forthcoming role model to others, demonstrate a can do spirit, have fun AGM on 11 May 2017. and make this a great place to be: be excited about our Company and our future: believe in yourself, feel confident Yours sincerely and empowered.
Michael N Biggs Chairman Dealing with suppliers of Dealing with Dealing with Dealing with goods and services and communities and competitors regulators We will compete fairly and We shall maintain a constructive business partnerships the environment honestly and in accordance and open relationship with our We shall maintain the highest We shall contribute to the with all applicable regulators to foster mutual trust, possible standards of integrity in social and economic well-being competition laws.
respect and understanding, and business relationships with suppliers of those communities where we will not offer anything to officials and partners by treating them are an employer, and encourage in return for favourable treatment.
honestly and with respect, and employees to participate in avoiding compromising offers of projects and initiatives to gifts and hospitality.
