Chairmans Letter Andy Harrison Chairman The last fifteen months have been a period of renewal for the In January we held a Corporate Governance meeting, attended Dunelm Board, with new appointments to both the Executive by Will Adderley, the Non-Executive Directors and myself, to and Non-Executive teams.
This has been spurred partly by the which our major institutional shareholders were invited.
We had natural retirement process and partly by the Boards desire to a useful exchange of views on a number of governance topics, bring in new skills and experiences to deliver our ambitious which we have taken into account in our subsequent Board plans.
The new team is settling down remarkably well, helped discussions.
by our Deputy Chairman and the experience of our longer We have carried out our regular Board evaluation process, serving Non-Executive Directors.
with the help of an external expert.
This confirmed that your We remain totally committed to maintaining our track record new Board is working well together and brought some helpful of good governance, supporting best practice guidelines and insights to make us more effective.
seeking to apply them in a pragmatic way that adds value to At our AGM this year, as usual, all Directors will be seeking Dunelm.
In addition, in accordance with the Listing Marion Sears has played a central role in our Board renewal Rules, each of the Non-Executive Directors will also be subject and I am delighted that she will continue as a Non-Executive to a vote of shareholders independent of the Adderley family.
To comply with best practice she has retired from the In April, Will Adderley, our Deputy Chairman and a major Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees, and as chair of shareholder, disposed of part of his shareholding to the point the Nominations Committee.
where it is no longer necessary for us to seek a Rule 9 waiver We have asked Simon Emeny to continue as our Senior to support our policy to buy back shares to satisfy employee Independent Director and Chair of our Remuneration share option entitlements.
When we asked for this waiver in Committee for one more year.
We really appreciate the previous years it has caused a policy difficulty for a number of continuity and experience that he brings to our Board.
our institutional shareholders, although the Board believes that Although he has served nine years, we believe his it has been in the interests of our shareholders as a whole.
independence has been in no way compromised by his length I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM.
Yours sincerely Andy Harrison Chairman 14 September 2016 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 39 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-front.
