Corporate governance report Chairmans letter The Board was fully engaged in the process of transitioning to a new executive leadership last year.
Paul Waterman was appointed CEO to succeed David Dutro at the start of the year and Ralph Hewins was appointed CFO towards the end of the year, when Brian Taylorson stepped down from the role.
Individually and together these are signi cant changes to make in any organisation.
Both David and Brian served for a substantial period and made material contributions to the growth and success of the Company.
However, the transition to a new team is only natural and represents a new stage in the development of the Company.
An important aspect to manage well was the dynamics in the The Board visited our Songjiang facility boardroom between its executive and non-executive members, in Shanghai, China in October 2016 and it is pleasing to be able to say that the quality and transparency of interactions between members and the cohesiveness of the Board as a whole continue to be strong at this early stage.
Theaddition of Sandra Boss and Dorothee Deuring to the Board The Board held two of its meetings overseas in 2016.
In June and the retirement of Andrew Christie will undoubtedly mean itvisited our management headquarters in East Windsor, thesedynamics and interactions continuing to evolve over 2017.
NewJersey, US and in October our Songjiang facility in Shanghai, Iam nevertheless satis ed with the progress so far.
The annual trip to East Windsor is important because it is where most of our leadership team is based, so the visit provides These changes complete the Board refreshment process that important face-to-face time for Board members and the leadership wasinitiated in 2013.
During this period, the Board has sought and wider business teams.
The trip to Shanghai enabled some toprovide stability and continuity to the leadership team and ofour Board members who had not visited before to see our ourwider investment community.
The recruitment of Sandra and operations there and meet the local leadership team.
I would Dorothee increases the Boards number from seven to eight but, liketothank all our staff who welcomed us during these visits.
more importantly, it broadens its international pro le and expertise and improves its overall resilience.
I have every con dence that as The Nomination Committee had a busy year and a report of the Board matures in its new form, its performance and the itsactivities is given later.
The external effectiveness evaluation support and guidance it gives to the leadership team will be in2015 was followed last year by an internally produced enhanced for the betterment of the Company.
The key areas of focus for the Boardwere identi ed as: Board and leadership team transition: Below Board level, Paul has restructured his leadership team management information performance management: delivery of intoa atter and more accountable organisation and with a more strategic priorities: and talent management.
Further details of this rigorous focus on performance management.
Ralph has also evaluation can be found in the Nomination Committee report.
reviewed the structure of the global finance team with a view toproviding better support to the business and functional areas.
Statement of compliance These changes mean the Board will be having more, deeper The Board is of the view that it has applied fully throughout 2016 interactions with the next level of management that will help allof the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code informits understanding of the available talent within the Group.
Insummary, a lot has been done in terms of organisational design toensure that Elementis has the people resources and capabilities The sections that follow describe how the Board has applied the to deliver on the strategic priorities laid out in last years Capital principles and provisions of the Code.
Markets Day and as described elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Deloitte LLP were appointed the Groups auditors at the 2016 AGM and they have spent 2016 getting to know our people, businesses Andrew Duff and processes, and completing an audit transition process.
Chairman 1 March 2017 In April last year, Andrew Christie, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and I undertook a series of meetings with a number ofour major shareholders, to discuss the Directors remuneration report ahead of the AGM vote.
We were pleased that almost 80percent of our shareholders supported the resolution.
32 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016
