COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER Dear Shareholder, The design of our remuneration Annual bonus arrangements rewards good performance We have re-evaluated the Income First let me say 2016 has been a very but also pays zero for missed targets.
Statement measures within the 2017 disappointing year for shareholders as As a result, the Executive Directors and bonus, and will use operating profit a result of the various commercial and the wider Leadership Group will not be and net income as independent operational issues identified in the Full receiving any bonuses this year, and performance measures in 2016, Year 2016 Review.
their 2014 LTIP awards will fully lapse.
operating profit and revenue were used as a combined measure.
Aligning pay and strategy As outlined in the Full Year 2016 Review, a Also, in order to place greater emphasis new corporate strategy will be formulated on balance sheet management, an and implemented during 2017.
The increased 30% 2016: 10% of the 2017 Remuneration Committee will be working bonus will be determined by net alongside Paul Forman as his strategy work working capital performance.
Our aim will be to develop a pay structure that complements the new LTIP strategy, and retains and engages the In 2015, we pledged to grant LTIP workforce required to deliver it.
awards to the senior management team over a fixed number of shares Our proposals will be reflected in a revised for each year in the period 2015-17.
Remuneration Policy for which shareholder Although the share price has fallen approval will be sought at the 2018 AGM.
by more than 50% since the 2015 We look forward to constructive discussion award, LTIP awards will continue with our shareholders as we develop our to be granted in 2017 on this basis.
proposals over the coming year.
It is important that the performance Pay arrangements for 2017 measures for the 2017 LTIP awards As highlighted, the Executive Directors and should be aligned with our strategy the wider Leadership Group will be focused and be meaningful and robust.
in 2017 on taking the necessary steps to Accordingly, the Remuneration put Essentra back on a more stable and Committee will grant the awards and sustainable footing from which mediumset the performance measures after term growth can be restored.
The the completion of the strategic review Remuneration Committees key pay which we expect to be in July.
Full decisions in relation to 2017 are designed details of the performance measures to support this period of stabilisation.
will be disclosed to shareholders when the awards are granted in July and in Base salaries next years Remuneration Report.
There will be no salary increases in 2017 for the Executive Directors and the wider Leadership Group.
This Full details of the Executive Directors emphasises the focus on tight cost pay arrangements for 2017 are set out control within the stabilisation process.
64 DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Change in Chief Executive 2017 AGM remuneration resolutions Colin Day was replaced as Chief There will be an advisory shareholder vote Executive by Paul Forman in January 2017. on the Annual Report on Remuneration A summary of Paul Formans remuneration the ARR at the 2017 AGM.
The ARR is arrangements, which are consistent with on pages 71 to 82 and contains details of our current Remuneration Policy, is set the remuneration received by the Directors out below: during 2016, together with full details Salary of 625,000 subject to annual of how we intend to implement the review at January 2018 Remuneration Policy during 2017.
Pension provision worth 25% of salary, The Remuneration Policy the Policy car allowance and standard other was approved by shareholders at the 2015 benefits AGM and will remain effective until the Maximum annual bonus potential of 2018 AGM.
There is therefore no vote on 150% of salary, with half of any bonus the Policy at the 2017 AGM although, for deferred in shares for three years shareholder reference, a summary of the Policy is on pages 66 to 70.
An annual award of performance shares under the LTIP Plan over shares I hope you will find this Report to be worth 200% of salary clear and helpful in understanding our A one-off additional award of remuneration practices and, as ever, the performance shares under the LTIP Remuneration Committee welcomes any over shares worth 100% of salary.
This award was agreed by the Remuneration Committee to LORRAINE TRAINER compensate him for the value of Remuneration Committee Chairman share awards granted by his previous 17 February 2017 employer that lapsed when he joined Essentra.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this award was appropriate to secure Paul Formans recruitment.
The award will be wholly linked to Essentras long-term performance, will have a longer vesting period and will be of lower value than the forfeited awards Shareholding guideline of 300% of salary The Remuneration Committee has also considered termination pay arrangements for Colin Day.
Full details of those arrangements are set out on page 79 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
