COM DIRECTORS REPORT | AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER Dear Shareholder, In order for the Audit Committee As reported in the 2015 Annual Report, and to provide positive assurance to the consistent with EU requirements, during the As Chairman of the Essentra plc Audit Board, that the Annual Report, when year the Company initiated a re-tender for Committee, I am pleased to present taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and the appointment of an external auditor for the 2016 Audit Committee Report to understandable and also provides the the 2017 audit.
This competitive tender was shareholders and to be able to confirm, information necessary for shareholders overseen by the Audit Committee, and on behalf of the Board, that the to assess the Companys position and the selection process involved members Annual Report is fair, balanced performance, business model and strategy of the Audit Committee as well as the and understandable.
the following processes and controls Board and senior members of the have been put in place: Finance team.
An annual update is made to the Audit Committee on the fair, balanced The Audit Committee set out clear criteria and understandable requirement, under which each of the tender parties including early notification of the could be assessed, with the process matters under consideration for including the sharing of both financial inclusion or otherwise in the narrative and non-financial information.
In addition, reporting of the 2016 results meetings were held with me and members of executive management, and a number An experienced core team is of site visits were carried out further to responsible for the co-ordination of which gathering of information each content submission, verification, party submitted their respective proposal detailed review and challenge document and gave a presentation Senior management confirms that the to the Audit Committee.
content regarding their respective area of responsibility is considered to Upon the conclusion of the process, be fair, balanced and understandable the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of each tender party against These processes provide comfort to its criteria and recommended to the Board the Board, and allows them to make that  LLC PwC the statement as required by the 2014 were selected as the external auditor to UK Corporate Governance Code.
be put forward for appointment at the 2017 AGM.
Assuming shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, preparations are being put in place to ensure the smooth transition of the external audit responsibility from KPMG to PwC.
On behalf of the Audit Committee, I would like to thank KPMG for their substantial contribution to Essentra since 2005, and for their professional approach to completing the transition.
58 DIRECTORS REPORT | AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM I hope that you will support the Resolution In conclusion, the Audit Committee is at the 2017 AGM to appoint PwC as the satisfied that the Company has maintained Companys external auditor.
robust risk management and internal controls throughout the year, and that the Another continued key area of focus for the internal audit programme is appropriately Audit Committee during the year was cyber formulated and sufficiently resourced to security, and the potential for such threats confirm that these controls are effective.
to affect the Company at all levels.
While Essentra operates in industries which are The report aims to provide the following generally perceived to be a relatively information: lower priority for attackers, the risk of such How the Audit Committee operates incidents is likely to increase over the and engages with the Company, next few years due to increasing external including the Group Assurance function cyber threats particularly focusing on and the Executive Directors manufacturing and design systems.
The key activities which were reviewed Alongside regular updates from the Group by the Audit Committee, including Chief Information Officer, Ernst & Young those items of regular annual review EY was appointed to provide an and other current areas of focus independent assessment of the current status of Essentras cyber security The discussions and actions undertaken, capabilities.
in conjunction with the external auditor, on any significant judgements and I am pleased to report the conclusion was or issues that the Company has made good Details of the ongoing review of progress with the development of its the external auditor and the amount cyber security activities, and our results of non-audit work undertaken are for the most part in line with our FTSE peers notwithstanding areas for continued improvement.
Further scenario TERRY TWIGGER testing is planned during 2017 at an Audit Committee Chairman executive level, together with educational 17 February 2017 training across the wider organisation.
