58 Governance Chairmans introduction Chairmans introduction Summary Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company.
UK Corporate Governance Code, September 2014 Don Robert Chairman On behalf of the Board, I am This body of work in the area of controls, Board focus during the year pleased to present the Corporate and particularly risk tolerance, also feeds A key Board focus for the year was governance report for the year ended into the Boards responsibility for setting supporting management in the 31 March 2016.
Effective corporate the Groups values and standards.
numerous strategic, operational and governance, the oversight of which is Establishing clear policies, standards financial improvements being executed the responsibility of the Board under and guidance defines the parameters by, or embedded throughout, the my leadership, is a key foundation of within which the entrepreneurial and business.
The annual strategy session Experians strategic direction.
It defines risk-taking activities necessary for longin January 2016 was an important part the framework within which we can term success must operate.
Setting of this process, and allowed the Board develop our strategy, review critical values and standards, effectively the to critically analyse the progress made decisions, manage any challenges culture, also means other things.
For against our previously stated strategic that the Group faces and monitor the example, work is ongoing on bringing priorities and to provide further direction.
Groups performance on an ongoing together the full power of Experian, Whilst a lot has been achieved this year, basis.
As Chairman, I am responsible regardless of where capabilities sit there is still work to do to realise our full for ensuring that the Board is within the organisation, and using that growth ambition.
empowered and resourced to do these power to help our clients achieve their things, and has the right combination The Board, through the Audit goals.
Initiatives in this space include of skills and experience to provide Committee, has also spent time during ensuring a single face for the business the leadership required to ensure the year enhancing elements of the and fostering a culture of collaboration success for the business.
The Board Groups governance framework, either across One Experian.
is committed to good governance, and in response to specific regulatory to operating transparently, openly and developments, as a comprehensive with integrity, and these principles are follow-up to the client-related data embedded in the boardroom and in how security incident that affected the the Board operates.
Group in September 2015, or because the Board continues to believe that governance is important and should not remain static.
Initiatives included developing risk appetite statements for the Group, developing a Group tax policy, working on a viability statement and reviewing a number of Group policies and enhanced controls.
Governance Chairmans introduction 59 During the year, Luiz Fleury joined Board effectiveness the Board, and his insight, extensive and changes experience in the Brazilian financial To ensure that the Board is being market and deep local knowledge are effective in its responsibilities, with the valuable attributes, given the importance Chief Executive Officer, Brian Cassin, of Latin America to Experian.
Alan Jebson and the Company Secretary, Charles retired, Jan Babiak resigned and Fabiola Brown, I ensure that the agenda for each Arredondo stepped down, as directors Board meeting includes an appropriate of the Company during the year: and mix of standing items and subjects Judith Sprieser intends to step down with that may, in the context of events or effect from the conclusion of the Annual challenges, be directly relevant at the General Meeting in July 2016.
This process, together with visits do not publish specific diversity targets, to the business and presentations on as a Board we recognise the significant topical issues, means that the Board is benefits of a diverse Board and, when focused on the right areas.
recruiting, will seek to address diversity gaps on our Board.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends an annual Board Conclusion effectiveness evaluation, and this As Chairman, one of my key roles is to provides the Board with a regular ensure that the Board and Experian opportunity to critically self-evaluate.
continue to have high standards of This years evaluation was facilitated corporate governance whilst, at the same internally, and was the third year of our time, we establish and continually develop three-year evaluation cycle.
It involved the right controls to provide the Board a series of questions to directors with the appropriate level of oversight and using an online tool.
The following report provides covered a number of areas, including more information on how this is achieved Board composition and expertise, and outlines our governance approach.
Board dynamics, strategic oversight, You will also find on the following pages competition, risk management and an overview of the Companys compliance internal control, remuneration and p60 with the UK Corporate Governance technical development needs.
I was able Code, which should be read alongside to use the output from the evaluation the Corporate governance report.
I hope when I spoke to each Board member, to that you will find the overview and report evaluate his or her own performance in helpful in understanding the Experian February and March.
The Board and the governance framework.
Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee also reviewed the results and considered areas of focus in March 2016. p68 You will read later about the focus areas that the Board has agreed for itself.
