FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 113 Chairmans Letter of Governance Dear Shareholder, The Board has taken time during 2016 to focus on the culture of the Company.
In 2016, there have been changes in the This is an important topic which has been composition of the Board and to our Board added to the responsibilities of the Health, our collective committees and with close to nine years Safety, Environmental and Community having now elapsed since our IPO, we will Relations Committee during the year.
commitment continue to make changes over the year We know that our target of achieving ahead, in order for us to continue to comply zero fatalities will not be achieved without to good with the UK Corporate Governance Code having the right organisational culture to in relation to the number of independent underpin that aim and, further, the right governance Non-executive Directors on our Board.
culture supports the overall effectiveness We have given this matter much thought of the organisation.
We have seen remains as strong during 2016 and have been discussing encouraging signs in this regard for the composition of the Board with some example in the use of our whistleblowing as ever of our independent shareholders.
hotline and the completion of online anti-bribery and corruption training by Our Board committees have all been very virtually all our employees during the year.
In the early part of the year, the Audit Committee led the work As ever, I am grateful to my Board and of the Board in reviewing the production management colleagues for continuing of our first Viability Statement.
I am to dedicate themselves to meeting pleased to note that our Statement our collective commitment to good was well-received by shareholders and governance within Fresnillo plc.
The Audit Committee head towards the tenth anniversary of also fulfilled another previously stated our listing on the London Stock Exchange, commitment by undertaking a thorough that commitment remains as strong tender exercise for the external auditor to as ever.
take effect for the 2017 financial year end audit.
At the conclusion of this exercise, the Yours faithfully Audit Committee unanimously determined that Ernst & Young LLP is the best firm Mr Alberto Baillres to provide external audit services to the Chairman of the Board Company and recommended this decision to the Board, who concurred and their re-appointment will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee has been equally active in preparing for the renewal of our Directors remuneration policy at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
I am pleased that independent shareholders have always been overwhelmingly supportive of the unique Mexico-centric approach that we take to executive remuneration.
Nevertheless, the Remuneration Committee has sought to ensure that emerging regulatory developments and the expectations of shareholders are taken into account as we develop the remuneration policy: but without losing sight of what the policy needs to achieve within our operational context.
