Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 76 4 Letter from the Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment & Community Relations Committee Our commitment to long-term value Additionally, our Environment, Social and Community relations highlights include: creation is founded upon responsible Governance ESG performance was again A productive second year of mining practices.
The Health, Safety, recognised with the inclusion of Fresnillo collaboration with the National Environment & Community Relations plc in the STOXX ESG leaders and the Autonomous University of Mexico HSECR Committee evaluates, on behalf Ethibel Excellence Investment Register.
UNAM Foundation in the provision of of the Board, the Companys effectiveness free dental treatments and prescription in meeting the sustainability challenge.
Health & Safety eyeglasses for our neighbouring Although mining is considered a communities at each of our mines.
In 2016, the Committee met in accordance high-risk activity, any accidents, injuries The Company engaged the support with its terms of reference, and as part of or occupational illnesses whatsoever of municipal authorities for investments our governance agenda we continued to incurred by the Companys employees into infrastructure projects to benefit monitor progress made towards reaching or contractors are unacceptable.
full maturity of the HSECR System.
I am The Company regrets to report three very pleased to report that the HSECR fatalities in 2016 and one in early 2017.
Ethical culture System has now reached its full maturity The Committee has instructed In 2016 the Board assigned the HSECR as planned and audited by PwC.
management to take decisive action Committee with the task of overseeing to improve safety.
A comprehensive the Companys efforts to embed ethics Root Cause Analysis has been conducted and integrity into organisational culture.
in each case and concrete measures The Committee is following up on this area have been taken in order to prevent and looks forward to greater involvement similar accidents.
Health & Safety performance highlights In the accompanying report, stakeholders include: are provided with a more detailed view into the Companys overall HSECR efforts and Operational areas continued to develop performance in 2016. their skills in simulated emergency response scenarios, with drills at all The Committee will continue to oversee, mining operations.
on behalf of the Board, the important Health & Safety departments mission of reaching our HSECR, culture implemented a new IT system to and ethics goals, always striving towards enhance monitoring and accountability.
excellence in all of these matters.
Environment We extend our deepest condolences to Environmental stewardship is a the families of the four people who died fundamental component of the in 2016 and early 2017.
We will honour their social license.
The Committee monitors memory by ensuring that safety continues managements performance and to be our utmost priority.
responsiveness in relation to environmental challenges.
Performance highlights include: Yours faithfully, The Noche Buena mine obtained Arturo Fernndez Prez, its Cyanide Code certification.
Chairman Penmont obtained the second level Health, Safety, Environment and of the Clean Industry certification.
Community Relations Committee Community Relations Community trust, based on mutually beneficial relations, is also integral to the social license.
Mining brings benefits and contributes to the development of skills in local communities.
We expect our personnel to engage with such communities respectfully, making certain that our business practices respect their human rights at all times.
