CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Effectiveness Maintaining a skilled, balanced and effective Board is crucial for the long-term success of the Group.
I am confident that the composition of our Board, which comprises skilled and experienced Directors, provides the appropriate balance of challenge and support to ensure that it operates effectively and makes the best possible decisions.
The non-executive element of the Board was strengthened in July 2016 with the appointment of Anne Stevens.
Annes appointment strengthens the gender diversity and international experience of the Board.
I was pleased to welcome Anne to GKN and she has already proved to be a strong asset to the Board.
Further details of Annes Leadership appointment can be found on page 72.
As a Board, we are responsible for the stewardship of the Company At the end of February 2017, Richard Parry-Jones will complete and for protecting and growing the long-term value of GKN for the nine years as a non-executive Director of GKN.
Given Richards benefit of its shareholders.
We are accountable to the Companys length of tenure, feedback was sought as part of the external shareholders for the decisions that we make.
Board effectiveness evaluation conducted in November 2016 in order to determine that he remained independent in character and Our governance framework helps to protect our shareholders judgement.
The feedback report strongly reflected the view that investment by ensuring that processes are in place for decisions to Richard remained independent notwithstanding the length of his be made by the right people, with the right information and within tenure, and the Board accepted the recommendation of the the right environment, having debated and given due consideration Nominations Committee to extend his term of appointment.
Accountability Culture The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the risk appetite of At GKN we always seek to operate at the highest ethical standards.
the Group and for maintaining appropriate risk management systems.
Doing the right thing runs through everything we do its in our DNA.
During the year, we continued to refine our risk procedures and As a Board, setting and demonstrating the values and behaviours strengthen our risk assurance processes in response to changes that we expect from our employees is not enough.
We also need to our risk profile.
A summary of our risk management and internal to ensure that these values and standards are understood and control procedures can be found on page 68 and details of the embedded within the Group.
improvements made to these procedures during 2016 can be found in the strategic report and in the report on the Groups principal risks During the year, we defined a simple set of principles called the GKN on pages 42 to 49.
These principles underpin the pillars of the Groups culture, policies and practices, and are supported by the leadership The details of how we have complied with the principles and behaviours which define the qualities we look for in our employees.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code are described more fully throughout this report.
Mindful of the increasingly regulated environment in which we operate, and therefore of the obligations that we have to impose on our employees, we issued a new Governance Handbook during 2016 to provide transparent and easy access to all the Groups governance policies and procedures.
Mike Turner CBE Chairman 27 February 2017 62 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Leadership The role of the Board In addition to regular Board reviews of strategic projects, we hold an annual two-day Board meeting which is devoted to reviewing We are responsible for the stewardship and long-term success progress made against Group strategy and discussing longer-term of GKN.
Our overarching aim is to create sustainable value for the strategic options.
During this meeting we receive detailed updates on benefit of our shareholders.
Principally, we achieve this through: markets and technology trends from external experts and we discuss setting the strategic objectives of the Group and ensuring it and approve the strategy for each division and the Group.
We also hold has the executive leadership and necessary resources to meet a number of informal meetings during the year to build and maintain those aims: strong relations between Directors.
Additionally, I meet from time to time with the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors approving key strategic projects and the Group and divisional being present so that we can discuss their priorities and concerns.
budgets: I have set out below the areas on which we focused in 2016. ensuring that the Group has an effective risk management framework: Board focus areas in 2016 setting and maintaining the values and standards of the Group: and Strategy Reviewed and approved the Groups strategic reviewing management performance.
Reviewed a number of potential acquisitions.
Our governance framework establishes a clear division of Approved the sale of the Groups Stromag responsibilities of the Board which are summarised below.
business to Altra Industrial Motion Corp. A full description of our role, which includes a number of specific Reviewed progress on the integration of the responsibilities reserved to us, is available on our website at Fokker Technologies acquisition.
Risk Assessed the risks to the achievement of the Group strategy and calibrated the Groups risk appetite.
Shareholders Considered and debated the principal risks and uncertainties which could impact the Group.
Board Approved the level of risk financing and Accountable to shareholders and responsible for the long-term insurance.
success of the Company Agreed severe but plausible scenarios to model and test the viability of the Group.
Chairman Board committees Chief Executive Capabilities Considered succession planning for the Leads the Board Support the Board Leads the business Board, the Executive Committee and senior and is responsible in the fulfilment of and is responsible executive positions within the Group, and for its effectiveness its duties for executing the in key geographic and strategic areas such strategy as Asia and technology respectively.
Evaluated the effectiveness of the Board and Senior Non-executive Executive agreed appropriate actions.
Independent Directors Directors Director Constructively Responsible for the Performance Considered Group financial performance Acts as a sounding challenge and help day-to-day against budget and forecast.
board for the develop the Groups operation of the Reviewed lessons learned from programme business Chairman and strategy management issues in GKN Driveline.
intermediary for Considered a post-investment review on other Directors a significant customer programme for where necessary GKN Driveline.
Considered health and safety performance Company Secretary throughout the Group.
Provides independent advice to the Board, ensures good information Reviewed the half-year and annual results flow, and maintains good shareholder relations and approved the annual report and interim financial statements.
Control Assessed, with the support of the Audit & Risk Board meetings Committee, the effectiveness of internal control and audit processes.
We meet formally approximately nine times a year.
To increase our visibility of the Groups operations and provide further opportunities People and Approved an updated set of values to meet senior management, at least one Board meeting is combined culture the GKN DNA.
with a visit to the Groups business locations.
In April 2016, we visited Received a presentation on feedback from the Fokker Technologies facility in Papendrecht, Holland, and in October Groups employee engagement survey.
2016 we visited GKN Sinter Metals facility in Bonn, Germany.
On Reviewed progress against the Groups both visits we toured the facilities, reviewed business performance diversity targets.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Corporate Governance continued Board committees In line with the Code we delegate certain responsibilities to our Board Only the committee chairman and members are entitled to be present committees, which assist the Board in carrying out its functions and at committee meetings, although additional attendees may be invited ensure that there is independent oversight of internal control and risk should their input be required.
In order that the Board remains fully management, executive remuneration and new Board appointments.
updated on their work, the committee chairmen report on committee activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
Reports on the activities of our principal committees can be found on the following pages and their terms of reference are available on our website.
All Board committees are supported by the Company Secretariat.
GKN plc Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Executive Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Shonaid Richard Mike Nigel Nigel Jemmett-Page Parry-Jones Turner Stein Stein Composition All independent All independent All non-executive Chief Executive, Chief Executive, Group non-executive Directors non-executive Directors Directors Group Finance Director, Finance Director and the divisional chief Company Secretary executives, Group HR Director, Group Communications Director and the General Counsel Role Monitors the integrity Agrees remuneration Leads the process Leads, oversees and Ensures adequate of the financial of the executive for identifying and directs the activities procedures, systems reporting process.
Directors and the appointing Directors of the Group.
and controls are Reviews Company Secretary with skills and Executes the Groups maintained to enable managements within the terms of experience to deliver strategic plan.
the Company to responsiveness to the the agreed policy.
the continued success Approves and leads comply with its external auditors Reviews and approves of the Company.
the consistent obligations regarding findings.
proposed shortand Keeps under review implementation of identification and Reviews the Groups long-term incentive the succession business and disclosure of inside internal control and payments to executive planning and operational processes.
risk management Directors to ensure leadership needs Identifies, evaluates Ensures that all systems.
such payments are of the Group.
and monitors the risks significant regulatory Reviews the justified.
Keeps under review facing the Group and announcements, the effectiveness of the Monitors the level the structure, size decides how they are annual report and external and internal and structure of and composition to be managed.
accounts and other audit process.
remuneration of of the Board and documents issued by the most senior its committees, the Company comply executives below recommending any with applicable Board level.
Executive sub-committees The Executive Committees execution of the Groups strategy is supported by three sub-committees as shown below.
Executive Committee Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee Governance and Risk Sub-Committee Group Technology Strategy Board Drives operational best practice through the Monitors and reviews matters relating to Develops the Groups technology plan application of Lean business processes governance, compliance and risk management In addition, the Chief Executives Council assists in shaping the Groups strategy and operations.
Chaired by the Chief Executive, the Councils membership comprises members of the Executive Committee and 16 senior executives from divisional leadership teams involved in the day-to-day running of the businesses.
Richard Parry-Jones and Shonaid Jemmett-Page attended a meeting of the Council in December 2016 to meet with senior executives and give their views on the business.
64 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Effectiveness Diversity of skills, experience, knowledge Induction and personalities Ongoing development Commitment to fostering an open and Composition and constructively challenging Board dynamic commitment Development Sufficient time commitment Individual and Board performance Accurate and clear information in evaluations to provide feedback and advance of meetings identify opportunities for improvement Access to the Company Secretary and Performance independent advice when needed evaluation Information and support The Board has considered the relationships and circumstances Following her appointment to the Board on 1 July 2016, Anne will that may affect, or appear to affect, the independence of the retire and offer herself for election at the 2017 annual general non-executive Directors.
In particular, it considered the length meeting.
All other Directors will retire and seek re-election at the of service of Richard Parry-Jones who has been a non-executive AGM in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Biographical Director since 1 March 2008 and Senior Independent Director details of all Directors are given on pages 60 and 61. since May 2012.
As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation, the external facilitator was requested to seek feedback on The Board is not aware of any matter that would likely affect the Richards independence.
Based on feedback received, the report judgement of any Director.
After careful deliberation and taking into concluded that Richard continues to play a fully independent role account the output of the Board effectiveness review, the Board on the Board.
considers all the non-executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, to be independent.
In light of this, and recognising the importance of continuity and the value that experienced Directors can bring to the Board and the Prior to the appointment of Anne Stevens in July 2016, the Board Group, the Nominations Committee recommended that Richards comprised four executive Directors and five non-executive term be extended and the Board accepted this recommendation.
Following Annes appointment the Board comprises four executive Directors and six non-executive Directors including the Chairman.
Accordingly, at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, was composed of independent non-executive Directors during the year.
Composition and commitment The composition of our Board is kept under review by the All Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to the Company Nominations Committee to ensure that it retains an appropriate to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The time commitment balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity and knowledge expected of each non-executive Director is set out in their letter of the Group to enable it to meet the needs of the business.
The of appointment and non-executive appointees must demonstrate Committee then makes recommendations for appointments to the that they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
Collectively we have many years of experience gained across with the Code, Anne Stevens other significant time commitments a variety of areas and industries, including finance, engineering and were disclosed to the Board prior to her appointment as a nonmanufacturing.
Many Directors on the Board have strong international executive Director.
backgrounds having held executive positions in Asia and the Americas.
Recognising the benefits that experience on other boards can bring Following the appointment of Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash as to the Company, executive Directors may accept one external executive Directors in January 2016, and recognising the need to non-executive directorship, excluding the chairmanship of a FTSE refresh the Board and its committees in the context of the Companys 100 company.
Any proposed appointment is subject to review and strategy, we identified the need for an additional non-executive takes into account the Directors duty to avoid a conflict of interest.
The process that the Nominations Committee followed in During the year, Nigel Stein and Adam Walker continued in their recommending Anne Stevens appointment is set out in its report on respective roles as non-executive directors of FTSE companies.
As with all our Board appointments, Annes appointment The time commitment of each Director was reviewed in the Boards was made on merit against objective criteria with due regard to individual performance evaluations and I can confirm that each diversity of skills, experience and gender.
Director continues to devote sufficient time to their respective role.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Corporate Governance continued Board and committee attendance I discuss training and development needs with each Director as Attendance at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Audit & Risk, part of our annual individual performance evaluation process.
The Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2016 was Company Secretary keeps under review the suitability of external as follows: courses so that any needs identified either through the evaluation process or on an ad hoc basis can be addressed.
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee During the year, Directors received training and formal updates in the Director 10 meetings 6 meetings 10 meetings 4 meetings following areas: Chairman Mike Turner 10 4 Governance Ethics and bribery Corporate integrity Executive Directors Building public trust Nigel Stein 10 4 The EU Market Abuse Regulation Kevin Cummings 10 Strategy Long-term market and technological trends Phil Swash 10 Technology and innovation Adam Walker 10 Non-executive Directors Risk Cyber risk The impact of the EU referendum Angus Cockburn 10 6 10 4 1 Tufan Erginbilgic 9 4 9 4 Finance Accounting technical updates Shonaid Jemmett-Page 10 6 10 4 Capabilities Succession planning and diversity Richard Parry-Jones 10 6 10 4 2 Anne Stevens 5 5 3 3 4 4 1 1 In relation to plant visits, Shonaid Jemmett-Page visited our winter 1 Tufan Erginbilgic was unable to attend the July and September Audit & Risk Committee testing facility in Japan.
meetings, the June Remuneration Committee meeting and the September Board meeting due to prior business commitments.
2 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Anne Stevens could attend based on date of appointment of 1 July 2016.
Information and support As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that Directors receive Development accurate, timely and clear information.
I set Board agendas following Induction consultation with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the On joining the Board, a Director receives a tailored induction to suit Company Secretary.
An annual programme of items for discussion the individuals background and experience.
This includes: is kept under review by the Company Secretary to ensure that all matters reserved to us and other key issues are considered at the a comprehensive induction pack with background information appropriate time.
about GKN, details of Board meeting procedures, and Directors duties and responsibilities in addition to a number of other To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion and to governance-related issues: enable informed decision making, briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
a briefing with the Company Secretary who is responsible for All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the facilitating the induction of new Directors both into the Group Company Secretary who ensures that the Board is fully briefed on and as to their roles and responsibilities as Directors: legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
meetings with the Chief Executive and with relevant senior Briefing papers are also circulated to committee members in advance executives to be briefed on the Group strategy and each individual of committee meetings and, in respect of the Audit & Risk Committee, business portfolio: are made available to all other Directors.
The Company Secretary plant visits: and supports the committee chairmen by ensuring that agendas are appropriate and address all matters for which the committee has external training where appropriate, particularly on matters specific responsibility.
relating to the role of a Director and the role and responsibilities of Board committees.
In addition to the above, Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The above process was applied following the appointment of Anne Stevens.
Anne took part in the Board trip to GKN Sinter Metals, Bonn, and also visited GKN Drivelines technology centre and GKN Land Systems facility in Lohmar.
Ongoing development Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses, the markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive and regulatory environment through briefings to the Board and meetings with senior executives.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit Group operations in addition to formal Board visits to increase their exposure to the business.
66 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Performance evaluation process Areas of focus believed to be critical to the Boards effectiveness were Performance evaluation used to provide a comprehensive brief to the external assessment team.
Board evaluation For 2016, the areas of focus included: Each year a performance evaluation of the Board is undertaken.
strategy and process: In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation is carried out culture: every three years.
The Board and committee evaluation process in decision making and quality of debate: 2016 was externally facilitated by Ffion Hague of Independent Board succession planning: Evaluation, an independent consultant who has no connection with Board composition: and the Company.
The evaluation process is described opposite.
risk management, governance and compliance.
Overall, feedback from the evaluation was very positive.
In particular, Directors identified the Board culture and the high standards of Extensive one-to-one interviews with each Director and governance as a strength.
While some areas for improvement were key stakeholders identified, all Directors viewed the Board as performing effectively and noted that their colleagues were extremely committed to the Company and its future.
Observation of Board and committee meetings Progress against our key actions for 2016 and the 2017 key actions agreed by the Board following discussion of the evaluation results Summary of results presented to the Board for discussion are set out below: Key actions agreed by the Board 2016 key actions 2017 key actions Area of focus Key action Progress Key action Strategy Refine the strategy process to ensure The approach to the strategy meeting was Conduct a deep dive on the bid there is adequate time to debate the restructured: as a result, Directors felt the session process to enhance consistency key issues.
provided adequate time for deep dives, challenge of approach across the divisions.
Major projects and contracts to be An authority to negotiate format has been taken to the Board at the earliest introduced which provides the Board with an initial possible stage.
view of returns on investment prior to the decision-making point.
Risk The internal control system of each The systems in place in each division for managing Continue the programme of deep dive division relating to procurement risk procurement risk have been reviewed by the Audit reviews to assess the robustness and to be reviewed.
consistency of key risk management programmes across the divisions.
Third line of defence in key risk areas The Audit & Risk Committee considered the remit to be reviewed.
Actions arising from of Corporate Audit and aligned the internal audit the divisional risk reviews to be tracked.
plan to the Groups principal risks.
Actions arising from divisional risk reviews are tracked at divisional operational reviews attended by the Chief Executive.
Succession Increase focus on succession planning Additional detail was included in the Boards formal Hold a Board discussion around the Board skills matrix.
planning for the Executive Committee and review of succession planning.
The Executive throughout the Group.
Talent Board, a forum in which executive Directors discuss succession below the Executive Committee, increased its focus on these matters.
Board papers Review the format of the Board pack to ensure it is standardised.
Director evaluation Committee evaluation The individual performance of the Directors was evaluated during Committee evaluations were carried out as part of the Board evaluation the external Board evaluation process described above.
I provided process described above and feedback was provided to committee feedback on the performance of individual Board members during chairmen on the performance of their respective committees.
Following the evaluation, I can confirm that each Director continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and demonstrates commitment to their role.
Feedback on my performance was provided by the Senior Independent Director who took into account the results of the Board evaluation and the views of the other Directors.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Corporate Governance continued Accountability Financial and business reporting When reporting externally, the Board aims to present a fair, together with additional responsibilities of the Directors in respect balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position of the preparation of the annual report, is set out on page 110. and prospects.
During the year, the Board satisfied itself that The auditors report on page 111 includes a statement by Deloitte appropriate assurance processes are in place to enable it to state LLP about their reporting responsibilities.
As set out on page 38, the that this annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Directors are of the opinion that GKNs business is a going concern.
understandable and provides the information necessary for An explanation of how the Board has assessed the prospects of the shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, Company, taking into account its current position and principal risks, business model and strategy.
A statement of this responsibility, can be found on the same page.
Risk management and internal control GKNs enterprise risk management ERM programme facilitates Our risk management and internal control systems and procedures a Group-wide approach to the identification and assessment of are designed to identify, manage and where practicable, reduce and risk.
Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review mitigate the effects of the risks that could adversely affect our business their business risks and to report on whether there has been any objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk, recognising material breakdown in their internal controls.
This formal review that any risk management system can only provide reasonable and not is supplemented by an interim review conducted at the half year.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A description of the ERM programme can be found on pages 40 and 41.
Risk Management Oversight The Board Policies and Fourth line of defence The Executive Committee procedures The Audit & Risk Committee Assurance Independent assurance Internal audit Risk appetite Third line of defence External statutory audit External assurance providers Metrics and KPIs Culture and values Monitoring and compliance Second line of defence Self assessments Group functional reviews Risk reporting Business strategy Risk ownership and control Policies Organisation Incident reporting Delegated authorities First line of defence Risk assessments Procedures Training 68 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our four lines of defence approach to risk management helps us to delegate and coordinate risk management responsibilities and provides assurance that internal control systems and procedures are implemented and operating effectively across the Group.
First line of defence Risk ownership and control Our first line of defence comprises the day-to-day risk management our delegated authority levels which set out the procedures and controls that are implemented and monitored by our businesses.
approval limits for matters requiring authorisation by the Board They ensure that appropriate risk management systems are in place and its committees: to identify, evaluate, and mitigate our business risks.
our enterprise risk management programme which facilitates Key elements of our first line of defence include: a Group-wide approach to the identification and assessment of risk: the GKN Code which clearly defines the behaviours we expect from the development and dissemination of training programmes our employees: to educate employees on relevant topics and reinforce the behaviours expected of them: our Group and supporting divisional policies which set out the minimum standards to be incorporated into our risk management the use of key performance indicators to evaluate and respond and internal control systems: effectively to trends and key indicators of risk: and an independent disclosure hotline which employees can use to report any instances of suspected wrongdoing.
Second line of defence Monitoring and compliance Our second line of defence encompasses central monitoring of the To ensure that the values in the GKN Code are embedded throughout control systems and processes implemented by the businesses to the Group all managers are required to certify annually that they are ensure that they comply with the standards imposed by the Board aware of and understand the behaviours expected of them.
The output from these self-certifications is reviewed by the Executive Our self-certification processes provide guidance to the businesses Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk ESCGR with matters of on the application of our policies and enable them to assess their non-compliance reported to the Executive Committee.
compliance with defined policy requirements and address any issues Our second line of defence also includes ongoing reviews by our that are identified.
Areas in which the businesses are asked to certify health and safety audit team, Group IT, Group Risk and financial their compliance include: control function to check compliance with key requirements in their non-financial controls such as quality certifications, ethical respective fields.
Representatives from these functions report their standards and applicable laws and regulations: findings to the ESCGR or directly to the Executive Committee with serious incidents and material non-compliance being reported to internal financial controls, accounting judgements and the Board.
representations of divisional financial results: key HR controls and procedures: and mandated IT controls.
Third line of defence Independent assurance Our internal audit function provides independent assurance in relation Deloitte, as our statutory auditors, provide independent assurance to the Groups financial risk and has recently expanded its scope to to the Audit & Risk Committee that the financial statements are assess the risk management and internal control systems relating to free from material misstatement.
Assurance is also provided through some of the Groups principal risks.
The function is supported by Ernst other external sources, including customer, regulator and industry & Young LLP and BDO UK LLP who provide co-sourced assistance certification audits.
Fourth line of defence Oversight The Board is responsible for setting the risk appetite of the Group.
Our risk management and internal control processes are regularly We also retain responsibility for maintaining sound risk management reviewed and revised to ensure that they remain relevant to changes and internal control systems and for undertaking an annual review of in the Groups internal and external risk profiles.
Details of the the effectiveness of these systems.
improvements made to these processes during 2016 can be found in the strategic report and in the report on the Groups principal risks on As described in the governance framework on page 64, certain pages 42 to 49. elements of this responsibility are overseen on our behalf by the Executive Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Corporate Governance continued The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal Relations with investors risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten The Board maintains a dialogue with investors with the aim its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
of ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
A description of these risks, together with the details of how they are managed or mitigated, is set out on pages 42 to 49.
Major shareholders Communication with major institutional shareholders is undertaken as part of GKNs investor relations programme, in which non-executive We also have specific controls in place to manage risk in respect Directors are encouraged to participate.
of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
These include: The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have regular meetings with the Groups major shareholders and feedback from the implementation of Group accounting policies and procedures, these meetings is reported to the Board.
In 2016, an investor supported by regular bulletins from the central and divisional perception survey was undertaken with results reported to and finance teams on the application of accounting standards and considered by the Board.
reporting protocols: Group and divisional policies governing the maintenance of Discussion accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director of Investor control procedures: Relations meet regularly with major shareholders to discuss strategy, financial and operating performance.
a proprietary internal control monitoring system, GKN Reporting and Integrity Procedures GRiP, to assess compliance with key financial controls on monthly, quarterly and annual cycles: Feedback Feedback is sought by the Companys brokers to ensure that the monthly operational review meetings which include, as necessary, Groups strategy and performance is being communicated effectively reviews of internal financial reporting issues and financial control and to develop a better understanding of shareholders views.
monitoring: divisional certifications in relation to internal financial controls, Report accounting judgements and representations of divisional This feedback is included in a twice-yearly report to the Board, which financial results: and also provides an update on investor relations activity, highlights ongoing training and development of financial reporting personnel.
changes in holdings of substantial shareholders and reports on share price movements.
Process for review of effectiveness I am responsible for ensuring that all Directors are aware of major The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing shareholders views.
With support from the Company Secretary, control processes.
The actions undertaken by the Committee to I meet with institutional shareholders and investor representatives discharge this responsibility are described in the Audit & Risk to discuss matters relating to governance and strategy, and feed Committees report on pages 74 to 80. back their views to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is also The Board receives an annual report from the Audit & Risk Committee available to discuss issues with shareholders where concerns cannot concerning the operation of the key systems of internal control and be addressed through normal channels of communication.
This report is considered by the Board in forming Richard Parry-Jones, in his capacity as Remuneration Committee its own view on the effectiveness of the systems.
Chairman, also engages in discussion with shareholders on significant matters relating to executive remuneration.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the period covered GKN hosted a number of events for institutional investors in 2016, by this annual report.
It confirms that the processes described which included site visits and presentations.
A recording of the in this report, which accord with the FRC guidance on risk presentations and slide material shown is available on our website.
management, internal control and related financial and business Annual general meeting reporting, have been in place throughout that period and up to the Information regarding the 2017 AGM is given on page 178. date of approval of the annual report.
The Board also confirms that Shareholders who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in relation during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal AGM to the review.
Resolutions for consideration at the AGM are voted on by way of a poll rather than by show of hands to allow the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those cast by proxy.
The results of the poll vote are announced to the London Stock Exchange and published on our website after the meeting.
70 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Compliance statement This corporate governance statement, together with the Nominations Committee report on pages 72 and 73, the Audit & Risk Committee report on pages 74 to 80 and the Directors remuneration report on pages 81 to 106, provide a description of how the main principles of the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied within GKN during 2016.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on its website at www.
It is the Boards view that, throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2016, GKN was in compliance with the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, 2.2 1, 2.3 1, 2.5, 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown on pages 107 to 109.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71
