44 Letter from the Chairman The latest independent external evaluation of the Board shows that we continue to provide the strong and effective leadership Genus needs.
Dear Shareholder In my previous letters, I have noted that strong governance is a business necessity, with a critical influence on the Groups ability to implement its strategy and achieve long-term success.
I am pleased to report that the latest independent external evaluation of the Board shows that we continue to provide the strong and effective leadership Genus needs.
At the same time, we recognise the need to further develop our governance practices.
In the year ahead, we will maintain our focus on strategy, including the competitive landscape: developing our risk agenda in light of our strategy: and succession planning, including diversity and the skills mix on the Board.
This will help us to ensure Genus creates value for all our stakeholders, whether through our high-quality and differentiated offer for customers, rewarding work for our people, support for suppliers and communities, or through growth and returns toshareholders.
Set out opposite are some of the governance highlights of the year.
Moreinformation on each area, and our governance activities more generally, can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 50 to 87.
7 September 2016 Bob Lawson Chairman of the Board Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 45 Our Approach to Reporting Corporate Governance Highlights on Corporate Governance Providing Effective Leadership This year, we have used the key An independent external review of the Boards performance showed Codeprinciples as the framework for our particular strengths in Board culture, strategy, financial reporting, Corporate Governance Report.
The content remuneration and forward planning.
of each section is outlined below.
See page 54 Increasing the Boards Diversity and Experience Leadership The appointment of Lysanne Gray, our first female Non-Executive Director, Includes the composition of the Board adds further relevant experience to the Board, including knowledge of the and its Committees, the Directors roles food industry.
and responsibilities, and the Boards main activities in the year.
See pages 57 to 58 See pages 46 to 53 Maintaining an Independent Board Effectiveness The Board has a large majority of independent Directors, with six Non-Executives including the Chairman and two Executive Directors.
Includes Board induction and training, the outcome of this years external See pages 46 to 47 Board evaluation, progress against the recommendations from the 2015 evaluation, and the Nomination Committees activities in the year.
Ensuring Strategic Oversight The Board held its annual strategy review in January and received regular See page 54 and pages 57 to 58 updates on strategy and business development during the year.
See pages 52 to 53 Accountability Includes an explanation of our risk management and internal controls, Enhancing the Boards Knowledge of the Business andthe Audit Committees activities To give the Board first-hand experience of our business and markets, during the year.
theDirectors spent a week visiting our US operations.
See page 55 and pages 59 to 61 Lysanne Gray underwent a thorough induction, including site visits, workshops, and meetings with Executive Directors, senior management and the auditor Deloitte LLP.
Relations with Shareholders See pages 53 to 54 Includes our investor relations calendar, data on the shareholders we met during the year, and the key themes discussed atinvestor meetings.
Continuing to Comply Genus complied in full with the UK Corporate Governance Code See page 56 theCode except for provision E. 2.3, as the CEO was unable to attend the2015 AGM due to illness.
Remuneration Includes an explanation of our approach Engaging our Shareholders to remuneration, our revised remuneration The Executive Directors met institutional investors owning more than half policy which is being put to shareholders our share capital, including eight of our ten largest shareholders, as well at the AGM, and a report on the Directors as many potential investors.
See page 56 See pages 62 to 85 Genus plc Annual Report 2016
