80 GSK Annual Report 2016 Chairmans Governance statement Under Sir Andrews leadership, GSK has Dear Shareholder successfully developed market-leading I am pleased to present our Corporate positions in Vaccines and Consumer Governance Report for 2016.
These provide excellent The Board remains committed to the highest platforms for sustainable, long-term growth, standards of corporate governance and and we are confident Emma will successfully integrity.
Our governance structure operates build on these strengths and further from the Board across the Group, and we strengthen the Pharmaceuticals business.
believe that it is critical in underpinning our Since her appointment as CEO Designate ability to deliver our strategy and to create in September 2016, and in the run up to long-term value for our shareholders.
assuming the role of CEO on 1 April 2017, Last year, we reported she is focusing completely on the transition.
CEO and executive management She is spending time with Sir Andrew so succession the steps taken to refresh he can share his knowledge and experience Last year, we reported the steps taken to and make key introductions, while also our non-executive refresh our non-executive representation on deepening her understanding of the the Board to address a number of planned representation on the business, especially R&D, Pharmaceuticals retirements.
This year, the Boards primary and Vaccines.
She has also started to meet focus was on executive succession.
The Board to address a with major shareholders to listen to their review of Talent and Leadership Strategy number of planned views on GSK.
She will share her strategic has been an annual item of Board and overview and vision for the Group later in Nominations Committee discussion and retirements.
Details of her induction plan are oversight.
When Sir Andrew Witty indicated, set out on page 91. the Boards primary focus in March 2016, his intention to retire from the Board in early 2017, we were well placed to A further change was made to our executive was on executive accelerate an orderly CEO succession and representation on the Board when Dr transition plan.
The process we followed is succession.
Moncef Slaoui, Chairman, Global Vaccines, described in the report of our Nominations indicated his intention to retire from the Committee on pages 94 to 96.
In addition, Dr Patrick Vallance, President, R&D, has been The Board was unanimous in supporting appointed to the Board.
the appointment of Emma Walmsley, who previously led GSKs Consumer Healthcare I would like to express my gratitude to both business, as our new CEO.
It was felt that Sir Andrew and Moncef for their dedication her leadership skills, history of delivering and service to GSK over the years and their growth and driving performance and fresh professionalism and support in facilitating an thinking made her an ideal choice.
81 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Review of our Board governance Finance Committee: After reviewing the I seek to ensure that everything that we as a arrangements role of our Finance Committee, the Board Board do is guided by our commitment to The Board keeps the functioning of its decided that a specic committee was no our values and to being in compliance with governance framework under regular review.
Its responsibilities have the local laws and regulations within which During the year, it made the following been reassigned to the Board or our Audit we operate.
GSKs Code of Conduct enhancements: & Risk Committee.
Code draws together a number of our key policies that lay the foundations of these Science Committee: The Board decided Culture and values commitments and provides a working guide to establish a Science Committee to look As Chairman, I am responsible for leading for the way in which we apply our values at our science, pipeline and R&D capital and ensuring we have an effective Board.
It is chaired by Dr Jesse I also actively encourage a culture and Goodman, one of our designated scientific environment in the boardroom that facilitates Indeed, the Board felt it was important and Medical Experts, and its members all debate and where our Non-Executive to lead by example and has chosen to have a background in life sciences from Directors are able to provide constructive undertake the same annual training on either a specialist or commercial perspective.
I am pleased to our Code obligations as our employees.
This matter has been under consideration advise that I believe the Board is hardThe latest version of the Code, which was for some time and the timing of its working and engaged, with an appropriate updated and strengthened in April 2016, implementation has been driven by the balance of skills and experience.
The newer is available in the governance area of following considerations: appointees are bringing fresh insights and www.
perspectives to further improve our decision science and innovation underpins each UK Corporate Governance Code making.
Our recent annual Board evaluation of our businesses in Pharmaceuticals, compliance exercise was carried out by the Company Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare: I am pleased to report that we were in full Secretary and centred on identifying further compliance with the requirements of the our R&D organisation continues to deliver performance improvements.
The evaluation Financial Reporting Councils 2014 UK significant innovation for the Group, with outcomes are set out on page 92.
Our 2017 Corporate Governance Code UK Code a number of decisions for potential new Board evaluation will be undertaken by an a copy of the UK Code is available on medicines and vaccines coming up in the independent external Board review www.
The following pages outline next two years.
This Committee can help specialist.
The last such independent our approach to corporate governance.
bring a greater focus to the Boards evaluation was carried out in 2014. deliberations on R&D at a critical phase I commend this report to all of our No less important for myself, in setting the for the company: shareholders.
tone of the organisation from the top, is the Board is looking to further increase its promoting the values-based conduct and scientific capabilities with a search for a behaviours of our people that ow from third scientific and Medical Expert and the Boardroom through every artery of establishing this Committee is in step with the business.
