Introduction to corporate governance Culture and values We recognise that the Groups culture is fundamental to our long term sustainable success.
It will distinguish us from our competitors and is crucial to the achievement of our strategic goals.
Our new vision, attitudes and beliefs will be the drivers for our desired culture.
They will ensure the right behaviours and will govern our interaction with customers, stakeholders and employees.
The Board will play an important role in the leadership and oversight of cultural change and ensuring that our culture, strategy and capability are all aligned in a way that creates value for our business.
Our new vision, attitudes and beliefs, which have been created in collaboration with our employees and stakeholders, put customers at the heart of our business and will support value creation for our key stakeholders, including our shareholders and the wider society.
They will underpin our business model and guide Board behaviours and decision making.
We are at the beginning of a journey of cultural change and the Boards role will continue to evolve as these changes are embedded throughout our business.
The Board will play an important For background on our new vision, which is a world where every journey is taken care of see page 33. role in the leadership and oversight of cultural change Board effectiveness Following the external review of the Board last year, it was agreed that an internal review would be undertaken this year.
This was led by the Group Company Secretary and assessed progress against the actions agreed as part Dear Shareholder of last years evaluation, in addition to discussing some current themes and common areas of boardroom best practice.
As a Board, we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
I am pleased to report that the review this year concluded that the Board continued to function well with good progress having been made in all of In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council FRC published the the areas of improvement identified as part of last years evaluation.
It is latest edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the 2014 Code, evident that the changes we make each year in response to these reviews which included a number of changes around directors remuneration, risk have improved the overall effectiveness of the Board.
We look to continually management and internal control, which we have adopted.
In the report that improve and we will follow up and implement the recommendations from follows on pages 58 to 107 and in the shareholder information on pages the internal review this year, as set out on page 68.
173 to 175, we set out our governance policies and practices and explain how the Group has applied the main principles and complied with the relevant provisions of the 2014 Code.
We also explain some of the specific Risk challenges we faced during the year and how we dealt with them.
The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the risk appetite of the Group and ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are in place.
During the year, we commissioned an independent review of our approach to risk Your Board management which found Go-Aheads risk environment and culture to be The balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the robust, with an intrinsic understanding and management of risk across the committees which support the Board are crucial to the effective functioning Group.
There were a number of recommendations which we have of the Board.
I am very happy with the composition of our Board.
It is strong implemented, and which support the additional risk management and collegiate, in part because its members have relevant and diverse responsibilities placed on the Board as a result of the recent changes to the experience and there is the opportunity for everyone to contribute.
Details of the review process and results can be found on pages have constructive and challenging debate, enabling the Board to make the 41 to 45.
Another new requirement of the 2014 Code is for Boards to best possible decisions.
make an annual viability statement and this can be found on page 41.
In March 2016, we welcomed Patrick Butcher to our Board as Group Chief Financial Officer.
Patrick is an excellent addition to the Board, bringing strong financial and commercial management capabilities as well as significant transport sector and stakeholder experience.
I am confident that Patricks skills will complement those of the longer serving directors and will strengthen the Board.
Andrew Allner, Chairman Details of Patricks appointment and induction process can be found on pages 66 and 81.
8 September 2016 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Go-Ahead complied in full with the provisions of the Code published in September 2014 which applied throughout the financial year ended 2 July 2016.
The Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and is available for review on the FRCs website: http: www.
uk 58 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance at a glance Summary of key Board Summary of key highlights Summary of key priorities objectives set for 2015 16 for 2015 16 for 2016 17 Implement the external Board evaluation Good progress made implementing the Drive culture change and ensure all strategic review recommendations recommendations from the external Board decisions are underpinned by the Groups new evaluation review with improved Board vision, attitudes and beliefs Improve focus in response to rail performance effectiveness as a result and customer experience Continue to build relationships with key More time spent on stakeholder management stakeholders, with a focus on partnership Bid for second tranche of work for the and corporate reputation at Board meetings, with Singaporean bus market Ensure the Groups strategy supports delivering particular focus on GTR, and regular updates value for our customers, employees, shareholders, Continue to monitor progressive dividend policy from senior management stakeholders and the wider society Implement the changes required to comply Successful win of 25 route bus contract Focus on improving performance and customer with the 2014 Code including risk process in Singapore services at GTR and appetite Reviewed the Groups dividend policy, including Bid for third tranche of work for the Singaporean capital allocation and return opportunities bus market Independent review of risk framework, with Continued refinement of dividend and capital enhancements made to support the assessment allocation policy and return to shareholders of risk and risk appetite where appropriate Schedule deep dive reviews into key risk areas For the full list of objectives, highlights progress made and priorities categorised under each of our and continue to develop risk appetite discussions key areas of Board, strategy, contracts, bids and acquisitions, finance and risk and governance, please see pages 64 and 65 and assessment 2016 Composition Attendance Directors attendance at scheduled and unscheduled meetings they were eligible to attend: Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Board attendance Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled Scheduled Unscheduled Total meetings 9 3 4 4 3 2 2 Andrew Allner 9 9 3 3 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 David Brown 9 9 3 3 2 2 2 2 1,2 Patrick Butcher 3 3 2 2 1,3 Keith Down 4 4 Chairman 17% Katherine Innes Ker 9 9 3 3 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 Independent non-executive 4 Nick Horler 9 9 2 3 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 directors 50% Adrian Ewer 9 9 3 3 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 Executive directors 33 % 1.
Members of the executive team attended committee meetings by invitation as appropriate which are not included in the above attendance 2.
Patrick Butcher was appointed to the Board in March 2016 and was therefore eligible to attend three scheduled and two unscheduled Board meetings More information on pages 60 and 61 3.
Keith Down officially resigned from the Board on 6 December 2015 but left the Group on 13 November 2015.
He was therefore eligible to attend four scheduled Board meetings 4.
Nick Horler missed one unscheduled Board meeting called at short notice due to a previously confirmed commitment Responsibility of the Board Contracts, bids and Board Strategy acquisitions Finance Risk and governance Governing the Groups vision, values Setting the long term Approval of material Approval of the Managing a sound and culture strategy, targets and capital projects, Group and Company framework of risk objectives to deliver value investments, financial statements management and internal Approval of the Boards policies and for our customers, acquisitions, and ensuring that the controls and setting the procedures including delegated employees, shareholders franchises and Annual Report is fair, Boards risk appetite authorities and the terms of reference and other stakeholders disposals balanced and of all committees of the Board Approval of the Groups understandable Approval of the corporate Approval of changes key policies, including Reviewing the performance of the plan for the Group and to the Groups Approval of dividend health and safety, Board, its committees and individual individual operating corporate structure policy and corporate social directors on an annual basis companies and constitution recommending responsibility and Determining the remuneration policy dividends payable sustainability Setting and monitoring key Approval of all share for the executive directors and senior performance indicators schemes and share Approval of key Ongoing review of the management buy-back financial policies Groups corporate Oversight and monitoring of Succession planning and appointments programmes including accounting, governance framework the corporate plan and to the Board and senior management fuel hedging, tax and and policies against best against performance strategy treasury policies practice The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
