Governance Governance Letter from the Chairman Strong governance supporting our strategy appointment as Chairman.
All of the Shareholder engagement Non-Executive Directors are considered The Board regards strong engagement by the Board to be independent.
with stakeholders and investors as fundamental to maintaining an active In accordance with the Code, all ongoing dialogue with them and to currentDirectors will stand for election understand their views.
or re-election as applicable at the 2017Annual General Meeting AGM.
Helen Gordon and Vanessa Simms had Baroness Margaret Ford regular meetings with the Companys Chairman Details of the Directors are set out Shareholders and analysts, while I have below, together with a summary of their met with both fund managers and The Directors are committed experience, competences and skills.
corporate governance officers of our toapplying effective corporate major Shareholders throughout the governance and promoting the Diversity year.
Further meetings will also be highest standards.
I am therefore Grainger believes that a diverse heldin advance of the AGM in pleased to introduce this years cultureand perspective is a key factor February2017.
indriving its success, and supports theDavies Reports aspiration to How the Board supports strategy Compliance with the UK Corporate promote greater female representation The Board spent a significant portion Governance Code 2014 the Code on listed company boards.
Whilst all ofits time during the year working The governance rules applicable to all appointments are made on merit, an together to develop the PRS strategy.
UK companies admitted to the Official example of our commitment to diversity On leading this years Board evaluation List of the UK Listing Authority are is that the Company currently has a itwas clear to me that the Directors setout in the Code, published by the female Chairman, Senior Independent feltthat this strategic review was Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Director, Chief Executive and Chief carriedout in a highly effective and Copies ofthe Code can be obtained Financial Officer.
collaborative way with appropriate from theUK FRCs website at www.
The Board fully supports the Wewill continue to look to follow the To learn more about our principles set out inthe Code and procedures recommended by Lord Board Activity see page 48. confirms that it has complied with Davies and by the Code to maintain a allofthe provisions oftheCode balanced and diverse Board.
However, throughout the financial year ended diversity is much wider than gender.
Diversity of thought is also hugely important amongst the Board.
By This report sets out Graingers bringing together Non-Executive governance policies and practices Directors with diverse backgrounds andincludes details of how the Group andexperience, we gain enormously Baroness Margaret Ford applies the principles and complies from varied perspectives across a range Chairman withthe provisions of the Code.
The Nominations Committee 1 December 2016 report contains further details of Composition and independence diversity in our business.
The Board reviews Non-Executive Director independence on an annual Board evaluation basis and takes into account the This year the Company Secretary and individuals professional characteristics, Ihave led the evaluation of the Board.
their behaviour at Board meetings Inaddition, I have reflected on the andtheir contribution to unbiased recommendations and action points andindependent debate.
The Board from last year and the areas to focus agreedthat I was independent on my onfor next year.
Further details are setout below.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43
