Governance continued 38 LEADERSHIP: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW HOW THE BOARD OVERSEES MANAGEMENT AND THE BUSINESS CEO CFO Runs the Companys business.
Ensures future business decisions are grounded in solid financial criteria.
Proposes and develops GVCs strategy and overall commercial objectives in conjunction Provides insight and analysis to support withthe Chairman.
the CEO and senior executive team.
Responsible, with the senior executive team Leads key initiatives in finance that for implementing the decisions of the Board support overall strategic goals.
Funds, enables and executes the strategy Promotes and conducts affairs of GVC set by the CEO.
with the highest standards of integrity, Develops and defines the overall probityand corporate governance.
Manages the leadership team and promotes Presents the organisations progress on thestrategic mission and goals to all employees.
strategic goals to external stakeholders.
E ngages with external stakeholders to explain CHAIRMAN the corporate goals and progress of the business strategy.
Oversees the effective running of the Board.
Ensures that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of GVCs strategy and overall commercial objectives.
Acts as a guardian of the Boards decision-making.
Promotes the highest standards ofintegrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company and particularly at Board level.
SID NED Oversees the effective engagement with the Companys various stakeholders.
As well as performing the normal duties expected Constructively challenges and contributes of an NED the SID also: to the development of strategy.
Is available to shareholders if they have concerns Scrutinises the performance of management which contact through the Chairman, CFO or in meeting agreed goals and objectives and CEO has failed to resolve or for which contact monitors the reporting of performance.
satisfies themselves that financial information is Leads the NEDs in evaluating performance accurate and that both controls and the systems ofthe Chairman, taking into account the of risk management are robust and defensible.
Is responsible for determining appropriate Maintains sufficient contact with shareholders l evels of remuneration of Executive Directors to understand their issues andconcerns.
and has a prime role in succession planning, appointing and where necessary removing Performs such other tasks and responsibilities OVERSIGHT senior management.
as may be contemplated by the code or best practice from time to time.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016 39 39 THE ROLES ON THE BOARD The graphic below illustrates how the Board executes its duties through a structured cascade of responsibilities across the Group.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS: SHAREHOLDERS CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS PARTNERS REGULATORS GOVERNMENTS SPORTS LABELS GAMES LABELS US BUSINESS NON-CORE BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY IMPLEMENTATION OUR EMPLOYEES GUIDANCE AND INSTRUCTION SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM DAY-TO-DAY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE DELEGATION BOARD As can be seen from the diagram above, the division of responsibilities between dividend policy: theChairman and Chief Executive is clearly established and their respective roles Shareholder circulars, convening of shareholder meetings and stock are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
exchange announcements: The Board currently comprises of eight Directors and their biographies are set out approval of the Groups remuneration policy following recommendations from on pages 36 and 37. theRemuneration Committee : The Directors have adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board, approval of the Groups risk management and control framework and the setting out which issues must be referred to the Board for decision.
These can appointment reappointment of the external auditors following recommendations becategorised into a number of key areas including but not limited to: from the Audit Committee : and long-term business plan, strategy, budgets and forecasts: approval of the Groups policies in relation to corporate and social responsibility, restructuring or reorganisation of the Group and material acquisitions health and safety and the environment.
and disposals: In addition, the Board has adopted a delegation of authority mandate which sets out the Groups finance, banking and capital structure arrangements: the levels of authority for the Executive Directors and employees below Board level to follow when managing the Groups business day to day.
approval of capital expenditure and financial guarantees above certain levels: financial reporting interim and annual financial results and interim management statements :
