Letter from the Chairman amajority of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
As such, it is consistent with the principles of the Code and contributes towards good corporate governance.
The Board intends to become fully compliant with the Code by the end of 2017.
The Board has a depth and breadth of experience, skills and knowledge, not only within the industry that the Group operates, but also within complementary industries.
All Directors, especially Non-Executive Directors, provide constructive challenge and insight enabling the Board to operate effectively in the long term interests of all stakeholders.
I am confident that the Board has the experience, skills and knowledge to respond to business Mike Fairey and market challenges that the Company and or the Chairman Group may face for the foreseeable future.
All Directors devote sufficient time to the Company to ensure Dear Shareholders that they discharge their responsibilities effectively.
No one The Board is committed to conducting business Director or group of Directors have unfettered powers of decision or dominate Board decision taking.
The appointment of responsibly and to achieving a high standard of the Independent Non-Executive Directors those not appointed corporate governance.
under shareholder relationship agreements is undertaken under formal and rigorous procedures.
All Directors are This is essential to our reputation and to the continuing provided with a full and thorough induction programme prior support of our shareholders, clients, colleagues and other to, and after, taking office and are provided with opportunities stakeholders.
The Company is subject to the provisions and to update and refresh their skills and knowledge throughout principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the the year.
All Directors, Independent and Non-Independent, Code and the Board believes that the Company has complied are subject to election and annual re-election at every Annual with the principles and spirit of the Code during the year.
The General Meeting by separate resolutions.
Board and Committee Board has established Committees with Terms of Reference in materials of appropriate quality and detail are provided in line with the Code and provide robust challenge and oversight a timely manner to all Directors via a secure online portal.
on matters within their remit.
Directors routinely avail themselves of the chance to interact with senior management outside Board and Committee Upon listing last year the Board recognised that there were meetings.
To ensure that the Board, its Committees and two principles with which the Company had not yet fully Directors operate and function as effectively as possible, complied.
In my Chairmans statement earlier in this Annual theyare subject to a formal and rigorous annual evaluation Report, I noted that the composition of the Board is now fully oftheir performance.
Matters for improvement arising from compliant with the Code requirement in that at least half of the evaluation are agreed andmonitored by the Board.
the Directors, excluding the Chairman, are independent of the Group.
The Board is also pleased that during the year it This Letter, the following Corporate Governance Statement and is well on its way to being representative of its workforce as the Committee reports on pages 56 to 74 explain how the Board well as the world within which the Group operates in terms and its Committees operate and how the Company has complied of gender diversity with the appointment of Alison Burns with the Code during the year ended31December 2016. andTeresa Robson-Capps to the Board as Independent NonExecutive Directors.
The Board is also aware that it is not Code compliant in terms of the composition of the Remuneration Mike Fairey Committee and this is subject to ongoing review.
However, Chairman the Board believes that the independence of this Committee is not compromised as it has an Independent Chairman and 1 March 2017 55
