Governance Report 47 Chairmans Introduction to Governance Bill Whiteley Chairman Dear Shareholder, This section of the Annual Report sets out how we approach governance and the implementation of our principles and compliance with formal governance codes.
The Board is collectively responsible for upholding high standards of corporate governance and this means managing the business effectively and in a way that is honest, transparent and accountable.
This transparency is key to the delivery of the Groups strategy and value creation for our shareholders.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups performance and for overseeing the management of risk, and in 2016 the Group continued to strengthen its risk assessment and risk management processes leading to a revised principal risks and uncertainties register that is specific to the Groups operations and strategy.
This is set out on pages 30 to 34.
As Chairman, it is my role to provide leadership to enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
Such effectiveness is normally evaluated internally and, set out on page 54, is the Boards response to such evaluations.
Annette Kelleher, Chair of the Remuneration Committee reports in her introduction on page 66, on the approach taken to executive remuneration and the work done on revising the Companys Remuneration Policy as well as other work carried out during the year on this high profile topic.
The Board has a responsibility to lead the way and in particular, for ensuring that all employees, and everyone associated with the Group, are aware of their responsibility to act lawfully and conduct themselves in accordance with high standards of business integrity.
Our Code of Business Conduct sets out our standards and is required reading for everyone working for, or on behalf of the Group.
It includes instructions not only on how we expect business to be conducted with the local, national and international supply chain but also on how we interact with the people that we employee and that work within our supply chain, including their human rights see page 39 and their safety see page 39.
I look forward to meeting you at our Annual General Meeting on Thursday 11 May 2017.
Bill Whiteley Chairman 8 March 2017 Image Removable GRP handrail system and galvanized steel flooring at the Doncaster rail depot, designed, supplied and installed by Access Design & Engineering and fabricated by Lionweld Kennedy Flooring Ltd. www.
