CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATEGOVERNANCE Our results are all the more creditable against a background of a significant amount of change at Board level and would not have been possible without Peters strong leadership, the support and dedication of all staff and an enduring governance culture which puts high ethical standards and fair client outcomes at the heart of all we do.
The strength of the Board is enhanced by a strong relationship between the Chairman and CEO.
Peter was appointed permanent CEO on 4 December 2015 following his period as Interim CEO and following a thorough search.
We speak regularly outside of formal Board meetings and are developing a strong relationship which respects our complementary but different roles.
After an extremely thorough search processfor a permanent CFO, Paul Mainwaring joined the Group on 11 July 2016 as CFO designate, replacing Mark Ward as originally planned.
Following regulatory approval, Paul takes up the role on a permanent basis and joins the Board.
With Peter now established as CEO, in 2017 we will focus on executive level succession planning throughout IG.
Further details of changes to the Board can be found in the NominationCommittee section on pages 68 to 69.
As Chairman, my primary role is to provide leadership of the Board and to ensure its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
This year, given the significant amount of change at Board level we once again undertook a questionnaire-based independent In his first year-end Chief Executives statement, Peter external evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
Directors Hetherington reported on another strong set of results and the were encouragedto seek meetings with the external provider drive to generate continuous improvement and value from our on any matter of specific concern.
No such meetings were existing business.
In summary, the review concluded that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively.
More information The Board of Directors iscommitted to maintaining the highest on the evaluation process and its findings can be found on pages standards in the way the Company is directed, governed and 65to 66. managed.
We believe that good quality governance underpins IGs ability to deliver sustainable future growth and long-term No board can operate effectively or efficiently without a cohesive value creation for shareholders.
The executive management and the Board substantially improved our strategy process in 2016, which in turn improved I would like to thank Board colleagues for their continued the quality of the debate.
We will continue to build on these support in ensuring timely, robust and constructive challenge improvements, including changing the timetable of our strategy and debate around the Board table.
Both June Felix, appointed discussions to better support our business planning and risk as a Non-Executive Director on 4 September 2015 and management processes.
Malcolm Le May who was appointed on 10 September 2015 as a Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration The Board supported the introduction of a comprehensive Committee and Senior Independent Director, have brought fresh programme to improve the quality of papers and management perspectives to the already diverse range of thought, skills and information used at Board meetings.
In 2017 we will bed in these experience present on the Board.
improvements and refine them further to support continued improvement in the quality of debate and decision making.
The way the Group has applied all aspects of the UK Corporate Governance Codeis set out in the following Corporate Governance Report.
Andy Green Chairman 56 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
