48 IMI plc Corporate Governance introduction Chairmans Governance letter Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman Strategy and familiarisation Dear Shareholder During the year we dedicated more time as a Board to reviewing the detailed implementation of our strategy, which we reaffirmed Strong governance is of great importance to me and my fellow at our strategy day in September 2016.
We visited two of our directors.
We firmly believe it makes a real difference to Board major facilities in Germany and our largest UK manufacturing effectiveness, underpins a healthy culture and contributes to IMIs operation.
In addition, several of the non-executive directors and sustainable success.
In the Corporate Governance Report on I attended the Group management conference and we have all pages 49 to 54 of this Annual Report, we describe our governance visited sites on an individual basis.
This direct contact with the practices and the workings of the Board and its committees.
Groups businesses is critically important as it accelerates our understanding of IMIs operations and helps us get to know the Compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code wider management team.
It also allows us to see the great work I am pleased to report that IMI complied with the 2014 UK our people do on a daily basis which is clearly evident in the Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year.
operational improvements we are seeing across the Group.
Further details of how we comply with the Code are provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
In keeping with our Strengthening IMI Group-wide focus on continuous improvement, during 2016 the As highlighted in my statement on page 1, through effective Companys Corporate Governance Framework the Governance execution of our strategy we continue to see significant Framework, which incorporates the vital elements of our Board improvements being made across the Group and as a result level governance arrangements, was reviewed and refreshed.
IMI is becoming a stronger company.
Changes to the Governance Framework included updating the remits of each of the Boards committees and refining the matters Progress is being made in all parts of the Group and across all reserved to the Board.
The Governance Framework appears on functions.
In particular, our financial controls have been further the IMI website www.
strengthened and I am pleased to report that the level of control effectiveness across the Group remains high.
Another area Leadership where we have seen good progress is in relation to succession During my second year as Chairman, the various changes made planning, which is key to IMIs long-term success.
As described to the Board and the Executive during 2015 have been bedded in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 28 to 37, in.
Our non-executive directors are making a positive contribution during the year we undertook an extensive review of management and the dialogue with Management is open and transparent.
As a succession planning which involved an assessment of the result we enjoy a good quality of discussion at meetings.
I am pleased with the significant regular contact between formal meetings, I have developed a progress being made towards building a pipeline of high calibre strong working relationship with the Chief Executive and Mark management talent.
and I enjoy frank, constructive and suitably challenging debates.
I enjoy engagement with shareholders and appreciate the support shown by our institutional shareholders.
I look forward to meeting Culture shareholders again at our Annual General Meeting.
In 2014 the Board adopted a clear set of values which flow through all parts of IMI and are reflected in the culture and Yours faithfully behaviours of our people across the Group.
These values, which are key to the delivery of our strategy, inform all our operational Lord Smith of Kelvin processes.
They are also built into our people development Chairman programmes and are assessed bi-annually as part of the staff performance review process.
Further information about our values 23 February 2017 and behaviours is detailed in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 28 to 37.
