56 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Directors have confirmed by way of a statement, on page 103, that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The processes including financial controls and reporting, and risk management, which underpin and support our confidence in making this statement are long-established and embedded into our business.
In addition, our Internal Audit Department reviewed the narrative sections of the Annual Report.
In line with its terms of reference, a subset of the Disclosure Committee also reviews the Annual Report to ensure it contains all necessary disclosures to fairly present the Companys and the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
Our external auditors review the narrative sections of the Annual Report to identify any material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Board members receive drafts of the Annual Report in sufficient time to facilitate their review and input.
We are aware of the Financial Reporting Council report which encourages the Board to address culture, encourage discussion and debate how boards and executive management can steer corporate behaviour to create a culture Your Board manages the Inmarsat that will deliver sustainable good performance.
The Board is very collaborative and collegiate: honest and open debate is in evidence at all Board meetings.
business in a transparent, open The Board and Executive Management Board understand the increasing importance which corporate culture plays in delivering long-term business and and honest manner.
We achieve economic success and this will be an area of focus for the Board.
As mentioned in the Our People section of the Resources and Relationships part of this this by maintaining high standards Annual Report, we identify the work done in 2016 and focus for 2017 as we review our culture and behaviours and how these play into updated values for of corporate governance.
us to operate across our business.
We act with integrity and we see this within our Board discussions, and how this cascades down through the business from The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for all our activities: for the Executive Management Board.
We are very proud of Inmarsats brand and delivering our strategy and financial performance in the long-term interests are focused on protecting its integrity for the future.
of the Company: for efficiently using our resources and having regard to social, As Chairman I am able to call on a broad and diverse range of skills and environmental and ethical matters.
experience from all my Directors.
The blend of experience, nationalities and The Board approves the Groups governance framework with the Board range of cultural experience within the Board is valuable to us as we fulfil our Committees contributing their specialist focus to key areas such as duties to our multiple stakeholders.
The diversity already on our Board allows remuneration policy, internal controls and risk management.
us to be culturally aware and respond where there are areas which need greater focus.
Succession planning for the Non-Executive Directors remains a key Our governance framework reflects the requirements of the UK Corporate focus for the Nominations Committee and the Board.
We have been managing Governance Code the Code and the Large and Medium-sized Companies the retirement of our original Directors who joined the Board in 2005 and and Groups Accounts and Report Amendment Regulations 2013 the 2006 and in support of this Stephen Davidson and Kathleen Flaherty retired Regulations.
We comply with the Code with one exception that I, as Chairman, from the Board in January and March 2017 respectively.
I am immensely was not considered independent on appointment because I was previously an grateful to them for their long support of the Board, our business and to me executive director.
However we have a strong Senior Independent Director, as Chairman.
Philippa Pip McCrostie joined us in September 2016 and Im Dr Abe Peled, who provides additional independence to respond to any delighted that she is contributing so well so quickly.
We will review the size of shareholder queries.
Abe has been Senior Independent Director since the the Board over 2017. retirement of John Rennocks in November 2015.
We hope the information in this Report will help you to understand how your During 2016 and in early 2017 there were changes in Board membership which Board runs the Company, manages risks, monitors internal controls, and how Ive summarised in my opening Chairmans statement on page 5 and also note decisions have been made.
Im pleased to report that the changes in the chairmanship of three of our Committees during 2015, and the running of our new specialist ANDREW SUKAWATY regulatory Committee, are all going well and the three new Chairmen have Chairman adapted well in taking on their additional responsibilities.
8 March 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 57 GOVERNANCE AT WORK This section of the Annual Report shares with you how we operate as a Board BOARD ACTIVITIES IN 2016 and explains the responsibilities we have as Directors to all our stakeholders.
Managed the transition of longer-serving Directors with a new addition We describe the different Board Committees and how they are accountable to the Board for clearly defined responsibilities, each headed by a Non-Executive Director.
Reviewed the Group's strategy to support the change in strategic focus The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance to becoming a digital enabler and it does this whilst being responsible for the overall conduct of the Group's business and by providing leadership and guidance.
Approval of 2016 dividend planning and payments with the introduction of a scrip dividend arrangement Contributed to the Company's direction on cyber security activities and planning for successful take-up of in-flight passenger connectivity services LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS SEE PAGES 65 TO 69 SEE PAGES 70 TO 72 This section provides an overview WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT?
In the Report from the WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT?
of the Board and how it and its Nominations Committee It is important to have strong Having an effective and Committees interlink.
Chairman, we reflect on the leadership from the Board as a contributing Board, with the right elements of how the Board is Details of the type of activity whole to support the executive skills, experience and willingness made up, how we plan to ensure considered by the Board directors and management in to contribute to the Company's success in the future and how do and also some of the core their day-to-day running of culture, is very important to we make sure on an annual basis responsibilities for certain the business.
our success as a company and that we are being held Directors are also explained.
We want all our stakeholders to accountable to each other as As you review the report, the understand the commitment and Board members and also to It is incumbent on the Board to variation of what the Board has passion the Directors have to our stakeholders.
make sure that it is diligent in its to consider is wide-ranging and making the Company a success.
succession planning - at Board reflects the scope of discussions level and also contributing to which occur throughout the year.
what happens at the Executive Management Board level and understanding succession planning across the Company.
ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION SEE PAGES 73 TO 78 SEE PAGES 79 TO 102 Our Audit Committee Chairman WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT?
This section of the corporate WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT?
has now gone through a full governance report provides a Two of our Board Committees Our Remuneration Committee annual cycle and we have a review of what remuneration has have responsibility for oversight carries the responsibility to new Committee member who been paid to Executive Directors of our telecoms regulatory deliver a clear articulation of our joined in September 2016. in 2016 and what is intended requirements and audit reporting.
remuneration policy and consider to be paid in 2017 and how we The work of the Audit Committee this alongside pay increases These are significant areas of operate within an agreed extends and expands as the compared to other employees focus for our business and it is remuneration policy.
number of new auditing and as well as considering other important for stakeholders to governance requirements grows.
It is important know that this is recognised at for stakeholders to understand the highest level in the Company.
how remuneration is determined It is critical to know that there is a and that the appropriate links process of accountability running between remuneration, strategy, throughout the Company with risk and KPIs are made.
good processes in place and defined levels of responsibility.
