ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN experience as a risk professional and so DEAR SHAREHOLDER KEY GOVERNANCE has brought her considerable experience As you will be aware, I will be retiring from ACHIEVEMENTS in this area to her new role, greatly aiding the Board of the Company from the end of the Committee As Chairman I am delighted to have this years Annual General Meeting AGM overseen significant developments in Please see pages 60 to 65 for the report of on 21 July.
During my time as Chairman, your corporate governance.
In my opinion the the Risk Committee Board has been committed to maintaining key achievements over the last six years high standards in the area of corporate Enhancing the disclosures in our have been: governance.
The volume of applicable law Remuneration report.
Following a and regulation in this area has increased Refreshing the composition of the significant number of votes against the significantly over the past few years but Board to include a wider range of skills report in 2015 we have sought feedback this has always been an important area of and backgrounds and to introduce from a number of shareholders and focus for the Board as we have managed appropriate financial services and risk shareholder advisory groups, and the Company in the long term interests management experience have worked hard to improve the level of shareholders.
and clarity of our disclosures in the The establishment of a separate Remuneration report, particularly in To support its governance objectives, the Risk Committee Board has established a system of controls respect of performance requirements for Increased Board focus on engagement Executive Directors and management processes to ensure with shareholders and the expanded that risks to the Groups business can be Please see pages 69 to 93 for the report of programme of shareholder and assessed and managed, and which ensure the Remuneration Committee stakeholder interactions that the necessary financial and human Increasing engagement with shareholders.
The introduction of an induction resources are in place for the Company to Members of the Board have continued process for Non Executive Directors meet its objectives and increase shareholder to meet with shareholders to provide and an increased focus on ongoing value.
We aim to exercise robust supervision updates on the Groups performance training and developments and leadership of the Group while fostering and strategy.
A comprehensive Capital a corporate culture that permits growth and Markets Seminar was held in January empowers our employees.
2016 and was attended by a number of During the year we were pleased to receive shareholders, as well as analysts, banks external recognition of our work in the and other stakeholders governance area, as we received an award Please see page 50 for more details of our from the Institute of Chartered Secretaries shareholder engagement and Administrators ICSA for Best Audit Receiving detailed reports on business and Risk Disclosure in the FTSE250.
The Board is keen to ensure a well respected authority on UK corporate that it has a detailed understanding of governance and compliance, and we were operational areas, and has received a delighted to receive this award.
number of presentations from business Some of our key priorities during the unit heads about their products, markets year were: and operations Increasing our focus on risk management.
Please see pages 46 to 47 for more details During the year, our new CRO took up Formally adopting a long term business his role.
Working with the Executive plan.
Following a specific strategy session Committee and the Risk Committee, JUSTIN DOWLEY for the whole Board in March 2015, a he has reviewed and enhanced the risk CHAIRMAN detailed business plan was drawn up by management and monitoring framework the Executive Committee and debated by for our business, and has considerably the full Board before being adopted enhanced the clarity of reporting to the Risk Committee and the Board in Managing the new Chairman appointment this area.
Also during the year, Kathryn Please see pages 66 to 68 for the report Purves became the Chairman of our of the Nominations Committee for more Risk Committee.
Kathryn has executive details of this appointment 40 41 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS Conducting an internal Board evaluation.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS An external assessment of the Board was due in May 2016 but has been postponed As at 31 March 2016 and at the date of to allow the new Board to be assessed publication, the Board comprised a Non once the new Chairman and new Non Executive Chairman, four independent Executive Director are in place as this is Non Executive Directors and three more likely to provide relevant feedback Executive Directors.
Having duly for the future considered their independence in accordance with the Code, the Board Please see page 49 for more details of considers each of its Non Executive this decision Directors to be independent in character Governance will continue to be an important DEAR SHAREHOLDER and judgement.
They each provide area for the Board following my departure.
effective challenge both at and outside As set out in Justins letter, I have been My successor as Chairman is proposed to be of Board meetings.
The Non Executive proposed to succeed Justin as Chairman Kevin Parry, currently Senior Independent Directors are considered to be of the of the Company.
On behalf of the Board Director: assuming he is re-elected as appropriate calibre and experience to and our shareholders, I would like to thank a Director at our AGM.
Kevin will be bring significant influence to bear on the Justin for his hard work as Chairman, and appointed as Chairman from the end of the Boards decision making process.
in particular the enhanced governance AGM onwards.
I have worked with Kevin structure which he has overseen for the past The Chairman has acted as a Non for a number of years: he has extensive six years.
My aim as Chairman will be to hold Executive Director of Melrose Industries experience in meeting the regulatory the Executive Directors to account to deliver PLC, the National Crime Agency, Novae requirements of the financial services sector Group plc and Scottish Mortgage shareholder value and to meet the high and brings high personal standards to the standards of corporate governance that are Investment Trust PLC during the year.
I am confident that required by the UK Corporate Governance We do not consider these appointments he will be able to direct the Board to meet Code and other applicable regulation.
This is to have any adverse impact on his ability the ongoing regulatory and governance to perform his role as Chairman of the extremely important for the Company as requirements of our business.
a listed PLC and as a regulated financial Board effectively.
I would like to thank you all for your support services company.
Justin Dowley will retire from the Board for the Board during my time as Chairman.
If any shareholder has questions on the work of the Company with effect from the end I am very happy to respond to any questions of the Companys AGM on 21 July 2016. of the Board, I am very happy to respond you may have from now until the end of Subject to approval of his reappointment to these, at the Companys AGM or at any the AGM.
by shareholders, Kevin Parry will succeed Justin as Chairman of the Board.
Kevin Parry is the Senior Independent Justin Dowley Director of Standard Life plc, a Non Kevin Parry Chairman Executive Director of the Nationwide Senior Independent Director 23 May 2016 Building Society and of Daily Mail and 23 May 2016 General Trust plc, and is Chairman of the Homes and Communities Agency.
We do not consider these appointments to have any adverse impact on his ability to perform his role effectively as Chairman of the Board.
Please see the report of the Nominations Committee on page 66 for further details of this change.
