Introduction to corporate governance The Board and its committees operated against a backdrop of challenging regulatory change.
Dan OConnor For more information Chairman on our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code see pages 59-62 Dear shareholder During 2016, the Board and its committees operated against delivery of our strategy in the right way.
Cathryn and the a backdrop of challenging regulatory change, intensified Committee have consulted widely with major shareholders in competition and a market characterised by changing customer developing our new Directors Remuneration Policy and this will behaviour where digital delivery became increasingly important be presented for approval at our 2017 AGM.
All of these featured heavily in Board discussions The Nomination Committee, of which I am the Chairman, and we received regular updates on each, often first hand, from focused during 2016 on the search for a new Chief Financial our Country Managers and their teams in those markets.
In Officer and a new Senior Independent Director, recognising that particular, David Parkinson, Country Manager for Poland and Tony Hales will have served almost 10 years as a director by the Lithuania, and Robert Husband, Country Manager for Mexico, time of our 2017 AGM.
In February 2017, I was delighted to were invited several times during 2016 to give direct reports to the welcome Justin Lockwood to the Board as our new Chief Board: David to discuss plans and progress on addressing the Financial Officer.
Justin, our previous Head of Finance and Interim regulatory changes in Poland, and Robert in respect of the Chief Financial Officer, brings to the Board a wealth of financial performance issues and steps to remedy these in Mexico.
These management experience in the markets in which we operate.
two matters were among our top priorities in 2016.
Effective Board The search for a new Senior Independent Director will continue in oversight has been crucial in supporting management navigate 2017.
In the meantime, the Board asked Tony to continue as a an effective path through these challenges.
director until our AGM in 2018 and I am pleased to say that Regulatory changes in other markets also led to difficult Board he agreed.
This was particularly the case at the start of the year You will find greater detail on the work of the Board and its when we decided to close our business in Slovakia.
The Board committees in the pages that follow.
oversaw the impact of this both financially and on the people affected.
This has been handled professionally by all those involved and the wind down of the business has progressed ahead of expectations.
Dan OConnor The Board was supported in its focus on regulatory challenges by Chairman Richard Moat and the Audit and Risk Committee, who actively monitored and challenged managements response to the regulatory issues they faced.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code The Board also ensured that our evolved strategy was embedded International Personal Finance plc applied the main in the business.
It was clear to us, however, that the effective use principles and complied with the provisions set out in the of technology would be the key enabler to supporting this Code, which was published by the Financial Reporting strategy and delivering our long-term success.
As a Council FRC in September 2014, and which applied consequence, our Transformation for Growth Committee, under throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2016. the stewardship of John Mangelaars, revised its remit to focus on The Code is available on the FRCs website: www.
technology as a whole and become the Technology Committee.
We also have a secondary listing on the Warsaw Stock This led to a revised strategic approach and a focus on Exchange but consider reporting in line with the Code as increasing technological capabilities to enable the Group to our primary obligation in terms of this years Annual Report move to being a data-led organisation where technology can and Financial Statements.
In the context of our strategy, Cathryn Riley and the Remuneration Committee worked hard to review our remuneration arrangements to ensure that they incentivise and support 44
