DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION DEAR SHAREHOLDER IN THIS SECTION In my capacity as Chairman of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 54 Chairmans introduction 31December 2016.
The Board continues to take corporate governance very seriously and believes that good governance is 56 Corporate Governance key to the long-term success of the Group and we shall continue 56 Leadership to pursue the comply or explain approach.
The Board remains committed to improving the governance framework and is well 57 Effectiveness aware of the need to demonstrate to shareholders that the Company is properly governed in order to support the delivery 58 Board of Directors of our strategic and business goals.
62 Accountability COMPLIANCE WITH THE 2014 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE THE CODE 64 Relationship with Shareholders The Company is subject to the principles and provisions of the COMMITTEE REPORTS: Code, which is published by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC.
To demonstrate the Boards proactive approach to 65 Remuneration report corporate governance, the Company has sought to apply the latest update of the Code, released in April 2016 together 'the 81 Audit Committee Codes', in advance of its formal application to our reporting year.
86 Nomination Committee A copy of the Codes are available at www.
88 Other statutory information I am pleased to report that throughout the year ended 31December 2016, the Company has applied the main and 91 Statement of Directors responsibilities supporting principles, and also complied with the provisions, of the Codes, except for provision D. 2.1. for the period 6 March to 20 April 2016.
Following the sudden death of Mark Williams on 6 March 2016, the Remuneration Committee consisted of two independent Non-Executive Directors 'NED'.
The Nomination Committee and the Board evaluated the composition of the Remuneration Committee and Michael Wareing was subsequently appointed as a member on 20 April 2016.
During this brief time no meetings were held and no decisions were taken by the Remuneration Committee.
Following Michael Wareings appointment to the Remuneration Committee, the Company once again complied fully with the Codes for the rest of the year.
CULTURE We believe that boards should give sufficient time not only to managing performance and results, but also to understanding the We continually strive to have high culture and values that underpin the Company.
During the year, the CEO and his Executive Team spent considerable time and standards of corporate governance.
energy on embedding Interteks values within the organisation, and reinforcing the levels of communication and behaviour that are expected of everyone to strengthen accountability and reduce complexity.
More detail can be found in the Strategic report on pages 12 and 13.
Sir David Reid Chairman 54 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION SUCCESSION PLANNING BUSINESS FOCUS My focus continues to be on maintaining a Board that works We continually strive to have high standards of corporate effectively and cohesively under my leadership, with the right governance and the report that follows has been prepared range and balance of skills, expertise and attributes to ensure in order to provide shareholders with a comprehensive the continued growth and success of the Group.
The Nomination understanding of our governance framework and to meet Committee ensures that it is presented with, and considers, a the requirements of the Codes, the Listing Rules and the broad range of candidates for any new Board appointments.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
A fuller explanation of our compliance can also be found on our As announced on 24 February 2016, Edward Astle stepped down website at www.
I hope this provides you with from the Board at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM after more information and gives a greater insight into the discussions serving as a valued member of the Board for more than six years.
held at the Board and its Committee meetings during the year.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his service.
It is with profound sadness that the Board pays tribute to Mark Williams after his death on 6 March 2016.
Mark served as a Non-Executive Director of Intertek since September 2013 and was a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Mark provided invaluable contributions to his fellow Directors and to management, and is greatly missed.
Sir David Reid The Nomination Committee focused on continuing the NED Chairman refreshment programme and on evaluating the composition of the Board and its Committees and the necessary skills required to address the evolving and changing needs of the business.
On 26 May 2016 we welcomed Andrew Martin to the Board as a INTERTEK INNOVATIONS Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee.
He brings wide-ranging experience, including financial knowledge INTERTEK HELPS BRING gained within large international organisations to our Board.
RECYCLABLE COFFEE CUP More information on the role and activity of the Nomination Committee is detailed on pages 86 and 87.
TO MARKET PERFORMANCE EVALUATION At the end of the year the Board and each of the Committees Intertek has supported Frugalpac, a pioneering UK conducted their annual performance evaluation.
In accordance packaging firm, in developing a recyclable coffee with the requirements of the Codes, we undertook an internally cup.
The innovative cup is now being trialled by facilitated assessment.
I am pleased to report that the evaluation some of the worlds major coffee brands.
concluded that each Director is making significant contributions to debate and discussion and that the Board and its Committees Intertek helped in assessing the viability of the operate effectively.
Further details on the outcome of the proposed recyclable cup by conducting and evaluation and its process can be found on pages 61 and 62. managing recycling trials, testing the cups functional performance, and measuring the cups SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT carbon footprint.
Our engagement with shareholders is outlined in the Corporate Governance report on and in the Remuneration report in the As companies develop new innovations, testing, letter from the Chair to the Remuneration Committee on page 65. measuring and proving the environmental impact of a product is becoming increasingly important, both I am interested in hearing the views of our shareholders and to manufacturers and ultimately consumers.
ensuring that the Board takes these into account when considering the strategic direction of the Group.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 55
