Governance Chairmans Governance Statement Chairmans Governance Statement Dear shareholder, I was delighted to be appointed your Chairman in May 2016 and I am particularly pleased that governance at ITV is strong as this is essential In the Governance section to protect shareholders interests and ensure that we can build and This section of the Annual Report contains a statement from your sustain the long-term success of the Company.
Chairman and information about the Directors and Management Board.
It explains our governance structure and corporate The Board continues to work closely with the executive team governance compliance and includes reports from the Audit and and offers support and robust challenge conducted in a spirit of Risk and Remuneration Committees and the Directors Report.
The Board is a relatively small but has talented, high-performing and experienced members who are close to the business.
Over the past few years we have undertaken a continuous evaluation process carefully considering the Boards composition so that there is a balanced and diverse combination of creative, commercial and financial talent and experience enabling the Board to add the right value as the business strategy is executed.
Across ITV, we work to ensure that the diversity of modern society is reflected at all levels of the business including on the Board so that we have an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
Further details about diversity are set out on page 66 and page 99 and further information about the evaluation process is set out on page 66.
I am very pleased that in January this year the Board was unanimous in its decision to appoint Salman Amin as a Non-executive Director.
Salman has considerable expertise and knowledge in marketing, advertising and media planning having worked for S C Johnson, PepsiCo and Procter & Gamble and as such will broaden the Boards perspective of the wider international market.
He is currently undertaking a comprehensive induction programme.
It is our policy to appoint Non-executive Directors for a three-year period and then consider reappointment on an annual basis following a robust performance evaluation.
At the AGM in May 2017 John Ormerod will reach the ninth anniversary of his appointment.
The Board has deliberated carefully and has decided to ask John to continue as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee for an additional year to enable us to ensure an appropriate successor is in place who has sufficient time as a member of the Committee before he steps down.
We are proud of our culture and that our colleagues enjoy working at and are proud to work for ITV and are fully engaged with the business Sir Peter Bazalgette Chairman 58 Governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Andy Haste will be stepping down as Chairman and a member of the Our shareholders are important to us and we remain committed to Remuneration Committee following the AGM in May.
He will remain maintaining regular open dialogue and effective communication with a Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director.
We believe that continued engagement is highly beneficial to all pleased that Mary Harris has agreed to become Chair of the parties as it helps to build a greater understanding of our investors Remuneration Committee, having served on the Committee since views, opinions and concerns.
As a consequence Mary will be looking to reduce some of her existing commitments over the coming months.
As a listed company, ITV is required to report on how it has complied with the principles of governance set out in the Code.
The Board We carefully review Directors other commitments to ensure considers that during 2016 the Company has complied fully with the that they have sufficient time to dedicate to our business.
Details provisions of the Code.
Further information on corporate governance of appointment dates and length of tenure for each director can and a schedule setting out how we comply with the Code can be found be found on page 65.
All Directors are required by the Companys on our website.
Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM www.
com investors governance following their appointment by the Board.
Subsequently, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders as recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
A copy of the Code is available on the FRC website.
uk Our-Work Codes-Standards Corporate-governance ITV is a diverse business and to ensure appropriate governance it is important that we have the right culture with the right people and attitudes that encourages integrity and transparency.
ITV is a talent business and ensuring that we employ great people and allow them creative freedom in the context of tight financial discipline is crucial to our success.
Sir Peter Bazalgette Chairman There are various ways that we as a Board consider and gauge the culture of the business.
We undertake a number of site visits and have 1 March 2017 regular formal and informal meetings and discussions with senior executives and other colleagues across the business.
Since becoming Chairman I have visited the majority of the regional news rooms, our production centres in Salford and Leeds and our businesses in New York and Paris.
In addition, I hold regular round table discussions with colleagues and engage regularly with Senior Executives.
This continues regularly as part of our annual board and committee programme.
This helps the Board understand the cultural strengths and any weaknesses in the business that may need to be addressed with management.
The Audit and Risk Committee also keep compliance with internal control processes under review to help assess behavioural culture across the business.
We are proud of our culture and that our colleagues enjoy working at and are proud to work for ITV and are fully engaged with the business.
This is borne out through rigorous, regular surveys designed to gauge employee morale and attitudes.
In addition, we have a robust process that enables colleagues to speak up if they have any concerns.
We know that colleagues trust this process and are not concerned about using it.
The Board meets regularly for scheduled Board and Committee meetings and has a number of informal meetings to consider specific issues.
Each year we hold a two-day off-site strategy meeting where we consider recent and upcoming changes in our business environment, the risks and impacts of such changes on our business and how we might meet these challenges.
A brief summary of the matters considered by the Board during the year and our focus for 2017 is set out on page 65.
