84 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4.
Governance LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN GOOD GOVERNANCE IS FUNDAMENTAL TO A SUCCESSFUL COMPANY.
WE BELIEVE WE HAVE A GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK THROUGHOUT OUR ORGANISATION WHICH IS WELL EMBEDDED, FITS OUR NEEDS AND IS EFFECTIVE.
THIS HAS HELPED SUPPORT US THROUGH MORE DIFFICULT MARKET CONDITIONS THIS YEAR.
HOWEVER, AS A BOARD, WE RECOGNISE THAT THERE ARE ALWAYS WAYS IN WHICH WE CAN IMPROVE TO MAKE US BETTER ABLE TO DEAL WITH THE CHALLENGES WE FACE.
Tim Stevenson Chairman This section of the annual report describes our corporate Succession Planning, Diversity and Inclusion governance structures and processes and how they have been Thoughtful, strategic and practical succession planning applied throughout the year ended 31st March 2016. is a key driver in maximising our boards effectiveness and an important contributor to our companys long term success.
Strong succession planning, together with refreshing and My Role as Chairman selecting the right individuals for the board from a diverse talent My most important role is to ensure that Johnson Matthey has pool, helps to nurture our culture, sustain our business model a board which works effectively under my leadership, always and deliver our strategy.
We recognise the benefits of bringing mindful of what will work best for our board, for Johnson Matthey greater diversity and inclusion into the boardroom and throughout and for our shareholders.
I believe that our governance our organisation, and I am keen to maintain our good momentum arrangements continue to be right for Johnson Matthey.
We explain our approaches to these fundamental effectively support our strategy and business model and will components of board effectiveness in this report.
enable us to respond to any challenges we may face.
For me, ensuring the right dynamics of the board is vital.
I am pleased to say we have strong contributions and challenge from all our Board and Committee Evaluation directors in an open and constructive atmosphere.
This is in I see open and constructive board and committee evaluation large part created by having a board comprising directors with as fundamental to improving our effectiveness.
After conducting a broad range and balance of skills, expertise and attributes.
an externally facilitated evaluation process last year, I led an As Chairman, I lead the setting of the boards agenda and I pay internal review process this year.
We report in detail on the considerable attention to ensuring we have a plan which allows methodology used and the outcomes.
for appropriate time to discuss all necessary items, particularly the development of strategy and the consideration of risk.
The UK Corporate Governance Code We are reporting in our Corporate Governance Report this year Culture against the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code I recognise a key part of the boards role is to take effective and related guidance.
We report on how we have applied the steps in shaping and embedding a healthy corporate culture Codes main principles and complied with its relevant provisions.
This is fundamental to being able Except in one respect relating to Senior Independent Director to build and grow sound governance behaviours and practices.
contact with major shareholders, Johnson Matthey has complied with all relevant provisions throughout the year ended 31st March 2016 and from that date up to the date Risk Management of approval of this annual report.
Risk management is an important part of our wider discussion of strategy and our business model.
In this report, we aim to demonstrate how our strategy is underpinned by a robust risk management framework.
