Corporate governance overview Governance supporting growth KAZ Minerals corporate governance framework is in place to support the Boards aim of achieving long-term, sustainable growth for shareholders.
Simon Heale Chairman Succession planning is a key area for ensuring the long-term Dear shareholder, successof the Group.
The Succession Management Programme I am delighted to present this overview of the Companys corporate was set up during 2016 with the aim of identifying future managers governance framework.
I am fully committed to good governance in the business, particularly as the major growth projects make and I firmly believe in the benefits that high standards of corporate their transition to steady state operations.
Under the Succession governance bring to the Group.
Management Programme, individuals from across the Group with the potential to fill key positions in the future, are identified and The Directors Report has been prepared in accordance with the given the necessary support and development to enable them September 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code tofulfil their potential.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
During the year, the Company complied fully with the provisions of the Code.
KAZ Minerals corporate governance framework is in place to The Governance Framework report on pages 68 to 83 explains in support the Boards aim of achieving long-term, sustainable growth detail how the Company has applied the principles and complied for shareholders.
The four principal Board committees Audit: with the provisions of the Code and sets out the activities of Health, Safety and Environment: Remuneration: and Nomination the Board and its committees and the matters which they have each deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs and have an considered during the financial year.
important role in internal control and risk management within the Group.
Summary information setting out the roles and In the Corporate Governance Overview in the 2015 Annual responsibilities of each committee and the activities they have Report I reported that, during 2015, the Group had established undertaken during the year is set out in their respective sections its corporate values of safety, long-term efficiency, teamwork, ofthe Governance Framework Report.
During 2016, steps have been taken to embed these values into the business to help drive A new Board committee, the Operations Ramp Up Assurance our corporate culture across the Group.
Training and education in Committee, commenced in early 2017 to oversee the ramp up our values took place during the year and will continue during 2017. of production at Bozshakol and Aktogay, replacing the Projects Internal policies and processes have been updated where necessary Assurance Committee which has completed its role of overseeing to reflect these values.
the delivery of our major growth projects.
I look forward to the successful ramp up of copper production from our new low cost mines, supported by our high standards ofcorporate governance.
Simon Heale Chairman 64 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For more information, see pages 12 Chairmans statement 20 Strategy CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT A GLANCE Highlights from 2016 Priorities for 2017 Our corporate values which were formulated in 2015 The second phase of our Succession Management wererolled out throughout the Group ensuring that Programme will begin with individual development ourcorporate culture is aligned with our strategy and plansbeing designed and implemented.
We will release our Modern Slavery Statement during the The Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee was first half of the year and will continue to raise awareness established to provide independent assurance over technical throughout our operations of the importance of the and operational matters at our new mines.
prevention of modern slavery within our business.
The Succession Management Programme was set up We will update our processes as necessary in accordance withafocus on succession planning, diversity and with the April 2016 edition of the UK Corporate talent management.
Governance Code which will apply to us for the 2017 financial year.
We have put in place our Modern Slavery Action Plan whichincludes our new Suppliers Charter and Code of FairEmployment to demonstrate our commitment to ensuring there is no modern slavery within our organisation.
LIVING OUR VALUES KAZ Minerals corporate values are the principles by which we By upholding these values we will build a strong internal culture, seek to conduct our business.
They guide our decision making improve relationships with our external stakeholders and deliver and how we monitor our performance.
Protect the health and wellbeing Improve competency and skills Safety Professional of all of our employees and contractors Education and training development Protect the safety of the environment Share experience and knowledge with colleagues Anticipate the long-term consequences Honesty in everything that we do Long-term Integrity oftodaysactions Keep promises, admit mistakes efficiency Take responsibility for personal and team goals Teamwork Accept compromise Encourage colleagues Appreciate different perspectives Board committee membership The current membership of the Boards committees is shown in the table below: Health, Safety and Operations Ramp Up Audit Committee Environment Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Assurance Committee Simon Heale Oleg Novachuk Andrew Southam Lynda Armstrong Vladimir Kim Michael Lynch-Bell John MacKenzie Charles Watson Chair of committee Member of committee www.
