Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction As a b oard, we believe that good Phil White Chairman governance will support the deliveryof the Groups strategy.
Effectiveness Kier has grown significantly in recent years, principally as a result of the acquisitions of May Gurney and Mouchel.
It is important that we continue to manage thisgrowth effectively.
We made reasonable progress in most areas of the action plan which we agreed following the 2015 Board evaluation process, as described on page 54.
One of the key areas of focus has been succession planning at Board level and immediately below.
In addition to the appointments of Justin, Adam and Constance, the Board and the Nomination Committee reviewed the pipeline of Dear shareholder, potential future Executive Directors.
This will continue to be As a board, we believe that good governance will support the anarea of focus during the 2017 financial year.
Improvements to delivery of the Groups strategy and is essential to the way in the search, selection and succession planning process for which the business operates on a day-to-day basis.
Some Non-Executive Directors and the process for reviewing executive examples of the Boards governance role are set out on page 47. remuneration, and setting and measuring performance targets, In this part of the Annual Report, we describe governance at were also identified as areas of focus for the year ahead.
Kier, the principal activities of the Board and its committees Accountability throughout the year and how we have complied with the UK The Board understands our responsibility to present a fair, Corporate Governance Code September 2014 edition balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups theCode.
A full version of the Code can be found on the position and prospects in this Annual Report, to assess the Financial Reporting Councils website: http: www.
principal risks facing the Group, to ensure that effective systems People and culture of risk management and internal control are in place and to As members of the Board, we play an important role in setting the provide a statement as to the Groups long-term viability.
The Groups culture, which is in turn supported by the Groups core steps that we have taken during the year to comply with these values.
In doing so, it is important to lead by example: during requirements can be found in this section of the Annual Report.
theyear, as a board, we have continued to manage the Groups Remuneration growth closely, in light of some challenging market conditions.
We were pleased to have received 98.50% of votes in favour It is also important that the Board has appropriate visibility of of our Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM, following 88.52% the business and, during the year, members of the Board have of votes in favour in 2014. visited a number of the Groups sites, which has been useful in During the summer of 2016, we consulted with shareholders with continuing to develop our understanding of the business.
respect to the Executive Directors remuneration for the 2017 Leadership financial year.
We were  for the level of Our Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success engagement and theirpositive feedback.
of the Group, for developing and delivering its strategy and for Our current remuneration policy remains unaltered.
We will establishing a framework of controls to assess and manage risk engage with shareholders next year with respect to a revised effectively.
A summary of the Boards governance framework is policy for approval at the 2017 AGM.
Relations with shareholders It is, therefore, very important that the Board has a range of skills As Chairman, I welcome the opportunity to meet shareholders and experience which challenges, motivates and supports the and my discussions with them during the year on a variety of business.
The skills and experience of the Executive Directors matters have helped me to keep the Board informed about arebalanced by those of the Non-Executive Directors, who bring theirissues and concerns.
significant experience from other organisations and sectors.
Please see pages 52 and 53 for the Directors biographies.
During the year, our Senior Independent Director, Justin Atkinson, met major shareholders to understand their views and our During the year, we appointed Justin Atkinson and Adam Walker Remuneration Committee Chair, Amanda Mellor, also met as Non-Executive Directors and, with effect from 1 July 2016, anumber of shareholders to discuss the proposals for the Constance Baroudel also joined as a Non-Executive Director.
Each of these individuals has settled in well to their role.
In our preliminary results statement, we announced that the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Amanda Mellor, has decided not tostand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 November.
Subject to her election as a Director at the AGM, Constance will take over the role of Chair of the Remuneration Committee from the conclusion of the meeting.
During the year, Richard Bailey also stood down from the Board.
I would like to Phil White thank both Richard and Amanda for their contributions during Chairman of the Board theirtime on the Board.
21 September 2016 46 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 OLD ICONS G NEW ICONS overnance in action Strategic priority The Boards governance role What we achieved in 2016 Operate a safe and The Board, together with the Safety, Oversaw a significant reduction sustainable business Health and Environment Committee, intheGroups reportable accident oversees the framework within which incidence rate AIR from319 to 211.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS the Group manages safety, health Led the culture of visible leadership and environmental risks.
on safety matters, withregular site visits by members of the Board during the year.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Oversaw the effective integration ofMouchels SHE risk management policies andprocedures.
Accelerate growth to be The Board approves the Groups Reviewed progress against Vision a top three player in our strategy, reviews subsequent 2020, witha comprehensive chosen markets progress and makes decisions to reviewconducted inOctober 2015.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS support the delivery ofthis strategy.
Oversaw the effective integration ofMouchel.
Announced the proposed simplification of the Groups OLD ICONS NEW ICONS portfolioto enable greater focus onits principal businesses.
Achieve top quartile performance The Board sets operational Introduced a set of formal key andefficiency andfinancial targets and performance indicators KPIs OLD ICONS NEW ICONS reviewsperformance by the bywhich each business units Groupsbusinesses.
Oversaw the review of central andbusiness overheads to drive efficiency across the Group.
Oversaw a rigorous and disciplinedapproach to working capital management.
Provide sector-leading The Board, via management, Oversaw the introduction of a customerexperience, for oversees thedelivery of services comprehensive client relationship clients and for their customers tocustomers andreviews and management programme.
challenges reports which provide Oversaw the inclusion of customer details of customer feedback.
satisfaction surveys as a KPI to measure business units performance.
Encouraged active measurement of client satisfaction by the business.
Attract and retain The Board, together with the Reviewed managements plan to highly motivated, Nomination Committee, reviews the re-design the Groups HR policies high-performing teams pipeline of potential talent at senior and procedures.
level and challenges management The Nomination Committee toensure that the Group is discussed the Executive Director appropriately resourced.
Discussed appointments to senior positions within the business.
Ensure that the business The Board challenges management Regularly reviewed progress in issupported by investment toensure that the Groups technology relation to the introduction of the intechnology and backand back-office systems are adequate newenterprise resource planning officesystems to support the Groups plans for ERP system.
Approved the creation of a single finance shared services centre.
Reviewed the specific risks relating tocybersecurity, with the input of the ChiefInformation Officer.
47 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
