GOVERNANCE Letter from the Chairman I am delighted to present this years Corporate Governance report.
First, I should like to extend my thanks to John Stewart SIR JOHN KINGMAN for his wise stewardship of the company for over six years.
CHAIRMAN I should also like to thank Rudy Markham for stepping in to provide leadership of the Board over the summer until I took up my appointment in late October.
I am immensely grateful to them both and I intend to continue their work ensuring the highest corporate governance standards, striving to remain at the forefront of best practice.
As Chairman, it is my role to ensure the highest standards of governance are promoted by the Board and that these standards cascade through the group.
As we have seen over recent years, governance best practice continues to evolve and 2016 has been no exception, with the publication of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2016 Code in April, which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016.
We have chosen to comply with the Code earlier than required and so, while we will report against the version of the Code published in 2014 the 2014 Code this year, I am pleased to confirm we also complied with the 2016 Code.
Our approach to governance Corporate governance is part of our way of working and underpins how we conduct our business every day, our culture and our behaviour.
The Boards role is to lead the company and oversee the governance of the group.
It plays a key role in ensuring that the tone for the groups culture and values is set from the top.
The role of management is to deliver the strategy within the framework and standards set by the Board.
At the heart of good governance is our culture: at Legal & General, its not just what we do thats important, its also how we do it.
Our governance framework means we have a robust decision-making process and a clear framework within which decisions can be made.
This is achieved via our delegated authority framework, which ensures that decisions are taken by the right people and at the right level and that there is clear accountability up to the Board.
50 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Through the governance framework, the Board is then able to assess whether were making decisions in the right way, Our governance framework with the right considerations underpinning them.
means we have a robust The Board is supported by the Corporate Governance Committee which considers matters relating to the groups decision-making process and a governance on behalf of the Board.
During the year, the clear framework within which Committee supported the Board in assessing the results of the Board and Committee evaluations, subsidiary board decisions can be made.
composition and analysis of the emerging regulatory Sir John Kingman, governance requirements and best practice.
Chairman Julia Wilson and I have met a range of our shareholders in recent months.
The investor community continues to be a crucial force in shaping corporate governance and, as an investor, LGIM plays a key role in setting the standards for investor stewardship.
As a Board, were mindful of the expectations of our shareholders as well as our wider stakeholder group including regulators, customers, our staff and the wider community.
We place great value on open and constructive two-way dialogue with shareholders, providing them with an opportunity to discuss particular areas of interest or concern as they arise.
Board appointments and succession planning The Board has continued to evolve in 2016 with a number of changes to its composition.
The refreshed membership provides us with further deepening of expertise and a renewed energy to progress our strategy.
I should like to take this opportunity once again to thank the following directors who served on the Board but who retired during the year: Stuart Popham, Olaf Swantee and Lizabeth Zlatkus along with my predecessor, John Stewart.
Their diligent service contributed to the continued good governance of the group and provide an excellent foundation upon which the Board can further build.
Sir John Kingman Chairman LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 51
