Governance Letter from the Chairman Culture and values One of my goals as Chairman is to ensure we continue to build aculture in which our colleagues are empowered, inspired and rewarded to do the right thing for customers.
Our approach toculture and values is led by the Board, where there is a clear emphasis on setting the tone from the top.
This is reflected inthefocus we give in the Board to ensuring every aspect of ourmanagement approach including targets and incentives, organisational structures, values and behaviours helps support the right culture, and is cascaded through our governance structure to every part of the business.
We recognise that everyone is different and a key element to achieving our vision is having a diverse and Dear Shareholders inclusive workforce that reflects the diversity of modern Britain.
I am pleased to present our corporate governance report for 2016.
Diversity and succession planning This report sets out our approach to governance in practice, the The Board has always placed great emphasis on seeking membership work of the Board and includes reports from each of the Boards that reflects diversity in its broadest sense while maintaining the Committees.
necessary levels of skills and experience required to oversee a major The Boards approach, led by me, your Chairman, is to ensure financial institution.
During the year, we reviewed our Board Diversity corporate governance is embedded into the thinking and processes Policy and agreed a specific target to maintain at least three female of the business.
This is vitally important because we believe a Board members and, recognising the emerging target for FTSE commitment to good governance ensures we continually challenge companies to move towards 33per cent female representation, to our assumptions and risks, and underpins the delivery of our take opportunities to increase the number of female Board members strategy to become the best bank for customers and generate over time where that is consistent with other skills and diversity sustainable returns for shareholders.
Board changes The Board also places high emphasis on ensuring the development of diversity in the senior management roles within the Group and There were two changes to the Board in 2016.
Stuart Sinclair joined supports and oversees the Groups objective of achieving 40 per cent the Board in January 2016 and Dyfrig John retired from the Board of senior roles held by female executives by 2020, along with other in May 2016. metrics which promote the engagement of other underrepresented The Board has agreed the following changes to our Board groups within the business.
The role of succession planning in composition.
Anthony Watson, our Senior Independent Director, will promoting diversity is recognised and the Group has a range of retire at the 2017 annual general meeting AGM after serving more policies to help provide mentoring and development opportunities.
than eight years on the Board.
Anita Frew will succeed Anthony as Senior Independent Director.
Anita will combine the role of Senior Corporate governance framework Independent Director with the role of Deputy Chairman, which she has The Board recognises that governance is not static but must adapt to held since May 2014.
Anitas significant board, financial and investment continually changing risks and changes in the regulatory environment.
management experience, including as a Senior Independent Director, The corporate governance arrangements are therefore regularly make her ideally suited to take on this role.
Nick Luff, an independent reviewed to ensure they remain effective.
Non-Executive Director, has notified the Board that in light of his In 2016 we established two further sub-committees of the Board other commitments he does not intend to seek re-election at the 2017 Risk Committee to focus on Financial Markets and IT Resilience & AGM.
Nick will be succeeded as Chairman of the Audit Committee Cyber, in addition to an existing Stress Testing & Recovery Planning by Simon Henry.
Simon has significant financial experience in the UK sub-committee.
The sub-committees were constituted to enable listed environment, retiring as Chief Financial Officer of Royal Dutch members of the Board Risk Committee to dedicate additional time and Shell plc in March 2017.
His background and experience enable him to resource to better understand and to enable fuller review and challenge fulfil the role of Audit Committee Chairman and for SEC purposes the of these risks.
Additionally, a CyberSecurity Advisory Panel was role of Audit Committee financial expert.
Both Anthony and Nick leave established to bring an industry perspective and allow for discussion with our thanks and best wishes for the future.
of the key cyber related activities and threats.
The structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees will continue to be kept under review.
We engage with our shareholders through afullcalendar of Building stakeholder relationships meetings and events, including the AGM and webcasts.
The Understanding our stakeholders concerns supports us in the Board is briefed regularly through the year on both retail delivery of our strategy to become the best bank for customers shareholder and institutional investor issues and concerns.
More asit helps us to focus on what is important.
details of our shareholder relationship programme can be found We define our stakeholders as those who affect and are affected on page 68. by our operations.
In addition to our shareholders, customers and As reported in 2015, we established a board-level Responsible colleagues, they include government, regulatory bodies, Business Committee, underlining the Groups commitment to suppliers and wider society.
The Committee focuses its work Stakeholder engagement takes many different forms, both onthe three areas of People, Businesses and Communities and through formal updates at Board and through more in-formal reports on its first full year of activities on page 79. channels, such as site and branch visits.
You can read more on We have had an independent Stakeholder Panel for a number page 64.
We place great importance on colleague surveys and of years who represent the views of a range ofstakeholders.
customer satisfaction measures, which help inform our decisions and track progress.
52 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OUR CULTURE AND VALUES It is important to define culture in a way that makes it actionable.
This is why we have defined our culture based on behaviours we expect to see from all colleagues in their day-to-day work The Board and senior leaders have a vital role to play in shaping and embedding a healthy corporate culture, and this has been a major focus for the Boards attention over the last year.
As a Group we are clear that our Values of putting customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference together, remain central to the next stage of our cultural evolution.
Our Group Values are core to our strategy and are at the heart of what we do and how we work.
In September 2016 the Chairman and members of the Scottish Widows Board We have established a clear and simple approach to our culture visited the Financial Planning & Retirement Lab in Edinburgh, to learn about that sets out how our purpose of helping Britain prosper and innovative solutions for meeting the evolving needs of customers as they plan for retirement.
our vision of becoming the best bank for customers will be achieved by all colleagues living the Values in everything they do.
We believe it is important to define culture in a way that makes it actionable, so we have described it based on behaviours we expect to see from all colleagues in their Board effectiveness review day-to-day work.
The Board carries out an annual evaluation of its effectiveness.
Having undertaken an external review in 2015, in 2016 this was In 2017 we are embedding these behaviours in our key people conducted internally and was overseen by the Nomination and processes, so our Values will be reinforced across all colleague Governance Committee.
The results of the review are set out on experiences such as recruitment, performance management page 66, together with information about our progress against and career development.
We want to ensure colleagues are the2015 review actions.
empowered, inspired and incentivised to do the right thing for our customers.
Our colleague surveys show continued strong Remuneration engagement and commitment to helping us be the best bank Our approach to reward aims to provide a clear link between for customers.
remuneration and delivery of the Group's key strategic objectives, Governance and oversight supporting the aim of becoming the best bank for customers, We have an effective top-to-bottom governance structure whilstdelivering long-term, superior and sustainable returns to providing active oversight of our Culture, Conduct and shareholders.
This year, we will be seeking shareholder support Customer objectives, which cascades to every part of for anew remuneration policy, which will formally apply, subject thebusiness.
toshareholder approval, from the date oftheAGM in 2017.
We have a Group Customer First Committee to provide Strategy senior level active oversight and governance to upgrade and As well as reviewing progress in implementing the Groups 2015-2017 accelerate our customer focus, embed our target culture and strategic review, the Board spent considerable time in 2016 exploring conduct agenda.
This committee drives our focus on culture the challenges arising from the rapidly emerging digital environment.
and has encouraged the creation of a culture dashboard, to There were several meetings which focused on Group strategy, enable us to monitor our progress.
Colleague feedback is including a two day offsite which debated the transformation required combined alongside regular metrics to provide a view that to be 'Bank of the Future' in order to underpin continued competitive istruly representative.
This will provide the backdrop to the next phase of our The Group Executive Committee, the Responsible Business strategic development, on which we will report later this year.
Committee and the Board receive regular updates on progress.
The announcement in December 2016 that we had agreed to acquire The culture dashboard is also shared with the Board to ensure MBNA is a significant step which reinforces our ability to deliver further opportunity for oversight.
During the June Board sustainable growth whilst helping Britain prosper.
strategy offsite, the Group Chief Executive led the presentation Looking forward to 2017, our corporate governance priorities will of a 'deep dive' session on culture, providing the Board with an becompleting the Groups strategic review and ensuring we are opportunity to offer feedback on our cultureplans.
equipped to deliver the key programmes: implementing the actions from the 2016 Board Effectiveness Review: and taking forward the necessary changes to implement our ring-fencing preparations.
Managing extensive change while maintaining high levels of current performance and managing continually changing risks is an immensely challenging task.
I would like to thank the Board and allour colleagues for their tremendous support and commitment throughout the year in meeting these challenges.
