Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Chairmans Introduction Our governance framework supports thedelivery of our strategic priorities andhelps to protect the interests of all ourstakeholders.
Roger Devlin Chairman member of the Remuneration Committee following Neils retirement.
Dear Shareholder Catherine Glickman will take over as Chair of the Remuneration Our aim is to make Marstons The Place to Be for our people, our Committee from the same date.
During his eight-and-a-half years with customers and our shareholders and we believe that good governance is the business, Neil has provided valuable insight and wise counsel to a fundamental part of that journey.
Our governance framework, set out the Board.
The Board and I thank him for his significant contribution.
on the following pages, supports the delivery of our strategic priorities Further details on the Boards composition are given on page 36. and helps to protect the interests of all our stakeholders.
The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code has applied Remuneration policy throughout the reporting period under review and I am pleased to During the year, the Remuneration Committee has been focused on the confirm that the Board considers it has fully complied with the main review of the Remuneration Policy, last put to shareholders at the 2014 principles of the Code.
The Committee believes that the current remuneration framework continues to be effective in supporting the delivery of our strategic This review, together with the reports from each of the Nomination, objectives.
As such, only minor changes are recommended to the policy Audit and Remuneration Committees, provides an overview of our key to ensure it is aligned with best practice and provides sufficient flexibility governance activities and practices during the period.
to support succession planning and potential changes to business needs Board effectiveness over the coming three years.
The revised policy is discussed in detail in This year our Board evaluation was externally facilitated by Independent the Remuneration Committees report, on pages 47 to 56 and will be Audit, a corporate governance consultancy.
During the evaluation period, presented to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Independent Audit reviewed Board meeting packs, observed a full Board Audit meeting and held individual meetings with each member of the Board Following the commencement of the new internal audit co-source and other senior executives.
Their report was presented to and discussed provision by Grant Thornton, as reported in last years Annual Report, in detail at our October Board meeting and the outputs from that report the Audit Committee has focused on the development of the internal are set out on page 41.
The Board is focused on the need to review and audit strategy and key deliverables from the internal audit plan for the continue to develop its effectiveness, in order to support the Group in year.
As previously reported, the external audit partner is next due to its ambitions.
Progress against the outcomes of last years internally rotate after the 2017 reporting period and the Company will conduct a facilitated evaluation are also reported on page 41.
Profiles of each full tender of the external audit at that time.
Given the length of their Director, together with information on their experience relevant to the tenure,  PwC will not be invited to tender.
Group, are set out on pages 38 to 39.
Further details are provided in the Audit Committee Report on pages 45 Board and Committee succession to 46.
We reported last year that Neil Goulden, our Senior Independent Director, had confirmed his intention to retire from the Board with effect from the Annual General Meeting AGM in January 2017.
In view of this, Roger Devlin the Nomination Committee considered the key roles affected by this Chairman and, in September this year, announced that Carolyn Bradley would assume the role of Senior Independent Director and also become a 24 November 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement The version of the Corporate Governance Code applicable to the current reporting period is the September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
Marstons PLC was compliant with all relevant provisions of the Code during the reporting period under review.
Governance Report We have used the key themes of the Code to structure this report: 1.
Shareholder Relations See page 36 See page 41 See page 42 See page 47 See page 43 35
