30 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW O Ou ur approach to succession has enhanced our ability t to r o eplace and develop responsibilities quickly and s se eamlessly, and improved our ability to react to both planned and unplanned changes.
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN During the year the Board has placed much the associated key business risks and their Nominations Committee to work carefully focus on operational delivery, succession management.
We have sought to provide and systematically on his succession.
The insight into the scope of the Boards Leadership, culture and good governance following pages provide insight into these activities, discussions and resulting actions are essential considerations for our Board activities alongside the Boards discussions on pages 36 and 37 of this report.
as it seeks to build a business that can and governance processes.
Much thought has been given to our risk deliver sustainable performance and An open and balanced review of our appetite resulting in the agreement of an organisation t for the longer term.
business performance has been covered a formal set of Group level statements, Steve has outlined on page 06 to 08 the earlier on pages 02 to 29.
As highlighted, as discussed on page 48.
We have also importance of customer focus, clarity, although we made headway against a spent time considering management of our simplicity, and better ways of working number of the priorities we set ourselves cyber and business continuity risks, these to deliver on improved operational at the start of the year, our performance in will remain key items on the Board agenda.
Clothing & Home and International remains As the business looks at how it can work unsatisfactory, despite the signi cant SUCCESSION PLANNING AND CULTURE more eff ectively, the Board recognises eff ort from the teams in these areas of This year has been particularly intensive the role it can play in demonstrating the business.
The last two years have seen for both the Board and the Nomination leadership and tone from the top.
a signi cant improvement in our clothing Committee relating to succession gross margin, delivered through improved Following our Board evaluation last year, planning and culture, assessing the design capabilities, smarter buying, a more we set out to articulate our Board culture executive, non-executive and senior exible supply base and growth in our with an internal framework to identify how succession pipeline, and identifying what international reach.
However, we recognise we wanted to work as a Board and how skills are needed to support our strategy that we have more work to do to deliver we wished to operate and behave as and business for the long-term.
sustained performance in Clothing & Home a team.
This has helped us to re ect not Board and senior management succession and International.
These will both be key just on what we do but the way we do it.
has been a regular feature of our Board areas of focus for the year ahead.
Furthermore, it aligns the Board with M&Ss and Committee discussion over the last internal performance management to A key area of Board discussion and five years, with development and continued ensure that values and behaviours are challenge this year centered on improving assessment forming a key agenda item.
integral to our corporate DNA.
the performance and risk management So, when Marc Bolland raised his potential of our website and the Castle Donington retirement with the Board, the Nomination THIS REPORTS KEY FEATURES distribution centre.
The Board was pleased Committee was well prepared to ensure Over the next few pages we look at our with the signi cant improvement in the a careful and systematic transition.
This Board members, the role of the Board, its operations of these over the critical process along with further detail on performance and its oversight.
Better process the activities of the Nomination and an overview of the process undertaken to management and controls, and extensive Remuneration Committees are provided ensure CEO succession and provide insight testing by the team leading up to on pages 40 to 41 and 50 to 71 respectively.
into diff ering induction programmes.
the intensive peak trading period, was In reaching its conclusion to appoint a critical factor in this success.
This focus Following feedback on our 2015 report, Steve Rowe as Chief Executive CEO, on delivering an improved customer we again provide detail on the activities the Committee followed a rigorous experience has underpinned a strong and discussions undertaken during the year assessment, development and selection performance from M&S.
com and delivered by sharing some of the actions arising from process, including external benchmarking.
those discussions and the progress against The Board was unanimous in supporting them.
Given the timing of the change in Our balance sheet remains strong and Steves appointment in the light of his leadership, certain discussions pertaining we are delivering well against our free considerable knowledge of the business to future strategy and Board evaluation cash ow targets, even after returning and its people, his appetite to continue were undertaken subsequent to year-end.
451.7m to shareholders, via dividend the process of change, his perceptive and In the interest of transparency, to align with payments and the share buyback.
eff ective problem solving, his values and his previous years and provide clarity to the During the year the Board also discussed its observed leadership.
The Board is grateful reader, these have also been included in strategic priorities, operational delivery and to Marc for his planning, enabling the the table on pages 36 and 37.
31 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 GOVERNANCE KEY FEATURES Governance at M&S is an important element Where information would previously have been Attendance The directors have all of our Board environment.
It feeds into how we located within the Directors Report, and has attended an acceptable level of Board do business, how we serve our customers and instead been incorporated into the Strategic and Committee meetings.
It therefore needs to be Report, a list of page references is available Compliance The composition of all Board authentic and meaningful.
within the Other Disclosures section on page 73.
Committees complies with the application recommendations of the Code.
In line with previous years, we have used the Every year we review and benchmark our key themes of the UK Corporate Governance governance framework against best practice.
Experience Throughout 2015 16, the Audit Code as the framework for articulating the The framework sets out the roles, accountabilities Committee chairman met the speci c Boards activities during the year: and expectations for our directors and our requirements with regard to recent and structures.
This format has been adopted widely relevant financial experience.
Leadership and Eff ectiveness are on pages across the business and can be viewed at 32 to 41 Tenure We changed our auditor in 2014 15, marksandspencer.
Accountability on pages 27 to 29 within the GOVERNANCE PROFILE Strategic Report and pages 42 to 48 in the Non-audit policy We have a policy for the award Independence Over half of our Board is made up Directors Report of non-audit work performed by our auditor, of independent non-executive directors, in line which is disclosed on our website, and we have Stakeholder engagement and relations with with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
disclosed the limited non-audit work undertaken.
shareholders on page 49 Senior Independent Director Our Senior Auditor appointment We disclose our external Remuneration on pages 50 to 71 Independent Director is Vindi Banga.
Additionally, information on the Governance Accountability and election We have clear Internal Audit Details on the Internal Audit of our Pension Scheme is provided on page 72. separation of duties between Chairman and function are provided within this report.
CEO roles, and require all the directors to stand The required governance and regulatory Performance-related pay A signi cant part for re-election annually.
assurances are provided throughout this of our performance-related pay is delivered Directors Report in a way that re ects their Evaluation An internally facilitated performance through shares.
As in previous years, evaluation of the Board and its Committees Reward Our reward framework is simple and we have sought to provide insight as to how was undertaken during the year.
An external transparent and is designed to support and governance supports and protects the M&S evaluation will be undertaken next year.
business and our stakeholders in a practical way.
We also provide insight relating to director: notable non-underlying items impacting of Martha Lane Fox, who stepped down this years performance.
Information on the as a non-executive director on 2 April, Independence Maintaining the right activities of the Committee can be found after nearly nine years on the Board.
balance of independence on the Board: on pages 42 to 46 of this report.
Andrew, Helen and Richard all undertook Eff ectiveness The review this year was In supporting talent and future leadership comprehensive inductions into the internally facilitated.
We update on the for the business, the Remuneration business.
Detail on Andrews induction output and the action plan for the year programme is provided on page 38, Committee has reviewed our remuneration ahead on page 39: and an overview of Helens and Richards framework, to ensure it remains relevant to Ongoing development Business was provided in last years report.
the business, and continued to develop and training, engagement and mentoring.
test the setting and disclosure of objectives These appointments bring new energy, and targets.
The Committees activities, challenge and oversight to the Board.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE considerations and a summary of our Their additional skills and experience build Remuneration Policy, are on pages 50 to 71. on our existing talent and will stand us in The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 good stead for the year ahead.
the Code is the standard against which we APPOINTMENTS AND BOARD CHANGES were required to measure ourselves in 2015 16.
We continue to drive the agenda of We made a number of changes to the A copy of the Code is available from the diversity in its broadest sense across the Financial Reporting Councils website.
On 1 April 2015, we business, and are proud to have built a welcomed Helen Weir as Chief Finance We are pleased to con rm that we complied workforce that is diverse in terms of gender, with all of the provisions set out in the Code Offi cer.
She has brought considerable experience, ethnicity, age and levels of for the period under review.
financial challenge to our processes, data physical ability.
Further insight is provided and key performance metrics and has built A summary of our governance pro le, outlining on page 41 and in our Plan A Report.
our compliance with key areas of the Code, a strong team to support the business.
We hope this report demonstrates how In April 2015 Richard Solomons joined the our governance helps us test whether To keep this report interesting and engaging, Board as Non-Executive Director.
As the we continue to focus on the key insights from we are doing the right things in the right CEO of Intercontinental Hotels Group, the business: however, further detail on how way, with the right safeguards, checks he brings considerable knowledge of we comply with the Code can be found in our and balances, and whether the right Corporate Governance Statement, available at operating an international, multi-channel considerations underpin the decisions we marksandspencer.
Furthermore, we report with honesty, In July 2015, John Dixon, Executive Director integrity and transparency to ensure our stakeholders receive a fair and balanced of GM, resigned from the Board.
Given his BOARD OVERSIGHT AND MONITORING success in running Food for three years, view of the business in which they invest.
We have highlighted our risks and risk Steve Rowe was appointed to the role.
We approach the year ahead with management process on pages 27 to 29. con dence in our leadership and business In December 2015 we were delighted to While the Board is responsible for these, the and as outlined on pages 06 to 08, our appoint Andrew Fisher as a non-executive Audit Committee has played a key role in focus will be on performance and delivery director: he brings considerable experience ensuring that the appropriate governance of our strategic priorities.
of digital services, consumer insight and and challenge around risk and assurance international context to the M&S Board.
is embedded throughout the business.
His appointment followed a review of It has been closely monitoring the the Board experience and skills.
The management of our cyber risk, health and Nomination Committee set a clear search safety and business continuity of our UK speci cation which focused on digital and and international operations, and has consumer experience.
This appointment undertaken a thorough review of the was part of our planning for the retirement ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
