STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 53 Corporate governance report non-executive at US businesses Exelon Corporation and Brady Corporation, as well as holding several non-profit advisory roles.
Nancys appointment enables the Board to retain critical US and engineering experience.
Nancys experience in the fast-moving automotive industry is also important for Meggitt with our current focus on accelerating the operational performance of the Group.
Effectiveness During 2016, we carried out an externally facilitated Board evaluation.
Overall the evaluation was positive, but further details can be found later in this report.
Accountability In 2016, the Audit Committee discussed the 2015 viability Chairmans introduction statement process and confirmed that it was appropriate to Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2016 and to retain the same process for the 2016 viability statement.
The the date of this report, we have complied with the provisions set impact of the UKs vote to leave the European Union was taken out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code into account in the assessment of viability.
A description of the published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Group process and the resulting statement is set out in the Risk has applied all the main and supporting principles set out in the management report pages 28 to 33.
That report also includes Code and explanations are included in this report and in the our annual confirmations on risk management and internal AuditCommittee, Nominations Committee and the Directors control.
The information required under During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the changes Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 is located in being made to the Code which were published by the FRC in 2016 the Directors report.
and are effective for the financial year commencing 1 January The Board is committed to maintaining the high standards of 2017 the 2016 Code.
The Committee also reviewed the FRCs corporate governance, which are fundamental to discharging our Guidance on Audit Committees.
The Audit Committee was responsibilities.
It is my responsibility to ensure that Meggitt is satisfied that we comply with the 2016 Code, and has considered governed and managed in the best interests of shareholders and the Guidance on Audit Committees.
This includes encouraging open discussion The Committee intends to put the external audit for the financial and constructive challenge.
In this report, we set out our year ending 31 December 2018 out to tender and to commence governance framework and explain how sound and effective that process in 2017.
At the end of the year, the Committee corporate governance practices support our strategy to create considered and agreed an audit tender timetable which indicates sustainable shareholder value over the long term.
that the tender process will commence in 2017 after our half year Leadership results are released, and finish before the end of the year.
As part of the planned and continued evolution of the Board, The Board has confirmed that this Annual Report is fair, there have been a number of Board changes in 2016.
You can find an explanation of the 1December 2016, Tony Wood was appointed as Chief Operating process we have used to make this determination on page 61.
Tony has significant business and operational experience in the aerospace industry, most recently at Rolls-Royce plc Remuneration where he held a number of senior management positions during At our AGM in 2016, shareholders approved our Directors a 16-year career, latterly as President, Aerospace.
We are due to present our Remuneration to Stephen Young, Chief Executive and was also appointed to the Policy for approval at the 2017 AGM, as it has been three years Board of Directors as an Executive Director effective 1 December since our Policy was approved in 2014.
Tony has a specific focus on accelerating the operational report pages 66 to 88 provides details of our proposed Policy performance of the Group.
and a detailed review of the Remuneration Committees activities, and bonus and share scheme performance in 2016.
We also announced in December that Brenda Reichelderfer Prior to submitting the Policy to shareholders for approval, we would retire from her position as Non-Executive Director on have consulted with our major shareholders.
As a result of this 27April 2017, immediately prior to the AGM.
Brenda has brought consultation, we have decided to i introduce a two year postsignificant US, engineering and operational experience from the vesting holding period into our Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP : aerospace industry to the Board and her independent advice and ii change the ROTA performance target in our LTIP to ROCE for counsel since her appointment in 2011 has been invaluable.
Both changes are applicable for awards behalf of the Board, I would like to extend our sincere thanks to made after the approval of the new Policy.
Brenda for the excellent contribution she has made to the Board and to wish her all the best for the future.
The Board has agreed to appoint Nancy Gioia to the Board of Directors and as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees immediately before the AGM on 27April 2017 with her due for first election by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Nancy, a US citizen and an electrical engineer, joined Sir Nigel Rudd Ford Motor Company in 1982 and worked there until 2014 in a Chairman of the Board of Directors number of senior roles across engineering and manufacturing 27 February 2017 operations.
Retired for just over two years, Nancy is currently a
