Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive Chairmans introduction The board of Micro Focus International plc is committed Externally facilitated performance evaluation During the year we completed an externally facilitated evaluation to delivering outstanding shareholder returns and process undertaken by JCA Group.
The process is described in believes this is underpinned by high standards of detailon page 52.
I have received feedback from all of the directors corporate governance and a strong corporate confirming that the process has been extremely valuable to the board.
To support this framework, The results have been reviewed and a number of improvement theboard has established and embedded procedures areas prioritized for 2016 17. and processes throughout the whole Group.
Board meetings and strategy sessions During the financial year ended 30 April 2016, the key board During the year, two board meetings were held at overseas sites, achievements were: which enabled our non-executive directors to meet and engage with local management teams to help them better understand our local operations.
The meetings were held at our SUSE headquarters Shareholder engagement in Nuremberg, Germany and at our site in Seattle, US.
Every year As discussed on pages 7 to 8 extensive shareholder engagement inSeptember, an extended board meeting is devoted to reviewing hasresulted in significant new additions to the register and 30% aspects of the Groups strategy and operation in more detail.
ofourshares now being held in North America.
Thestrategy sessions are an important and valuable part of theGroups continued development.
The Companys market capitalization at 30 April 2016 was 3,496.5m and the Micro Focus shareholders prior to the acquisition of TAG who now own approximately 56.8% of the company have seen their investment increase from 1,178.6m to 1,986.1m over a period of 19 months.
During that period they Kevin Loosemore have also received a Return of Value of 83.9m and ordinary Executive Chairman dividends of $78.0m.
13 July 2016 Integration of the TAG business The Company acquired TAG in November 2014 and since then we have been working hard to ensure shareholders realize the benefits of the acquisition.
The key achievements over the last year have been the delivery of financial results in line with management expectations and the establishment of the two separate product portfolios, Micro Focus and SUSE.
Talent development and succession planning In December 2015, the Company announced that I will continue asExecutive Chairman until at least April 2018.
In order to ensure appropriate continuity of leadership and continued focus on performance, Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann became CEO of Micro Focus and CEO of SUSE respectively, effective from 1 February 2016, and joined the board.
Following these changes and changes to the non-executives covered on page 8, I believe that the board continues tobewell balanced, with a broad range of skills and a good understanding of the market in which we operate and the challenges which we face.
