Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Chairmans introduction to Governance Dear fellow shareholder Following the externally facilitated review of the Boards effectiveness last year, for 2016 we carried out an internal review.
It gives me great pleasure to update you on our progress in corporate governance over the past year.
The remainder of this report contains the narrative reporting required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Listing Rules and the One of the key roles for the Board of Directors at Mitchells & Butlers Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
I hope that you find this is to provide leadership for more than 44,000 employees and maintain report to be informative and helpful in relation to this important topic.
the highest possible standards of corporate governance.
The Board continues to monitor developments in corporate governance and We are committed to maintaining an active dialogue with all our reporting regulations.
The Strategic report on pages 2 to 35 includes shareholders, and we continue to offer our institutional investors access the Groups strategy, progress and performance for the year.
to key senior management and our Investor Relations team via our Investor Roadshow programme.
I would like to encourage shareholders We were delighted to welcome four new Directors on to the Board to attend our Annual General Meeting, details of which are set out in the during the year.
Phil Urban was appointed as Chief Executive on separate Notice of AGM sent out with this Annual Report.
The use of our 27 September 2015, bringing with him industry experience and a proven Retail Support Centre in Birmingham as a venue for our AGM has proved track record of operational delivery, and we are confident that he will to be a success as well as a cost saving and so we intend to use the build on the progress made over the past few years.
same facility for the 2017 AGM and we look forward to welcoming you, Josh Levy joined the Board as a nominated Director of Piedmont Inc. where I hope you will take the opportunity of meeting our Executive and on 13 November 2015, in place of Douglas McMahon who stepped Non-Executive Board Directors.
Subsequently, on 29 February 2016 we were I look forward to the year ahead, confident in the knowledge that the delighted to appoint Dave Coplin as an independent Non-Executive Company is led by a highly competent, professional and motivated team.
Dave is an acknowledged expert on the usage of technology I also look forward to the support of you, our shareholders, as our senior and provides strategic advice and guidance around the role and management team continues to focus on driving future profit growth and optimisation of technology, both inside and outside of the world of work.
Finally, we welcomed Keith Browne to our Board on 22 September 2016, as a representative of Elpida Group Limited, a significant shareholder in Mitchells & Butlers.
Mr Browne is a chartered accountant and previously Bob Ivell worked at KPMG Corporate Finance before retiring, now operating as Chairman an independent consultant.
We look forward to working with our new Directors on matters affecting the Group and our diverse group of Non-Executive Directors continue to bring much experience and challenge to the Board.
My focus continues to be on maintaining a strong team, with a broad range of professional backgrounds and skills to drive further improvements where possible.
One of the key roles for the Board of Directors at Mitchells & Butlers is to provide leadership for more than 44,000 employees and maintain the highest possible standards of corporate governance.
37 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
