Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance The Board is responsible to shareholders and other stakeholders for the groups activities and its long-term success.
The value of good governance is recognised by the Board as an area of great importance and, in this governance report, we explain how the main principles of good governance are applied across the group.
We also describe how the governance framework implements the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Key areas of governance that have been reviewed in the year include: Ethics, compliance and code of conduct During the year we continued to focus on embedding our ethical business framework and, specifically, ensuring the requirements of our code of conduct One Code were understood and being followed.
We strengthened awareness of One Code through the introduction of a summary version distributed to employees as part of our induction pack, and a supplier version, to make sure our values and expected behaviours are fully communicated and understood by our supply chain.
Compliance with the Code One Code can be found on our website at www.
I can confirm on behalf of the Board that the group has complied in all In addition, our Speak Up whistle-blowing service continued to operate and was respects with all of the principles and widely communicated as part of our One Code promotion programme.
relevant provisions set out in the Board composition September 2014 edition of the Code As a Board, we are keen to ensure that a balance of views is available and that throughout the year.
Details of how the right decisions are taken.
Our Board comprises directors with a breadth of we have applied the principles and professional and sector experience from various backgrounds.
As a result we have complied with the provisions are a balanced Board with the right range of skills and experience to contribute to and, explained throughout the report.
The where appropriate, challenge decision making.
Code can be found on the Financial During the year there were a number of changes to the Board composition.
Reporting Council website at Crawford Gillies retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting AGM www.
The September 2014 in July 2015 and David Jenkins retired from the Board in December 2015, having edition of the Code included a number stepped down as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit of changes regarding directors Committee at the AGM.
Mark Reckitt was appointed as a Non-Executive Director remuneration, risk management and of Mitie with effect from 1 July 2015.
Larry Hirst, who has been a Non-Executive control, which we have adopted.
One Director for the past five years, was appointed Senior Independent Director and Mark Reckitt as Chairman of the Audit Committee, in each case upon David of the new requirements of the Code stepping down.
is for the Board to explain how it has assessed the prospects of the The Board retains a focus on diversity and takes into consideration the diverse Company, taking account of the demographic of the groups employee population.
Mities female population Companys current position and accounts for 46% of employees, and its disclosed BME population for 20% of employees.
principal risks referred to as the annual viability statement, which Remuneration Policy review can be found in the Strategic report During 2015 the review of the executive remuneration policy was completed and a on page 61. revised policy designed to operate for three years was presented and approved by the groups shareholders at the AGM in July 2015.
The Board considers that throughout Further details are provided in the Directors remuneration report which can be the year sufficient time has been spent found on pages 76 to 94. reviewing and discussing strategy, risk, financial performance, investor Roger Matthews communication and engagement, and Chairman key matters of governance both at the Board and the committee meetings.
An overview of the activities and the effectiveness of each of our Board committees is explained further on pages 65 to 77.
64 64 Mitie Gr Mitie Group plc | oup plc | Annual Annual R Report eport and and A Ac cc counts 2016 ounts 2016
