Chairmans Introduction to Governance The composition of the Board continues to be appropriate to the Groups requirements with the right diversity of experience and technical expertise to support the strategic and operational direction of the Group.
Our governance As a Board of Directors we aim to establish a governance structure which provides effective control and oversight of the business whilst at the same time promoting the entrepreneurial spirit which has been central to the Groups success in striving to help every household make the most of their money.
In our Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 45, we aim to provide a clear and meaningful explanation of how we as a Board lead the Group and discharge our governance duties, including how we apply the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It also outlines the governance initiatives we have undertaken during the year.
Our statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out on page 45.
Leadership The composition of the Board continues to be appropriate to the Groups requirements with the right diversity of experience and technical expertise to support the strategic and Bruce Carnegie-Brown operational direction of the Group.
In October 2016 we Chairman announced the appointment of our new Chief Executive Officer, Mark Lewis, who joins the Group as an Executive Director on 13 March 2017.
There will be a period of handover before Mark is appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 10 April 2017.
Peter Plumb leaves the Group at the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Mark has a successful track record of leading fast growing digital businesses with strong customer satisfaction, trust and values scores.
His experience Key areas of focus and values are aligned with our goal of helping our customers in 2016: save money on their household bills.
u We continued to devote more time On conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting, Rob to planning and reviewing the content Rowley, our Senior Independent Director, will step down from of the Annual Report, ensuring it is fair, the Board as a Non-Executive Director and will be succeeded balanced and understandable and in line as Senior Independent Director by Sally James.
Sally will remain with best governance practice: Chairman of the Risk Committee and a member of the Audit, u We held deep-dives to cover a specific Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
We intend to strategic priority at each meeting.
This appoint an additional Non-Executive Director during 2017 to included deep-dives into each of replace Rob Rowley.
MoneySuperMarket, MoneySavingExpert and TravelSupermarket, key risks and The membership of the Board Committees was reviewed controls, cyber security, data strategy, during 2016 to ensure the Committees continue to operate MoneySavingExperts Credit Club and effectively and have the skills required to support the innovation in mobile and apps, including increasing complexity of the Group.
The current membership the MoneySuperMarket GO app: of each of the Committees is set out in each of the Committee u We continued to enhance our effectiveness reports on pages 46, 52, 54 and 72.
Sally James, Chairman of by: the Risk Committee, is a member of each of the Committees to ensure that risk is appropriately considered in each w enhancing our suite of risk management Committee.
policies: w consulting with shareholders on our new Remuneration Policy: and w carrying out separate effectiveness reviews of each Committee to identify how to improve the effectiveness of each of our Committees.
36 36 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Finan inanc ci ial al S St tat ate em me ent nts s Succession planning and diversity Committee Chairs We recognise that in order to maintain an effective and diverse Board, it is essential to plan for the future and to ensure the right individuals are appointed to the Board from a diverse pool of talent.
We consider our Board to be diverse in terms of the background, skills and experience which each individual brings to the Board.
All future appointments will continue to be based on merit.
More detail on the work of the Nomination Committee and on our diversity policy can be found in our Nomination Committee Report on pages 52 to 53.
Details of the proportion of women on the Board, in senior leadership positions and within the whole organisation can be found on page 33 of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Robin Freestone Bruce Carnegie-Brown Audit Committee Nomination Committee Board effectiveness During 2016 we conducted an internal evaluation of the Board, the Committees and each of the Directors.
The evaluation process involved the completion of questionnaires and interviews by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, followed by a round table Board discussion, including a review of progress against actions from the 2015 evaluation.
More information on the process and the key action areas can be found on page 43.
We will conduct an external evaluation in 2017 and have appointed SCT Consultants to undertake that evaluation.
Sally James Andrew Fisher Ethics and governance Risk Committee Remuneration Committee There is a strong relationship between ethics and good governance.
We remain committed to operating ethically, demonstrating integrity Board tenure and acting responsibly in our undertakings with our customers, our shareholders and our wider stakeholders.
During 2016 we revised Rob Rowley our Code of Conduct, incorporating additional guidance for Peter Plumb employees and ensuring each employee completed an e-learning Bruce Carnegie-Brown module on the revised Code of Conduct.
Further information on Sally James ethics and social responsibility is contained in our Corporate Matthew Price Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 35.
Genevieve Shore Board operation Andrew Fisher We continue to operate a clear line of distinction between Robin Freestone management, led by the Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible Years 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 10 for the day to day running of the business, and the Board, acting under my leadership, which provides constructive challenge to Board composition management ensuring an open culture of debate that creates and preserves value for our shareholders.
During 2017 and beyond, I will ensure that the Board continues to operate in a constructive and open manner, with honesty and Percentage Gender integrity as its core principles.
12.5% 75% 25% 25% Bruce Carnegie-Brown 62.5% Chairman 27 February 2017 Chair Male Executive Directors Female Non-Executive Directors Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 37
