OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS Dear Shareholder This year, the Board has continued to evolve with the aim of ensuring it aligns with the Companys strategic and governance needs.
I am pleased to report to you on the Boards development and activities and on some of the significant governance matters that the Board has considered during the year as follows: Renewed focus on safety, environment and health matters, as well as on the objectives and targets for this key area, with regular updates on safety and environmental operational performance and initiatives undertaken to raise awareness of safety and improve safety culture globally.
For example, on gas safety, this included reviewing the outcomes of global surveys, associated action plans and a gas safety initiative.
Support to the Executive Committee on the implementation of the execution priorities arising from the strategic review.
At its meetings in June and July 2016, the Board received dedicated presentations on, and had discussions with management representing, each of the global business units.
In relation to these execution priorities, the Board agendas also included focused sessions on talent, technology, sales effectiveness and the external impacts on the Company such as competitors and changes in key customers across the global business units, together with the macro-economic environment.
Selection and appointment of Helen Bunch and Laurence Mulliez as non-executive Directors, both having joined during 2016.
With these appointments, progress has been made in ensuring that future refreshment will be planned to ensure continuity of knowledge and experience.
Oversight of the induction of Helen Bunch and Laurence Mulliez to ensure their integration and rapid and effective contribution, with a focus on increasing their knowledge of the Group and its markets.
Oversight of the induction of Peter Turner following his appointment as Chief Financial Officer in April 2016, and the continued induction of Pete Raby, who was appointed in August 2015 as Chief Executive Officer.
Collectively, the Board has focused on providing support to Peter and Pete as necessary, together with several newly appointed members of senior management, such as the Head of Internal Audit, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Human Resources Director, all of whom are external appointments.
Visits to different sites alongside scheduled Board meetings which afforded Directors a close insight into our businesses and enabled them to meet local management and to hear more on market trends, product development, innovation and operations.
In March 2016, the Board visited sites in China relating to the Companys Seals and Bearings, Technical Ceramics and Thermal Ceramics businesses and also a customer site.
The Board meeting in September 2016 was held at the Technical Ceramics site in Stourport, UK and included a tour of operations and of the Structural Ceramics Centre of Excellence.
In November 2016, the Board meeting was held at the Advanced Ceramics and Metals site in Rugby, UK and again included a site tour.
Review of the outputs from the Board performance evaluation which provided a number of useful insights into the Board and its Committees on potential areas for improvement.
These are explained further below under the section Performance evaluation.
Support to the Audit Committees review of internal controls and risk management processes, which is described in more detail in the Report of the Audit Committee.
Review of how previously approved capital expenditure projects were implemented and any lessons learned, including operational and financial performance against plan, so as to promote sound decision-making in relation to future proposals.
2017 will be another progressive year when we will look to further enhance our effectiveness as a Board in line with the strategic direction and governance aspirations of the Group.
ANDREW SHILSTON CHAIRMAN ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS
