Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance Leadership The role and effectiveness of the Board is essential to a Sir John Armitt CBE successfully run company and the way in which we operate Chairman isset out on the following pages.
We have a strong cast of Directors with a broad range of sector and function experience across different geographies and in the key areas of transport and digital technology a balance that results in effective collective decision making.
As announced in January, after twoand a half successful years as Group Finance Director andas part of his career development with the Group, Matthew Ashley will be moving to become President and Chief Executive Officer for North America.
Matthew will take up this operational role from 1September 2017 and will remain on the Board as anExecutive Director.
To fill the Group Finance Director role as aresult of this move, I am delighted that Chris Davies will be joining the Board as an Executive Director following our AGM on10 May 2017.
Chris brings significant international and strategic experience that will benefit the Company as we continue our growth strategy.
i Dear fellow Shareholder Read more p60 In this section of the Annual Report, we describe governance Effectiveness atNational Express, the principal activities of the Board and National Express continues to evolve and expand geographically itsCommittees and how we have complied with the principles through pursuing business opportunities in new markets and ofthe September 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance through its programme of bolt-on acquisitions in North America Code the Code which applied to the Company for the whole asdescribed in the Strategic Report.
The Board recognises of the financial year ended 31 December 2016. thatmanaging such growth effectively requires clear oversight by an effective Board.
This years evaluation of the effectiveness Culture of the Board and its Committees identified the main areas for The Board believes that effective governance is essential to continued focus and development for the year ahead being a protecting shareholder value and the sustainable growth of review of the Executive pipeline and succession planning, theGroup.
Strong governance is also a foundation stone for greater diversity on the Board and bringing more external ahealthy corporate culture of values, attitudes and behaviours viewpoints to the Board.
demonstrated by a company, not only within its operations, i butalso in its relations with its stakeholders and the wider Read more p66 community and environment which are affected by the Companys conduct.
As a Board, we recognise that the Accountability The Board recognises its responsibility to present a fair, correcttone needs to be set from the top with the Directors leading by example to ensure that good standards of behaviour balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects in this Annual Report, to assess the permeate throughout all levels of the National Express Group.
The way we live and breathe our culture can be seen by the principal risks of the Group, to ensure that effective systems ofrisk management and internal control are in place and to wayin which our Values are becoming increasingly embedded across all our businesses and how they underpin our business provide a statement as to the Groups long-term viability.
The actions that we have taken during the year to comply with these model and strategy of delivering long-term shareholder value.
requirements can be found in this section of the Annual Report.
i Read more p22 i Read more p75 58 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Relations with shareholders The Board recognises and values the importance of We recognise that the correct tone maintaininghealthy and open communications with our shareholders to ensure mutual understanding of the Groups needs to be set from top with the strategy, objectives, governance and performance.
The Board Directors leading by example to receives regular investor reports which detail the feedback frominvestor meetings.
This helps inform Board discussion ensure that good standards of onthe views of investors and analysts on strategy.
behaviour permeate throughout all i Read more p84 levels of the National Express Group.
Remuneration We were pleased to have received 98.30% of votes in favour of our Remuneration Report at the 2016 AGM.
Whilst our current remuneration policy will continue for its final year during 2017, one of the Remuneration Committees principal areas of focus Compliance with the UK for this year will be to review the existing policy and engage with CorporateGovernance Code shareholders to consider the changes required to ensure that The Governance Report set out below, together with the our remuneration framework continues to support and drive the Directors Remuneration Report, is designed to provide delivery of our strategic vision.
The resulting revised policy will shareholders with a summary of the Groups governance be put forward for approval at the 2018 AGM.
policies and practices and an explanation of how the Company has applied the main principles of the UK i Read more p86 Corporate Governance Code the Code that was published in 2014 bythe Financial Reporting Council Annual General Meeting andwhich applied to the Company for the whole of the This year, our Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.00pm on financial year ended 31 December 2016.
The Directors Wednesday, 10 May 2017, once again in Hall 9 at the International believe that the Company has complied with the Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA.
I would provisions set out in the Code during 2016 as described encourage you to attend and meet me and the Board.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
Sir John Armitt CBE Chairman 23 February 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 59
