com stock code: NTG Chairmans introduction to governance Significant changes made to the Code in 2014 have applied to the Group for the first time this year.
This has facilitated a comprehensive review of how we approach risk management.
andrew page I Chairman bob mackenzie I Chairman Dear Shareholder, Board changes At Northgate we recognise the vital role that governance plays I am delighted to welcome Claire Miles and Bill Spencer to the in delivering the best outcomes for all stakeholders in the Board as new non-executive Directors.
Our system of risk management and internal control with them a wealth of commercial and Board experience and is underpinned by our core values of professionalism, team continue to broaden the skills base of the Board.
work and can-do attitude which are espoused by our 2,900 I am also pleased to welcome Paddy Gallagher to the Board as staff.
Paddy brings with him significant cross Significant changes made to the Code in 2014 have appliedsector public company experience and he has already made a to the Group for the first time this year.
This has facilitated a valuable contribution towards the development of the Group.
comprehensive review of how we approach risk management.
Board evaluation We have overseen Directorate changes as well as undertaking During the year an external evaluation of Board effectiveness a formal evaluation of the Boards own performance.
I am pleased to report that this review also transitioned to a new external auditor.
concluded that Board governance is in good repair.
A number of UK Corporate Governance Code areas were identified where we can improve further.
These have The 2014 update to the Code became effective in the been discussed and prioritised by the Board and will be a key current year.
This has facilitated a review of our approach area of focus going forward.
and disclosure of risk management.
We have provided an Change in auditor overview of our risk governance processes in the Managing The shareholders approved the appointment of PwC as risk report on pages 38 to 42.
This report explains the Boards statutory auditor during the AGM in September.
The risk appetite statement was approved by has been managed smoothly and their audit report can be the Board during the year and is reviewed by the Audit and seen on page 79.
Further details of the work performed by this committed is outlined on pages 61 to 63.
Good governance is a cornerstone of our business and the disciplines and practices that contribute to this are well The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of understood by the Northgate team.
the Code throughout the year, with the exception of provision C. 3.1 which requires the Audit Committee to consist of at Andrew Page least three members.
The membership of this committee was Chairman increased from two to three following the appointment of 27 June 2016 Claire Miles in November 2015, therefore the Group was fully compliant with the Code as at the date of this report.
