GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 54 55 Introduction to governance Governance structure BOARD Executive Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Directors Committee Committee Committee Executive Internal Committee Audit Responsibilities Board 2016 key activities: | Redefinition of the Groups strategy The Board has overall responsibility for: | Determining the strategy and values of the Group and ensuring long | Conducted a review of the Groups risk term success for the benefit of all stakeholders: management processes | Ensuring that adequate resources are available so that strategic | Overseeing the appointment of two new objectives may be achieved through the annual planning process and non-executive Directors ongoing monitoring: | Appointment of a new Group Finance | Ensuring that the Companys internal control systems both financial and Director operational are fit for purpose and operating as they should be: | Reporting to and relationships with shareholders: | Compliance with laws and regulations and good corporate governance: 2017 key focus: | Dividend policy: | Overseeing the strategic development of the Group | Treasury policy: | Acting upon recommendations of the | Insurance policy: external Board effectiveness review | Major capital expenditure: | Embedding the recommendations of the | Acquisitions and disposals: external risk management review into the | Board structure: and Group | Remuneration policy.
| Ensuring that the Group follows recommendations made following the external review of cyber risk 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG Introduction to governance CONTINUED Executive Directors New UK executive team Executive Directors are responsible for: Facilitating the restructuring of the UK executive | Ensuring the Group strategy is executed effectively via the Executive management team, including the appointment Committee: of a UK Managing Director.
| Monitoring Group performance: | Managing the Groups financial affairs: and | Implementation and review of the system of internal control.
Executive Committee Sharing best practice The Executive Committee is responsible for: The Committee was formed during the year, replacing direct reporting of operating segment | Executing Group strategy and policies: management to the executive Directors.
The | Considering operational business issues: Committee meets once a month and facilitates | Reviewing risk reporting and taking necessary actions: and best practice across the Group.
The Committee comprises the executive Directors and senior management from each territory.
Audit and Risk Committee New auditors The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for: After a formal tender process PwC were appointed as our external auditor at our AGM in | Monitoring the integrity of financial reporting and reviewing the September 2015.
Groups risk management systems on behalf of the Board, including reviewing the work of Group Internal Audit: Risk review | Overseeing the statutory audit process: The Committee commissioned external Recommending appointments to the Board: reviews of the Groups approach to risk management and cyber security during the Monitoring independence and objectivity, including monitoring year and will oversee the implementation of the auditor rotation and developing policy on non-audit services recommendations made.
provided: Approving auditor remuneration and terms of engagement: and Overseeing the audit tender process, if applicable: and | All aspects of Group risk.
Further information on the work of the Audit and Risk Committee is detailed in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 61 to 63.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE 56 57 Remuneration Committee New Director remuneration The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: During the year the Committee determined the remuneration to be awarded to the newly | Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy appointed Group Finance Director.
for the Board and other executives, excluding non-executive Director remuneration.
Non-executive Director remuneration is decided by the Chairman and the executive Directors: | Determining and annually reviewing the remuneration policy and employee benefits structure for all employees throughout the Group: | Reviewing the design and outcome of any share incentive plans put in place: and | Determining the scope of Group pension arrangements.
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 64 to 74.
Nominations Committee Three new appointments The Nominations Committee is responsible for: During the year the Nominations Committee approved the appointment of two new non- | Reviewing the structure, size, skills and experience of the Board and executive Directors and a new Group Finance making recommendations regarding any changes: Director.
| Considering succession planning for Directors and other senior executives: and It also oversaw new appointments in the roles of Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
| Making recommendations to the Board for candidates to fill Board vacancies when they arise, normally using the services of professional consultants in the search.
The full terms of reference of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees can be found on the Groups corporate website.
