Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 69 Chairmans overview Remuneration Committee to allow us to fully comply with the common interpretation of Provision D. 2.1. of theCode.
In addition to complying with applicable corporate governance requirements in the UK, the Company also complies with the rules of the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange KASE because of its listing on that exchange.
In 2016, the Company was awarded theKASE Drive for Transparency annual prize at the Invest Show2016 in Almaty.
The prize was awarded to Nostrum for itstransparency record and commitment to its shareholders andIthink it reflects our continued commitment to achieving excellence in corporate governance.
We have continued to monitor our performance as a Board and complied with Provision B.
6.2 of the Code in 2016 byundertaking our first externally facilitated Board selfevaluation, using Independent Audit Limiteds online Dear shareholder assessment service Thinking Board.
This was a very useful 2016 has been another challenging year commercially for and informative process for the Board and key results of the Nostrum but your Board has remained committed to the evaluation can be found on page 77.
The Nomination and highest standards of stewardship and governance.
Governance Committee will be focusing on the key action items from the evaluation during 2017.
During the coming This year has seen some significant changes in the year we intend to conduct an internal Board self-evaluation, composition of the Board.
In September, Jan-Ru Muller stood the results of which will hopefully allow us to determine the down as Chief Financial Officer and having given due and impact the composition changes made in 2016 have had careful consideration to the skills, knowledge and experience onthe Board and the way directors perceive how the Board on the Board and the needs of the business as a whole, it was functions and its overall effectiveness.
agreed that Jan-Rus successor would be recruited from within our own internal pool of talent.
Following this decision, Tom We reported last year that we had created a new Executive Richardson, who had previously served as Head of Corporate Committee comprised of senior officers of the Group.
In 2016, Finance for five years, was appointed as Chief Financial Officer we continued with our internal reorganisation with the aim and as a director.
Tom brings with him a wealth of financial and ofmoving from an  organisation to a sector knowledge and an overall understanding of Nostrums functional organisation.
As part of this process, it was decided business and strategy.
that the Executive Committee would be renamed the Senior Management Team and the composition would be changed Furthermore, on 18 November 2016 we announced that somewhat.
The Senior Management Team now comprises aspart of the Boards gender diversity focus for 2016, Eike von Kai-Uwe Kessel, Tom Richardson, Thomas Hartnett, Heinz der Linden, the longest serving independent non-executive 1 Wendel, Sergey Khafizov and Berik Brekeshev.
The Senior director, would stand down as a director effective Management Team has been formed with the same goals 31December 2016.
Mark Martin was appointed senior asthe Executive Committee, namely to better align the goals independent director in Eikes stead and we are pleased to and objectives of each business function and to simplify the welcome Kaat Van Hecke to the Board as an independent way in which we manage our business.
The biographies of non-executive director.
Kaat has also joined the Remuneration each member of the Senior Management Team can be found and Nomination and Governance Committees.
In addition, Atul on page 73 and further details regarding how the Senior Gupta has succeeded Eike as chairman of the Audit Committee Management Team works can be found on pages 74-75. and Mark Martin became amember of the Audit Committee.
In 2017, we will continue to review and develop our corporate These changes reflect the considerable amount of work that governance practices to ensure full compliance with regulatory has been undertaken to assess the skills, knowledge and requirements and to promote the success and sustainability diversity of the Board and its committees.
However, the Board ofour ongoing efforts to achieve excellence in corporate recognises that further work is still needed to ensure that we governance during the year ahead.
have a robust plan for the future succession needs of the business and this will be a key focus of the Nomination and Governance Committee and the Board as a whole for 2017.
As set out in more detail on pages 80-85, we continue to comply with almost all of the UK Corporate Governance Code as we consider such compliance important to support our business.
Frank Monstrey InMarch 2015, in response to feedback from shareholders and Chairman investor groups that only independent non-executive directors 1 Mr Brekeshev resigned as Chief Commercial Officer on 13 January 2017.
Arkadi should be appointed as members of the Remuneration Epifanov has assumed Mr Brekeshevs responsibilities on a temporary basis until Committee, Piet Everaert stepped down as amember of the a suitable successor is appointed.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
