Governance Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 15.
Chairmans Governance Introduction 46 On 18 November 2016 we announced some Dear Shareholder, changes to the Board.
Firstly, the appointment On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Lord Rose of Emma Lloyd as Non-Executive Director with Ocados Statement of Corporate Governance for effect from 1 December 2016.
Emma brings to Chairman 2016. the Board significant experience in technology As I have reported in previous years, the and strategic partnerships, at a time when the entrepreneurial behaviour at Ocado underpins Group is positioning itself to grow the platform the growth of our business and enables the business.
In addition, Robert Gorrie will step down Company to lead the online grocery retail market.
from the position of Non-Executive Director with Importantly, this is supported by the Groups effect from the AGM on 3 May 2017.
Robert Gorrie robust governance framework and its values.
has made a very significant contribution to the The Board takes overall responsibility for the Board during almost 17 years of service, first as an The Groups governance and culture.
When discussing Executive Director and then as a Non-Executive reports from management and functions such as Director and he leaves with our sincere thanks entrepreneurial Internal Audit & Risk the Board looks for alignment and best wishes.
These recent Board changes between the Groups culture and values and follow the appointment of Andrew Harrison in behaviour at the behaviours shown by employees and other early 2016.
Andrew has significant experience Ocado underpins stakeholders.
in the technology and retail sectors and with establishing international ventures, which should the growth of Leadership and Board provide valuable insight as the Group pursues Effectiveness partnerships with overseas retailers.
David Grigson our business...
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership retired from the position of Senior Independent supported by the to the Company and oversees the strategy of the Director in May 2016, having made a significant Group, as well as having overall responsibility for contribution to the Board since 2010.
Further Groups robust the Groups performance, creating accountability, details are set out in the report on the activities and managing risks that face the Group.
As of the Nomination Committee found on pages 64 governance the business grows and meets new challenges and 65. and opportunities, the smooth operation framework and its Accountability and Risk of the Board is key.
We are mindful that it is The Board periodically discusses risk management values.
important for the Board to be composed of those and the principal risks facing the Group.
The personnel that are best placed to provide the Audit Committee has played an important role appropriate constructive debate on the Groups in monitoring the Groups risk and assurance strategic direction with a diverse range of skills systems, including in relation to strategically and experiences which collectively are both important projects such as the new CFCs.
The Audit complementary and directly relevant to Ocados Committee reviewed the reporting framework on strategy.
This years annual Board performance controls being used by the business, including for review was facilitated externally and provided a the Ocado Smart Platform, which was an important good opportunity for the Board to take an in depth step both for the retail business and in readiness for look at its effectiveness and composition.
slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Governance 47 Remuneration and Engagement with Shareholders Our Executive Director remuneration arrangements are designed to incentivise and support the achievement of our business objectives and sustain long-term value for shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee oversees the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy and this year has made a number of minor changes to it in order to further align it with best practice from a corporate governance perspective and with shareholder expectations.
The Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 3 May 2017.
The new 2017 Policy retains its emphasis on long-term incentives, aims to reward achievement of core financial objectives and outstanding growth in the value of the Group relative to the FTSE 100 over the longer term.
Further detail and the new 2017 Policy can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 96.
Statement of Corporate 1 Governance The Statement of Corporate Governance for 2016 covers the following areas: the structure and role of the Board and its committees: the Boards effectiveness: relations with the Companys shareholders and the AGM: and the reports of the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out separately in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 115.
The Groups risk management and internal control framework and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 34 to 37.
Lord Rose Chairman Ocado Group plc 1.
These sections form part of this Statement of Corporate Governance.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 115, the Directors Report on pages 66 to 73 and the going concern and viability statements on page 35 also contain information required to be included in this Statement of Corporate Governance, and so are incorporated into this statement by reference.
