Chairmans introduction to Governance A year of significant progress ofGroup culture.
We see these as key to achieving and then demonstrating the achievement of shareholder value and stakeholder engagement.
Key developments in the area of governance in the past year include the following: - Board evaluation As planned, we completed our first  evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
We undertook a particularly thorough process and are seeking to maximise the value from its results.
Further details are provided in the Report of the Nomination Committee onpage 77.
- Director recruitment Again as planned, our Nomination Committee undertook aNon-Executive Director recruitment process.
This has resulted in the appointment of two excellent new Independent Non-Executive Directors, Jennifer Allerton and Karen Guerra, also bringing welcome diversity to the Board.
The recruitment process is commented on further in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 76.
- Audit tender Also in line with its plans, our Audit Committee undertook atender process in relation to our external audit.
TheCommittee considered five different firms for the role Dear shareholders, and this is reported on further in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 73.
The past year has seen very significant - Remuneration progress and development in terms As was set out in last years Annual Report, our Remuneration Committee developed a new ongoing ofPaysafes corporate governance remuneration policy for the Companys Directors.
This was arrangements as well as its business approved by an 87% majority of votes cast at last years AGM.
The result of the more historically focused advisory activities.
resolution on remuneration, and remuneration matters more generally, are reported on in the Report of the We started 2016 already fully compliant with the UK Remuneration Committee commencing on page 78.
Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We had previously established governance procedures and processes to ensure - Shareholder engagement that all our obligations as a FTSE 250 constituent were met.
As recommended by the Code, Ian Jenks, our Senior AsI mentioned in last years Annual Report, we already had Independent Director, and I held meetings with many our sights on further developments as part of our philosophy ofPaysafes largest shareholders to discuss governance of continuous improvement.
These meetings are reported on further inthe Report of the Board on page 67.
I am pleased to report that those plans and others developed during the year have been achieved.
Details are included later - Governance structure in this report.
These achievements reflect our approach The governance structure below Board level was reviewed togovernance which includes both ethical operation of the by the Board and a high-level summary of the senior levels Group and transparent reporting by the Board as key parts of this is shown on page 59.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 58 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE STRUCTURE PAYSAFE BOARD Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee - Board composition and skillsets - Group and executive share - Financial reporting grants, measures and dilution - Board appointment processes - Internal controls and risk controls management systems - Recommendations of - Executive and Non-Executive appointments to the Board - Whistleblowing, fraud, bribery remuneration design, and money laundering - Succession planning arrangements and - Internal audit benchmarking - External audit - Annual Directors remuneration report - Group salary and bonus policies Executive Committee - Strategy and business - Shared services planning performance - Divisional - Group financial performance performance Risk, compliance and legal governance Strategic and operational governance ENTERPRISE INSIDE DATA INVESTMENT CREDIT RISK POLICY RISK INFORMATION REGULATORY SECURITY AND TREASURY & INVESTMENT PRODUCT PEOPLE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REVIEW COMMITTEE FORUM COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE BOARD Change management governance Full terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees can be found on the Companys Divisional business unit governance website at www.
com  These and other developments during the year are part of our I look forward to reporting to you further on our intended commitment to strive for best practice in our Board and ongoing developments in governance over the next year.
Committee governance, in the same way as we do in the Thiswill include an update on the actions taken following our Paysafe business itself: Board evaluation with the benefit of the appointments ofJennifer Allerton and Karen Guerra to the Board.
- Our Directors lead from the top in setting the culture and tone as well as the direction of the rest of the Group.
Finally, I confirm the Board considers that the Company - The governance structures outlined are designed to ensure isand was throughout 2016 compliant with all the relevant that this culture is shared with and by the Group as a whole.
Readers who wish to review - These structures, and the processes and procedures with the Code in more detail can find it on the Financial Reporting which they operate, enable the entrepreneurial drive in the Council website at www.
Group to operate successfully within appropriate controls.
On behalf of the Board, - As well as enabling strategy, decisions and guidance tobecascaded from the Board across the Group, the Dennis Jones arrangements established allow prompt, comprehensive Chairman and relevant reporting from across the Group to the Board.
com 59 Chairmans introduction to Governance continued Later in this Governance report: On the next pages, an introduction to the Board Andrew Dark, Chairman of the Nomination Committee, 1 4 is given in the biographies of our Directors.
reports on the work of the Committee on page 75, including the appointment of our new Directors and asummary of the Board evaluation.
More detail on the role and activities of the Board 2 starts on page 64.
Ian Jenks, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, 5 reports on the remuneration of our Directors Ian Francis, the Chairman of our Audit Committee, commencing on page 78, including the ongoing 3 reports on the Committees work commencing on implementation of the policy approved by page 68, including the results of our audit tender.
GOVERNANCE CALENDAR meetings in the period Full report Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Board p64 Audit Committee p68 Nomination p75 Committee Remuneration p78 Committee AGM ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The number of principal scheduled meetings held by the Board and its Committees during the year and Directors attendance atthese is shown below.
Attendance of non-Committee members at some or all of a Committee meeting is shown where they have been invited to attend.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Attended Total meetings in period 6 meetings 5 meetings 4 meetings 4 meetings 1 Dennis Jones Unavoidably absent Non-Committee Joel Leonoff member invited Brian McArthurtoattend some Muscroft orall of a meeting 1 although not any Andrew Dark part of a 1 Remuneration Ian Francis Committee meeting at which Brahm Gelfand their own 1 remuneration Ian Jenks was considered 1.
Denotes Chairman status If Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they receive all relevant documentation and are able to provide input prior to the meeting and, where appropriate, briefings on key decisions after the meeting.
Additional Board meetings were also held during the year, when required, in relation to specific corporate matters.
All Directors attended the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 60
