58 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance overview Dear shareholders, Sidney Taurel Chairman During times of change, good governance is paramount.
As a board we organise our work around five major themes where we believe we can add value: governance and risk, strategy, performance, leadership and people, and shareholder engagement.
A summary of the key items covered by the board throughout the year appears on p64, and I have set out below further detail on our particular areas of focus during 2016.
Leadership & e ectiveness See full section on p60-69 In a year of continued business transformation and sectoral The board works closely with the challenges, strategic review and planning has been an important feature of the boards agenda through 2016.
Working with external executive team to shape Pearsons advisers, the board oversaw a strategic review of Pearsons business accelerated strategic shift to digital, portfolio, leading to our decision to simplify the business, including a reduction in our exposure to large-scale direct delivery businesses.
bringing independent challenge and The strategic review assisted the board in identifying areas of the business in which to capitalise on synergies, and helped us in scrutiny to plans, with a focus on making strategic and tactical decisions, including the acceleration ensuring long-term sustainability of our higher education business towards digital and the decision to move towards a rental model for higher education textbooks.
In February 2016, we introduced a new dashboard and key milestones report showing performance against certain KPIs which In this Governance section align with the priorities of the executive team.
This monthly report p60-69 Leadership & e ectiveness gives the board oversight of a broad range of performance and operational matters including nancials, major projects, competitive p70-77 Accountability performance, digital transformation, talent and succession, brand and impact on education.
The report is provided to the board on p78-81 Engagement a monthly basis, with progress against the KPIs being reviewed at p82-106 Remuneration every board meeting and particular items examined in detail through the course of the year.
p107-110 Additional disclosures To ensure robust oversight and continuing re nement of our corporate governance framework, we reconstituted our nomination committee with e ect from 1 January 2017 as the nomination & governance committee, to be chaired by our senior independent director, Vivienne Cox.
In addition to the normal nomination and succession planning focus, the committee will also have oversight of, and will devise and consider plans for, matters such as board evaluation, diversity and compliance with applicable governance frameworks, with its recommendations being escalated to the full board for formal adoption as necessary.
The boards priorities moving forward are to continue to monitor the companys strategic and tactical actions related to the refocusing of the business, to implement previously signposted portfolio decisions, to keep under review the cost base, to rebase the dividend appropriately, and to e ect an optimal capital allocation, particularly following the outcome of negotiations regarding our investment in Penguin Random House, to ensure long-term sustainability.
We will also continue to work closely with the executive team to ensure ongoing leadership development.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance 59 Board and management composition Remuneration See full section on p82106 The Pearson board consists of senior executive management Our remuneration policy was reviewed in 201617 to align with the alongside a strong team of non-executive directors drawn from companys updated strategy, as well as to re ect changes happening successful international businesses and education institutions with externally in our markets and ongoing changes we are making experience of corporate strategy, finance, education, emerging internally, and will be put to shareholders for approval in a binding markets, technology and consumer marketing.
Our non-executive vote at the 2017 AGM.
We intend to operate executive remuneration directors, who bring a strong independent viewpoint, complement in line with the new policy, should it be approved, in 2017.
This years the executive perspectives of John Fallon and Coram Williams.
annual report on remuneration also refers to further incremental In addition, we invite members of the Pearson executive PEM to changes we have made in line with policy in 2016 to better align attend a number of the boards sessions each year to bring insights executive director compensation with our long-term goals.
and thoughts from across the business, such as at the boards strategy meetings in Minnesota and New Jersey.
UK Corporate Governance Code As is best practice, we continually assess and refresh the board to This year, we are reporting against the 2014 edition of the UK ensure that we maintain an appropriate balance and diversity of Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The board believes that skills and experience.
In January 2016, Lincoln Wallen joined the during 2016 the company was in full compliance with all relevant board as a non-executive director bringing with him a wealth of provisions of the Code.
See p73 for our position on audit tendering digital and technology experience, and has since joined the audit and rotation.
The board works well A detailed account of the provisions of the Code can be found together and all directors continue to make a signi cant on the FRCs website at www.
uk and we encourage readers contribution, including our most recent additions.
to view our compliance schedule on the company website at During the year, the board focused on talent and succession www.
com governance planning for the PEM, and we will continue increasing our involvement in both the development of our existing leaders Conclusion and ensuring the right new additions are brought into our I hope this report clearly sets out how your company is run, and leadership and talent pool.
how we align governance and our board agenda with the strategic direction of Pearson.
We always welcome questions or comments Accountability See full section on p7077 from shareholders, either via our website www.
com or As a board, we are accountable for Pearsons successes and in person at our Annual General Meeting.
We aim to communicate to you in a transparent manner the steps we have taken to ensure that we have a clear oversight of the business and the work we have undertaken in respect of Pearsons strategy throughout the year.
Our audit committee, led by Sidney Taurel Tim Score, plays a key role in monitoring and evaluating our risk Chairman management processes, providing independent oversight of our external audit and internal control programmes, accounting policies, business change projects, such as The Enabling Programme, and in assisting the board in reporting in a fair, balanced and understandable manner to our shareholders.
Engagement See full section on p7881 I engaged with shareholders throughout the year to understand their varying perspectives on Pearsons performance and strategy, and Elizabeth Corley, chair of our remuneration committee, led a programme of engagement to seek investor views on our proposed directors remuneration policy.
John Fallon and Coram Williams also joined with senior leaders from our higher education business to host Pearsons first dedicated investor day in eight years, allowing shareholders to experience for themselves our products and technology, and examine the market in greater detail.
In common with most large, public companies, we have a wider range of stakeholders than just traditional investors, and our reputation & responsibility committee has oversight of our sustainability and social impact initiatives, government and public a airs matters, and engagement with the education community.
