GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE BOARD CHANGES Dear Shareholder Sir John Parker became the Chairman on 1 August 2015 and his fee in the role was set at the same level as that of his INTRODUCTION predecessor.
Our current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders On 1 January 2016 Chris Loughlin became the Group Chief at our 2014 AGM and last year we set out a summary of the Executive Officer.
As this was a new position for the Group, policy for information.
We are providing a summary again this his salary was set after receiving advice from the Committees year on pages 79 to 83 as we are once again not proposing any remuneration consultant and reflected the fact that he was an changes to the policy at this years AGM.
experienced Director with the Pennon Group, having been On pages 84 to 98 we set out our annual report on remuneration promoted from being the Chief Executive of South West Water.
which contains the remuneration, of the Directors for the Accordingly his pre-existing awards and contractual commitments year 2015 16 including the single remuneration figure table will continue in accordance with their established terms.
This is in providing a value for each element of remuneration for each accordance with the approved remuneration policy.
Director, together with the details of the link between Company performance and remuneration during the year pages 87 to LOOKING FORWARD 89.
It also provides details of how our policy will be applied for We will continue to review performance measures annually to 2016 17.
This section of the report together with this letter is ensure they are aligned with our strategy.
For the financial year subject to an advisory shareholder vote at this years AGM.
2016 17 they have been adjusted as set out on page 84 to reflect the drive for synergies across the businesses and the changing Last year the Remuneration Committee was pleased to note structure of the businesses as the ERFs become operational and that 98% of shareholders who voted approved the annual report as South West Water prepares for industry change.
The Committee appreciates the continuing support of its shareholders.
We will also review our overall remuneration policy with our external independent remuneration consultant in readiness for REMUNERATION DECISIONS submission for shareholder approval at our AGM in 2017 at the For 2016 17 the salary of the Group Chief Executive Officer end of the approval period of our current policy.
was not increased due to Chris Loughlin being appointed to the position towards the end of the 2015 16 year.
The salary for the In conclusion, I hope you find our report this year informative and that we can rely on your vote in favour of the annual report Chief Executive, Viridor, was increased by 1.5%, reflecting market rates and performance in the year.
Susan Davy was promoted on remuneration.
to the position of Chief Financial Officer on 1 February 2015.
Martin D Angle The Committee initially set her salary at 325,000, a level below Remuneration Committee Chairman market rates, with the intention of providing flexibility to make higher than usual increases to reflect performance and experience in the role.
The Committees assessment is that she is now fully effective in the role, and performing at a level which exceeds the expectations set out on her appointment.
The Committees view was therefore that it was appropriate to make an adjustment to her salary for 2015 16, and her salary was increased to 390,000 from 1 April 2016, the first salary increase since her appointment.
Following this adjustment, which is believed to be in line with market rates and commensurate with her predecessors salary, it is not anticipated that there will be any further increases of this nature for Susan Davy and future increases are not expected to be materially different from general employee increases.
The bonus outturns for the Executive Directors for 2015 16 reflect the achievements of the Group businesses in the year, the Companys performance against corporate financial targets and the Executive Directors performance against individual targets.
Half of the bonus is deferred into shares.
Further details of targets, measures and performance are set out on pages 87 and 88.
As regards the Companys long-term incentive plan, the overall estimated outturn for awards vesting at the end of the three year period ended 31 March 2016 is 34.5% of the maximum 100%.
This reflects that the Companys total shareholder return is estimated to be 0.52% above the comparator index performance and is expected to have a percentile rank of 52% within the FTSE 250 group.
78 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
