64 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Group delivered a strong performance again in 2016 base salaries, finalised the performance Summary changes conditions and targets for annual bonuses included in the 2017 for 2016 and undertook the annual review Remuneration Policy of the Chairmans fees and benefits.
In terms of the 2017 policy being Remuneration Policy recommended to shareholders, the summary changes which we are proposing for 2017 onwards to the current policy are as follows: The Committee considers that the As no more awards will be granted to Companys current remuneration Executive Directors under the 2012 framework continues to support the LTIP, it is not included in our forward delivery of our business strategy and looking Directors Remuneration Policy.
the creation of high levels of sustainable The Executive Directors existing shareholder value over the long term.
entitlements under the 2012 LTIP will As an integral part of our long term continue in accordance with their terms.
strategy we introduced a Capital Return Plan which committed to return surplus We have included the new long term capital to our shareholders through the incentive plan in the policy the 2017 cycle.
Our current long term incentive PSP referenced above which would plan the 2012 LTIP is aligned with the apply to new Executive Directors if Capital Return Plan.
The 2012 LTIP will I am pleased to introduce the any appointed after the date the policy vest in full once the Company has returned Remuneration Report for 2016, which is adopted, and to existing Executive 6.20 of surplus capital to shareholders.
includes this statement, the future Directors once their 2012 LTIP awards We anticipate that part of the awards Directors Remuneration Policy which is have vested in full.
The PSP will: will start to become exercisable under intended to take effect from 27 April 2017 Consist of a more conventional the terms of the plan on 31 December and the Annual Report on Remuneration structure than the current 2012 LTIP, 2017.
No further awards will be made for the year ended 31 December 2016. with rolling annual awards measured under the 2012 LTIP to any employees Our previous policy was adopted in 2014. over a three year performance period: or Executive Directors.
However, the We are required to obtain shareholders Committee consider it to be important approval of the policy every three years.
Include a two year holding period for that we continue to have an appropriate We will be asking shareholders to approve any Executive Directors participating retention and incentive plan available, and the updated Directors Remuneration in the plan the Committee intends there are circumstances when we will Policy, together with a resolution on the that the holding period will be need to offer long term incentives to assist Annual Report on Remuneration at our applied in the same way to senior on therecruitment of new managers or forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
management below board who incentivise current managers.
In addition we are seeking approval for participate in the 2017 PSP, but will the adoption of a new long term incentive retain discretion to grant awards We are therefore proposing to adopt plan, the 2017 Performance Share Plan below board without a holding period a new plan the 2017 PSP which 2017 PSP.
will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
Our existing Have an annual usual quantum of up During the year, the Remuneration Executive Directors will be precluded from to 200% of base salary which may be Committee theCommittee reviewed the participating in the 2017 PSP under the increased to up to 300% of salary in policy for the Executive Directors and the 2017 policy until their awards under the exceptional circumstances although Chairman.
The Board as a whole reviewed 2012 LTIP have fully vested.
After this point the actual award will be considered at the policy for the Non-Executive Directors.
i. e. when the 6.20 has been returned the time of recruitment and or once When reviewing the proposed new policy, in full, it is intended that the Executive the existing Executive Directors are the Remuneration Committee consulted Directors would participate in the 2017 eligible to participate: with the Companys major shareholders PSP.
The Committee will consult with major and leading proxy voting service providers.
The performance measure and shareholders at that time on quantum, The Committee also undertook its regular targets will be aligned with the long performance metrics and targets.
annual review of the Executive Directors term strategic aims of the business.
For theinitial awards under the 2017 PSP, the intention is to align the performance targets with the Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 65 CapitalReturn Plan.
This is aligned Full details of the performance conditions with our strategy and provides are set out on pages 75 and 76.
782.8m consistency with the participants The Companys excellent performance in Profit before tax in 2016 inthe current 2012 LTIP.
2016 has resulted in Executive Directors Further details of the 2017 PSP are annual bonus payments for 2016 at 97% provided in the Notice of AGM which of the maximum potential.
Profit before tax includes summary provisions of the increased by 23% in 2016 and free cash plan rules.
generation before capital returns by 4.7%.
23% In addition, the Group performed well In line with best practice, we have on its internal customer care measures.
reduced the maximum contribution Increase in profit before tax Bonuses will be paid in cash up to the which may be made in respect of in 2016 value of base salary with the remainder pension either as a contribution into deferred for up to two years and paid in a pension or as cash in lieu for new Bonus Share Scheme awards.
externally appointed Executive Directors to be in line with the maximum payable 2017 remuneration to the salaried workforce.
1,142.9m The focus of the remuneration policy for 2016 remuneration the Executive Directors continues to have Free cash generation before a significant proportion of remuneration outcomes Capital Return Plan and net performancerelated and linked closely to land payments The Group delivered another strong the Companys strategy.
performance in 2016 and the business The Committee has agreed that annual continues to grow and meet its salaries for Executive Directors will increase strategic objectives.
by 3% in line with those received by the The Committee set the Executive Directors Groups salaried employees.
The fees 1,071m 2016 annual bonus targets primarily on for the Non-Executive Directors have stretching metrics linked to the Groups been increased by approximately 3%.
Capital Return Plan strategic objectives and the outlook for the The Chairmans fee has been increased Payments to December Group over the medium term.
2016 performance condition was made up of Performance conditions for the 2017 two financial metrics, up to 50% of bonus annual bonus will again be primarily linked was based on profit before tax targets and to profit and cash generation targets, up to 40% was based on cash generation which will account for 90% of the bonus targets.
In addition there were two opportunity.
10% of the annual bonus will non-financial metrics being customer care, depend on customer care performance for up to 10% of bonus and health and and the Committee will also have the safety performance, which could act as a discretion to reduce the total bonus by up downward modifier of up to 10% of any to 10% if health and safety performance bonus earned.
isnot maintained at a high level.
The financial metrics are closely linked to the These areimportant factors in ensuring Companys strategic aims of growing the overall business performance, sustainability business at an optimal scale and creating and reputation.
The Committee superior sustainable shareholder value over would welcome your support for the the long term through the housing cycle, remuneration resolutions to be tabled at see pages 20 and 21.
The non-financial the forthcoming AGM.
metrics are linked to customer care and health and safety, two of the Groups Jonathan Davie non-financial key performance indicators, Chairman Remuneration Committee see page 22, and are closely linked to 24 February 2017 theGroups focus on building high quality homes to meet customer demand whilst ensuring ourpriority for the health and safety of our workforce and visitors.
Stated before goodwill impairment of 8.0m.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
