50 50 INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good standards in corporate governance an opportunity for the Board to restate to the with strong Executive Directors who have senior management teams the importance significant housebuilding experience and of good governance, thank them for their Non-Executives with complementary skill hard work and hear their feedback.
It is sets and diverse and relevant experience.
an opportunity for all senior management Each of the Committee Chairmen gave to meet members of the Board in an updates on the work of their respective informal setting.
committees, and we explained our approach to governance, further information on which Following the regular review by the is set out in the Governance Report on Nomination Committee of the structure, pages 54-63. size and composition of the Board, the Committee considered the Board would be The Board held its annual strategy meeting strengthened by the appointment of a new in October and undertook a full and detailed independent Non-Executive Director with review of its current strategy which is set out executive experience at a listed company in in the Strategic Report on pages 20 and 21. a consumer facing industry.
I am pleased The strategy includes ensuring the Group to report that following a search conducted maintains appropriate levels of resource to by an executive recruitment agency, the successfully execute Group policies in all Nomination Committee recommended the key areas of the business, in particular with appointment of Simon Litherland, CEO of regard to land replacement, build quality and Britvic Plc.
Simon will be appointed on 3April customer care.
The stewardship and good governance of 2017.
As promised at last years AGM I have The Board has continued its focus on our Company continues to be a high priority also consulted widely with shareholders on training, in particular supporting new entrants for the Board.
We strive to ensure that the the election of Nigel Mills as a Non-Executive to the industry.
One example of this is our Boards strategy and its requirements for Director and they have confirmed that they Combat to Construction training initiative, excellence and good governance are instilled are comfortable with his appointment.
which continues to receive widespread into the culture of the business.
It is the Groups policy to promote its support and will provide a good career path Our Executive and Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors from senior management for ex-UK Armed Forces personnel and help regularly meet with operational management within the Group, wherever possible.
to address the widespread industry shortage teams and staff across our 29 operating Senior management succession planning of skilled tradespeople.
Overall we have businesses, ensuring that the Boards within the Regional Boards ensures future c. 550 graduate trainees and apprentices standards and values for integrity and suitable executive candidates are identified working in the Group.
honesty are successfully disseminated to and have experience within the Group before Finally, I am pleased to report that the all employees.
The Board understands promotion to the Board.
Company has complied with the UK the importance of setting the right culture.
The Nomination Committee will continue Corporate Governance Code 2014 Each of the 29 businesses has its own to review succession planning and the throughout 2016. management team and staff who manage composition of the Board with regard to and take pride in the success of their own the balance of relevant skills, knowledge, operating business, within the strategy set Nicholas Wrigley experience and independence.
In this way we encourage the 24 February 2017 local businesses to work autonomously but We understand the value a diverse board within parameters and controls set by the can bring to the business.
Our approach creates a culture that gender diversity is always considered, motivates and rewards our colleagues for appointments are made on the basis of merit their performance and allows them to share and overall suitability with the aim of having in our success.
We promote a supportive an appropriately diverse range of views.
culture that enables our employees to As part of our approach to maintaining good develop their talents and skills over long relations with the Companys shareholders, andfulfilling careers.
I am pleased to report that we held our first We regularly host informal Chairmans Corporate Governance dinner earlier this dinners for each operating businesses year.
We invited Governance representatives senior management team.
The dinners are from our major shareholders to discuss our attended by me, the Chief Executive and approach to Governance.
We explained other members of the Board.
The dinners are how we set the right culture from the top Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 51 O five R VI E W Key sections within the governance section LEADERSHIP AND A C C O UN TA BI L I T Y R E M U N E R AT I O N E F F E C T I V E NE S S Our board, structure Report from the Oversight of executive and activities Audit Committee remuneration The Boards strategy introduced During 2016 the During 2016 the Remuneration in 2012 has proved very Audit Committee: Committee reviewed the policy successful, as shown by the for the Executive Directors and recommended the significant overall improvement the Chairman.
A resolution to appointment of and oversaw the intheGroups performance.
approve the new policy will be transition to a new auditor: put to shareholders at the AGM During 2016 the Board again undertook a detailed review to be held in April.
placed particular focus on: of the principal risks facing The Groups strong performance staff training: the Group: has resulted inExecutive health and safety resources: assessed the key risks of Directors achievingover 97% misstatement of the Groups oftheir bonus targets in 2016. measures to improve financial statements relating customercare: and Directors base salaries and to the carrying value of both fees have been increased from review of the Groups risk the Groups land and work in 1 January 2017 by 3% in line with register and systems of progress, including the accuracy increases given tosalaried staff.
of cost recoveries, and available for sale financial assets.
Read more about the structure, Read about our Audit Committee report Read our remuneration report roleandactivities of the Board See pages 56-60.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
