Governance overview Tony DeNunzio Non-Executive Chairman We continue to review our governance framework and processes to enhance the way we operate as a Board and deepen our strategic debate.
Chairmans introduction Our search for Ians replacement continues and in the interim we Our governance framework is reviewed and benchmarked against have appointed Mark Adams who will oversee the finance department best practice every year.
My role is to ensure that we have in place during the intervening period.
Mark has demonstrated leadership strong and effective governance practices, that the Board is well in a number of business to consumer and publicly listed companies.
managed and has the correct balance of skills, diversity and As well as succession planning, the Board, supported by the Audit experience to successfully execute the Groups long term strategy.
& Risk Committee also spent time on risk management which We have recently welcomed the appointment of Ian Kellett involved reviewing the risk appetite across the Group alongside the as Group Chief Executive Officer to the Board, following the Groups key risks.
Whilst this process remains ongoing, we believe resignation of Nick Wood.
Ian has been a member of the Groups that gaining a further understanding of our risk profile will help Board for the last ten years fulfilling the roles of Chief Financial support the implementation of our strategic programmes.
Officer and latterly the role of Chief Executive Officer of the Retail We conducted a further external evaluation on Board effectiveness Division.
Over this time, Ian has steered the business through in 2016.
During the year, we also progressed the actions that were continuous growth, played a pivotal role in the IPO and also the highlighted from the 2015 external evaluation, which enabled us expansion of our veterinary services with the acquisition of to further enhance our Board processes.
His skills and experience build on our existing talent, described in detail on page 81 and we are now working through standing us in good stead for the year ahead.
We very much look an action plan to build on our strong foundations together with forward to supporting him and the Executive Management Team strengthening our culture and values which underpin our strategy in setting and executing our strategic priorities to deliver the long for the future.
term success of the Group.
The following Governance Report provides an additional overview of the work of the Board during the year, our governance framework and the key controls we have in place together with details of how we have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
Board activities in 2016 Approved full year results, report and accounts and recommended the final dividend.
Received reports on, and reviewed the effectiveness of, the Groups risk and control processes to support its strategy and objectives, and approved the Companys risk appetite statements.
Tony DeNunzio Non-Executive Chairman, Pets at Home Group Plc Approved the Q1 Trading Statement.
Approved interim results and resolved to pay interim dividend.
Presentations on strategic priorities throughout the year.
Approved the appointment of Ian Kellett as the Group CEO following the resignation of Nick Wood.
Reviewed the annual performance evaluation of the Board and its committees.
Pets at Home Group Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance report The overall governance structure of the Group: Pets at Home Group Plc Board The Company is led and controlled by the Board.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees and the day to day management to the Executive Management Team.
Further details can be found on pages 77 to 79.
Board Committees Audit & Risk Committee Nomination & Corporate Remuneration Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Committee Committee and Pets Before Profit Committee Members Members Members Members Amy Stirling Chairman Tony DeNunzio Chairman Paul Moody Chairman Tessa Green Chairman Dennis Millard Dennis Millard Amy Stirling Dennis Millard Paul Coby Tessa Green Dennis Millard Paul Coby Paul Moody Amy Stirling Tessa Green Tony DeNunzio Paul Coby Brian Carroll Paul Moody Executive Management Team Investment Committee Health & Safety Committee Executive Team and Operating Board Board composition Membership of the Board Gender breakdown Executive Management Non-Executive Chairman 1 Male 60% Executive Directors 1 Female 40% Non-Executive Directors 1 Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 Gender breakdown Gender breakdown Board of Directors Group Male 75% Male 60% Female 25% Female 40% Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61
