58 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairmans introduction to governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Alan Jackson Chairman The Board is cognisant of the need to to further enhance compliance, control Dear Shareholder and oversight, setting industry-leading strike a careful balance to ensure that shareholders and other stakeholders are I am pleased to present Playtechs standards in these areas.
appropriately protected by robust processes and procedures while providing an At the beginning of the year, we appointed This was a busy year for the Group during two experienced Internal Auditors to report environment that fosters an entrepreneurial spirit that allows our senior management which time the Board has been able to directly to the Head of Internal Audit.
This provide strategic leadership and I would like was in recognition of the increasing levels team and employees to continue to deliver the year-on-year growth that we have to pass on my gratitude for the enthusiasm of complexity in relation to internal controls and dedication which the Directors and and our commitment to having a dedicated achieved in recent years.
This balance enables us to clearly focus on the key risks senior management have demonstrated.
Our relationship with We have, however, continued to focus  continues to facing the Group but to be flexible enough in our approach to accommodate changes on ensuring that we have an appropriate be a co-sourced arrangement, with PwC governance framework in place.
The Board providing support to the Internal Audit Team.
resulting from developments in our strategy or changes in the regulatory environment.
is committed to high standards of corporate governance which it considers to be We continued to listen to and understand We have set out in the following sections central to the effective management of the the views of our shareholders.
In addition business and to maintaining the confidence to the usual processes, we met with how we seek to manage the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business of investors.
institutional shareholders, particularly around results announcements and at different with further details on our governance framework, to explain how our corporate The Board has confidence in the future investor conferences with a focus on the of the Group and sees significant growth strategic vision of the Group and the quickly governance practices support our strategy.
evolving developments in our industry in opportunities, and remains focused on looking for such opportunities in regulated terms of innovation, regulation and tax.
The Annual General Meeting AGM is an important opportunity for the Board to and soon-to-be regulated markets.
We continue to work closely with regulators in The Board continues to strive to ensure that meet with shareholders, particularly those the Groups governance structure protects who may not otherwise have the chance various markets to ensure our compliance with local laws and regulations.
the sustainability of its businesses and the to engage with the Board and senior communities in which it operates, while management.
Our 2017 AGM is scheduled The second half of the year saw the maximising shareholder value and treating for 10.00 am on 17 May 2017 at The Sefton all shareholders fairly.
The Board also sets Hotel, Douglas, Isle of Man and we look expansion of our Financials division through the acquisition of 70% of Consolidated the tone for the Company.
The way in forward to seeing you there.
which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical Financial Holdings A S. The regulatory backdrop under which our Financials matters, its definitions of success and the Alan Jackson assessment of appropriate risk, all define Chairman division operates has become increasingly developed and, against this backdrop, the atmosphere within which the executive team works.
22 February 2017 we are taking a risk based approach with an ongoing review of our business model
