Chairmans introduction Strong, effective and transparent governance Dear Shareholder Governance Culture of the Group I am pleased to introduce our 2016 We keep our governance structures under While the Board can ensure good decision Governance report, in which we constant review to ensure they suit the making at an executive level, it is important update you on our governance of needs of our business and our that the same approach is taken throughout Prudential during the year.
This year we have increased the organisation.
The best way to achieve the remit of the Nomination and this is to ensure that we have a culture Good governance ensures decisions Governance Committee to provide where managers at every level are are made in the interests of the business and oversight of our material subsidiary boards.
accountable, stakeholder views are taken take into account the views of stakeholders, In 2015 we identified Prudential seriously and colleagues feel free to including our employees and our Corporation Asia Limited, The Prudential challenge decision making.
Our strategy aims to achieve Assurance Company Limited, Jackson believe the Board determines culture and just this by ensuring we have a responsive National Life Insurance Company Jackson the Board aims to exhibit the behaviour we governance framework that supports and and M&G Group Limited as material expect from all.
challenges our executives decision making.
subsidiaries of our principal business units.
Stakeholders Over the first half of 2016, we appointed Board operations independent non-executive directors to I also oversee the balance of Board As Chairman, I have responsibility for consideration between the interests of our their boards, including board chairs and ensuring the Board process operates chairs of the subsidiary audit and risk shareholders, customers, employees and effectively and that we establish an our other key stakeholders.
To support our new appropriate ethos and culture at Board independent directors, we designed a part of this is the active shareholder level, which set the tone from the top engagement that we participate in every reporting and governance framework.
focus in 2016 was on embedding this year.
We were pleased to welcome 186 Driving that culture means that, when we shareholders to our Annual General framework.
Howard Davies, Ann meet as a Board, I ensure that there is open Godbehere and I have established good Meeting in 2016 as well as holding frequent debate and constructive and effective meetings with our institutional investors.
communication links with our new material challenge of the issues under discussion.
subsidiary chairs and material subsidiary The quality of our people is a key driver of We test issues rigorously and we have a our success.
At Prudential, we create an risk and audit committee chairs.
I am continue to see benefits from the greater environment in which our people find value pleased to say that we have strong and meaning in their work, and create alignment of the governance within our contribution from all Board members and subsidiary businesses.
shared value for our customers, shareholders challenge from our Non-executive and communities.
The financial peace of Looking forward Directors, and the diversity of experience mind that we help to provide to our in our Boardroom comes through in the We have also focused further on the customers remains the focus of Prudentials discussions.
This ensures our decisions are quality of our Environmental, Social and purpose as a business.
balanced and all the risks are considered.
Governance Reporting in 2016 and I am Finally, I believe that good governance is pleased to announce that we will be based on the right level of oversight and Supporting our strategy publishing our first dedicated ESG report challenge.
I hope that reading the reports I also ensure that our governance supports later this year.
This report provides of my Committee Chairs that follow will our strategy and the long-term success of important information on our approach to demonstrate to you the work we have done Prudential.
This year specifically, the Board managing the business in a sustainable this year to ensure that oversight and has overseen major transactions in support fashion.
It explains the actions to support challenge are in place, and, more of our strategy: the initial public offering of this approach and the benefits we bring to importantly, the tangible and positive our Indian joint venture, ICICI Prudential our customers and stakeholders.
We firmly impact it has had on our business.
The Life: commencing the divestment of our believe this information, coupled with methodology and results of our 2016 Board Korean life business: the launch of a global stakeholder engagement, improves the evaluation are also set out on page 87. risk and portfolio management platform for quality of the decisions we make.
our asset management businesses: and However, we need to remain vigilant not growing our African business to include only to our internal needs but also to Zambia.
Every major transaction, including external factors that may require decisions those in the smaller parts of our business from the Board.
It remains critical for the such as Africa, is brought to the Board.
In Board to have an understanding of and each case, management and the Board respond to policy debates in all markets Paul Manduca worked closely together to ensure the right in which we operate.
Chairman information was provided and key risks were robustly challenged.
76 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
