60 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements our Shareholders and wider stakeholder community.
The current Chairmans Statement on composition and balance of skills on the Board ensures that we are well placed to do so.
Corporate Biographies of the members of our current Board of Directors can be found on pages 54 to 56.
The strength of your Board lies in its diversity, with skills and experience from across the business spectrum.
At all times, the Governance composition of the Board is kept under review so that it continues to be best placed to ensure the long-term success of the business, comprehensively manage risk and deliver on our stakeholders expectations.
2016 has been a year of change as we bedded in our three newer Directors and three Directors left us to pursue other interests.
In 2015, we welcomed Chris Sinclair, Mary Harris and Pam Kirby to the Board.
I am pleased to say that each of them has brought with them their own strengths and that their perception, ability to challenge and strategic input has been invaluable since joining.
Pam and Mary both joined the Audit Committee in 2016 and Chris was appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
Pam has taken on the additional responsibility of chairing our new CRSEC Committee and, with the appointments of myself and Nicandro Durante as fellow members of the Committee, Pam will report to the Board on its approach to managing the Companys corporate social responsibilities, environmental and sustainability issues and behaviours, ethical conduct and regulatory compliance.
Jaspal Bindra, Sue Shim and Doug Tough stood down as Directors following the conclusion of the 2016 AGM and we wish them well in their future endeavours.
As stewards of the Company, the Board promotes the highest standards of corporate A number of members of the Board have served longer terms than those recommended by the Code, including myself.
Their wealth of governance across the Group to ensure knowledge and experience is considered invaluable.
In light of this, both we maintain a superior level of growth in Judy Sprieser and Ken Hydon have again been requested to remain with the Company in order to best serve you, our stakeholders.
I am pleased shareholder value commensurate with an to report that they have both agreed.
Judys and Kens knowledge appropriate level of risk management.
of the business greatly supports the newer members of the Board.
Mary Harris will become a member of the Remuneration Committee Adrian Bellamy following the conclusion of the AGM and will succeed Judy as Chair Chairman from 1 November 2017.
Judy will step down from the post of Chair and she will continue to support Mary as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Mary will cease to be a member of the Audit Committee Introduction from May 2017.
From the conclusion of the AGM Ken Hydon will also On behalf of the Board, I present the Companys Corporate step down as Chair of the Audit Committee and be succeeded in that role Governance Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2016. by Andr Lacroix.
Ken will continue as a member of the Committee to As in previous years, we report against the requirements of the support Andr, who will also continue as Senior Independent Director.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Our goal remains to provide management As a Board, we collectively continue to place the greatest of importance with the support needed to run a sustainable business, as well as on having an experienced, well-balanced and diverse Board with a wide challenging decision making to ensure alignment with the strategic range of skills and expertise.
It is this breadth of experience and diversity framework and risk appetite of the Company.
Im pleased to confirm which underpins our decision-making capabilities and this Corporate that our high standards of compliance with the Code remain.
Governance Statement serves to present to you our compliance with the Code during the year and how we have served you, our stakeholders.
In recent years, there have been a significant number of changes in the regulatory landscape affecting both our reporting requirements With effect from 1 January 2017, we have also appointed a new Company and governance structure.
Recent changes, such as the introduction Secretary, Rupert Bondy, formerly responsible for legal and compliance of the EU Market Abuse Regulation, the EU Audit Directive, The Small matters as Group General Counsel of BP.
Rupert is also our SVP General Business Enterprise and Employment Act 2015 as well as the implications Counsel and a member of the Executive Committee and we are delighted around the result of the UK referendum were reviewed by the Board to welcome him.
I thank Chris Logan, our Deputy Company Secretary, for during the year and we will continue to meet changing standards, acting as Interim Company Secretary over the last 15 months and for her set the appropriate tone and drive compliance across the Group.
support and diligence during that time, which was also recognised externally by her receiving the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and In the past year, we have taken great strides in seeking to further Administrators Governance Professional of the Year 2016 award.
enhance our high governance standards.
The Board has established a Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Effectiveness CRSEC Committee under the headship of Pam Kirby to lead the As reported last year, in view of the changes made to the Board in Group in the promotion of best practice in corporate responsibility and 2015, it was decided to hold an external Board evaluation during 2016. ethical matters, to encourage sustainable operations, and to oversee In line with the Code requirements and corporate governance best managements compliance framework and challenge accordingly.
You practice, an independent externally facilitated evaluation of the Board can read more about the CRSEC Committees work on pages 74 to 75 and its committees excluding the CRSEC Committee as it was considered too new was conducted using the services of EquityCommunications Leadership Limited.
Broadly, the resulting view of the evaluation was that the Board As part of its stewardship of the Company, the Board recognises the and its committees are working well, with high levels of functionality, need for high standards of corporate governance, in order to best serve an appropriate balance of skills and experience, mutual respect of Directors, open and transparent discussion at meetings, and a balanced Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 61 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements focus on strategic and operational issues, combined with the strength Policy.
This approach is further detailed in the Remuneration Report of the RB culture.
Further discussion on the evaluation and its results are on pages 76 to 92.
We are conscious of the need for a prudent and contained on page 65. measured approach to remuneration, whilst offering sufficient reward for effective performance to maximise our ability to recruit and retain Diversity the very best suited candidates.
The Directors Remuneration Policy We meet the recommendations set by the Davies Report on Women on was approved in 2016 and details are set out on page 81.
We will Boards, and have taken note of the Hampton Alexander review, we not be asking Shareholders to make any changes to the policy this always recruit the best and most suited candidates for any role and we year.
However, the Remuneration Committee has made significant strive for a well-balanced representation of gender and ethnic changes within the policy following consultation with Shareholders in background at all levels across the Group.
relation to the CEOs bonus and the quantum of future LTIP awards.
Our Executive Committee, comprising the most senior management Engagement level in the business, represents seven different nationalities from across We place considerable importance on the views of our Shareholders.
the globe, embodying our corporate diversity and inclusion policy.
The As Chairman, I am responsible for effective communication Companys wider global leadership community holds 51 nationalities with Shareholders and for ensuring that the Board collectively between them, representing a broad background of collective skills and understands their views.
The Company has a regular investor relations experience.
This widens our understanding of our consumers, who programme of meetings between our institutional Shareholders, themselves come from the broadest possible backgrounds, allowing us analysts, Directors and senior management.
Additional dialogue to be best placed in serving their needs.
is held with institutional Shareholders as appropriate.
Private Shareholders have the opportunity to speak with the Board and As well as supporting women with their career paths, our DARE Develop, raise any concerns at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Attract, Retain and Engage talented women programme has progressed further to help educate all our employees and remove unconscious bias Summary from the workplace and is a key focus for the Group in 2017.
The Board considers compliance with the Code of utmost importance.
Any instances of non-compliance would only ever be allowed through Accountability and audit the authority of the Board if it can be shown that the spirit of the Code The Board has responsibility for confirming that the Financial Statements and good corporate governance within the Company generally continue.
for the Group are fair, balanced and understandable.
It is supported in its decision by the Audit Committee, which ensures the integrity of the All of the existing Directors will be offering themselves for reGroups financial reporting, internal controls framework and risk election at the 2017 AGM.
Three of the Directors, Ken Hydon, Judy management processes.
The Audit Committee works closely with the Sprieser and myself, have served beyond the maximum nine-year Internal Audit function, as well as the External Auditor, and further period recommended by the Code.
The Board has taken this into details of their work can be found on pages 69 to 73. account and believes that the current mix of tenure is in the best interests of our Shareholders and that Ken, Judy and I continue As I reported last year, together with the Audit Committee, the Board to challenge appropriately and act independently.
The Board has considered the requirements of the Competition and Markets regularly considers Board member succession and, in particular, Authority Order in respect of audit tendering, as well as the Code succession for the Chairman led by the Senior Independent recommendations and the related FRC guidance.
We are required to Director and the Committee Chairs.
We look for your continued undertake an audit tender and auditor rotation by the 2020 year end.
In support for all of us to continue to serve the Board on your behalf compliance with the UK implementation of the EU requirements on and to promote the long-term success of the Company.
auditor rotation, the Audit Committee has commenced an audit tender pre-selection process, with the intention to recommend and have ready The Corporate Governance Statement outlines the Companys for appointment a new auditor at the 2018 AGM.
governance processes in greater detail and is on pages 62 to 67.
Except where otherwise mentioned above, the Company has complied Remuneration with the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2016.
Aligning the interests of our Executive Directors and employees with those of our investors remains the key driver behind our Remuneration Adrian Bellamy Chairman 20 March 2017 Key areas of Board focus in 2016 The Board considers reports from the Risk management and internal control Remuneration CEO and the CFO on strategic and RBs principal risks, emerging risks and Oversight of executive remuneration business developments as well as financial performance and forecasts the Groups risk register, including newly identified compliance risks for the business at every meeting.
Leadership and governance Consideration and approval of the Viability Statement Board and committee evaluation and In addition, the following areas formed substantial areas of focus The effectiveness of the Groups effectiveness compliance programme Director and senior management for the Board in the year: Detection and response to cyber threats succession planning Strategy and planning Internal controls Corporate responsibility, sustainability, Group budgets, forecasts and key External Audit tender and evaluation of ethics and compliance performance targets, including Internal and External Auditors Relations with Shareholders assumptions, scenarios and projections Promoting the highest standards of Results and Financial Statements Potential mergers & acquisitions and post corporate governance and best practice acquisition reviews Compliance with reporting requirements Other Performance relative to key competitors Annual Report Group debt and funding arrangements Results and presentations to analysts Independent review of the Groups The Supercharge programme management of the HS and safety Pensions related issues.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements
