70 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Board Evaluation and Effectiveness The Boards are committed to In accordance with the UK and Dutch corporate governance codes, in 2016 17, evaluations of the effectiveness and performance of highstandards of corporate the Boards, their Committees and individual Directors were overseen by the Corporate Governance Committee.
These governance, which underpin RELX evaluations were facilitated internally.
The outcome confirmed that the Boards and their Committees continued to function Groups ability to deliver long-term, effectively, and each Director continues to be effective and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Further details on the sustainable shareholder value.
process undertaken and the findings of the reviews can be found on page 75.
Our Governance Framework Looking ahead, in accordance with the requirements of the UK The Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc are Corporate Governance Code, an externally facilitated evaluation committed to high standards of corporate governance and believe will be conducted in 2017 18. that such standards are integral to the success of the Group, and As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that the composition underpin its ability to deliver long-term, sustainable shareholder of the Boards is appropriate in order to be effective in discharging value.
The Boards have established appropriate and their duties to shareholders.
Following the changes made to the comprehensive systems of corporate governance, which include Boards during the year, and taking into account the outcome of the policies and procedures that promote corporate responsibility, evaluations, I believe that the Boards and their Committees transparency and accountability.
Central to these policies is the operate effectively, and have an appropriate balance of skills, Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, which sets the experience, independence, knowledge of the Group and diversity standard expected for corporate and individual behaviour.
The to ensure that they continue to do so.
I also remain satisfied that Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all Directors and the Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to undertake employees of the Group, and is available on our website at their roles.
More information on its application can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 45.
Therefore, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, all Directors will stand for re-election at the Annual General The Group is listed in the UK, US and the Netherlands and Meetings in 2017. therefore is subject to the corporate governance requirements of those jurisdictions.
These requirements, which are continually Directors Remuneration Policy evolving, are reviewed and monitored by the Corporate Our current Directors remuneration policy was approved at the Governance Committee.
The Boards delegate a number of other RELX PLC Annual General Meeting in April 2014 for three years.
responsibilities to their Committees, to enable them to carry out As a result, an updated remuneration policy is being proposed to their functions effectively.
The Boards Committee structure is set shareholders for approval at the RELX NV and RELX PLC Annual out on page 76.
This Corporate Governance Report aims to provide shareholders The new policy is proposed to apply for three years from the with a clear view of the Groups corporate governance conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meetings.
Full details of the arrangements, how the Group has complied with the applicable proposed new policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration corporate governance codes, and the work of the Boards and their Policy Report on pages 81 to 90.
Board Changes and Succession The Boards of RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc are fully Anthony Habgood aligned, comprising the same Directors.
The biographical details Chairman of each of the Directors are set out on pages 66 and 67.
22 February 2017 There were a number of changes to the Boards during the year under review.
In my introduction to Corporate Governance last year, I reported that Carol Mills and Robert MacLeod would be appointed as independent Non-Executive Directors, subject to shareholder approvals.
I am pleased to report that shareholders duly approved their appointments, and Carol and Robert joined the Boards in April 2016.
Lisa Hook and Robert Polet, who served on the Boards for ten and nine years respectively, retired from the Boards in April 2016.
As a consequence of these changes to the Boards, the membership of the Board Committees was reviewed by the Nominations Committee and a number of changes made to their composition.
The Nominations Committee will continue to monitor Board and Committee composition and review succession planning arrangements on an ongoing basis.
The membership of the Boards Committees as at 31 December 2016 can be found on page 76.
