Directors and Corporate Governance Report Chairmans governance letter Chairmans governance letter Throughout 2016, the Board has continued to focus on strengthening and enhancing its effectiveness to ensure promotion of the success of the business for the benefit of RSAs stakeholders.
Leadership During the year, we have welcomed two new non-executive directors who bring a wealth of insurance and financial services experience to the Board.
Martin Strobel joined the Board on 1May 2016 bringing with him over 23 years insurance and financial services experience, most recently as Chief Executive Officer of Baloise Group.
Isabel Hudson joined the Board on 1August 2016 bringing significant experience in general insurance and wide-ranging commercial, corporate finance and business development experience together with relevant board experience as an executive and non-executive director on the boards of a number of listed companies.
These appointments have enabled us to leverage further industry experience and commercial knowledge to help 2016 AGM ensure that RSA continues to deliver value for its customers and shareholders while advancing its operational priorities.
Full details of Martin and Isabels experience can be found Over the past 25 in their profiles on page 45.
Following these appointments, Resolutions the composition of the Board is 73 percent male and three years, the passed 27 percent female.
Board has worked Johanna Waterous has informed the Board that she will retire At least as a director with effect from the Companys AGM on 5 May 2017. to strengthen I would like to thank her for her significant contribution to the 93% and enhance the Board.
With effect from 5 May 2017, Isabel Hudson will succeed of votes cast Johanna Waterous as Senior Independent Director.
effectiveness, skills For each Effectiveness resolution and experience Over the past three years and following the external Board For more evaluation in 2013, the Board has worked to strengthen of the Board to information and enhance its effectiveness, skills and experience.
In 2014 regarding the align with the and 2015, I undertook internal Board evaluations to ensure 2017 AGM progress against the actions identified and to assess the see page 60 Groups strategy.
Boards continued effectiveness to align with the Groups strategy.
Further detail on the Boards journey over the Martin A. Scicluna past three years can be found on pages 54 and 55.
Chairman In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, an external Board evaluation was undertaken in 2016.
The results of the evaluation concluded that, over the previous three years, the Board had made meaningful progress building on its strengths, and was demonstrating significant improvement in its effectiveness and ability to add value.
Full details of the 2016 Board evaluation can be found on page 53.
42 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Accountability Conclusion The Board believes that disclosures made in respect of I would like to thank the Board and employees for their the Groups position and prospects are fair, balanced and contribution and commitment throughout the year, understandable and that the delivery of the Companys which is fundamental in ensuring the Board delivers objectives is being undertaken with the best interests of on shareholder value.
The Companys Viability Statement is set out on page 63.
Work undertaken over the past three years to enhance the effectiveness of the Groups System of Governance is now embedded into our business as usual processes.
Martin A. Scicluna Chairman During the year the Board paid close attention to the 22 February 2017 expectations of the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA with particular focus on embedding the obligations of the Group under the Solvency II regime, and on conduct matters.
Diversity of the Board During 2016, the Company has complied with all of the a.
Male 73% Principles and Provisions of the UK Corporate Governance b.
Female 27% Code and this is evidenced throughout the Directors b and Corporate Governance Report.
1.1 requires the Board to identify whether a each of the non-executive directors is independent.
Isabel Hudson has a pre-existing entitlement to a deferred pension from one of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
This entitlement relates to a previous employment with Royal Insurance which ended in 1993 and is unaffected by Board Tenure her appointment as a non-executive director.
The Board determined, taking into account a number of factors including a.
3 to 6 years 45.5% c the size of the pension benefit and its relative immateriality c. 6 to 9 years 9% to her overall retirement planning, that Isabel Hudson, upon a appointment, was independent notwithstanding this and the Board considers that her pension entitlement in no way b compromises her independence of character and judgement.
Neither the Company, nor Isabel has made contributions to the Scheme to secure additional pension benefits since she left in 1993.
Discussions were held with major shareholders who indicated they were supportive of Isabels appointment Board Experience despite her membership of the pension scheme.
Business a Development 9% The Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy is due c. International 30% d for approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM, b d. Financial having last been approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Services 44% The Policy has been reviewed during the year by the Group c Remuneration Committee and a shareholder consultation has been undertaken to understand views which support the conclusions reached.
The Group Remuneration Committee concluded that the Policy remains aligned to Group strategy Directors and Corporate Governance Report and shareholder interests and no substantive changes are proposed.
The Policy is set out on pages 80 to 87.
Board of Directors Page 44 Executive Committee Page 46 Engagement Leadership Page 47 The Board is committed to transparent disclosure and Effectiveness Page 50 engagement with the Groups stakeholders.
Throughout Board Evaluation Page 53 the year, senior management have actively engaged with Accountability Page 56 employees, shareholders, regulators and other stakeholders on relevant matters.
A pensions consultation process has been Engagement Page 58 undertaken with employees and unions during the period with Other Statutory Information Page 63 a view to changing pension and redundancy terms.
Group Investment Committee Report Page 65 During the year, nearly 400 meetings were held with Group Nomination and Governance Committee Report Page 66 institutional investors focusing on the future performance potential of the Group, capital foundation and future Board Risk Committee Report Page 68 capacity for capital return to shareholders.
Group Audit Committee Report Page 70 Directors Remuneration Report Page 76 Further information relating to stakeholder engagement is included on pages 58 to 62.
Directors Remuneration Policy Page 80 Annual Report on Remuneration Page 88 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43
