CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Governance to support our strategy uring our second year Andrew Goodsell as a public company, we Chairman have agreed a clear plan and operating model for the future as outlined on D pages 13-15.
This year is about ensuring that our governance framework supports and sets the tone for the strategic direction of the business.
This corporate governance report explains how our processes not only ensure good stewardship and control, but also allow us to grow.
The Audit, Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees the Committees have played an important role in allowing this to happen.
Orna NiChionna became Risk Committee chair in June 2015, taking over from Ray King, who remains a Risk Committee member and chair of the Audit Committee.
Key features corporate Our Board regularly discusses: The Groups risk management governance report processes have been reviewed by the A clear and concise review of how Our customers needs.
Risk Committee, which discussed our governance fits with strategy.
risk appetite and tolerance levels, and An explanation of how our Financial performance.
considered how these would affect governance framework supports Talent management and our strategic direction.
The principal the Saga Way and the Saga Model.
risks and uncertainties analysis played The findings of our first Board Risk appetite.
an important part in the formulation evaluation exercise.
of the viability statement see page 69.
The Audit Committee considered the approach taken and the viability statement itself see page 53, and provided assurance that the relevant systems and processes were in place to This year is about ensuring that our ensure that the annual report as a whole governance framework supports and is fair, balanced and understandable.
Details can be found in the Audit sets the tone for the strategic direction Committee Report on pages 70-73. of the business.
Our brand and reputation In the spirit of the Saga Way see page 23, the Board is committed to ensuring that our brand and reputation for excellent customer service are never compromised.
We are also focused on delivering the best service to our 50 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance shareholders and it is vital that our Equity Investor they represented fell A summary of how we have complied corporate governance procedures allow below 10%.
with the Code is set out overleaf.
us to implement strategic decisions Ourapproach to leadership and Bridget McIntyre was appointed as an effectively.
The composition of the effectiveness is detailed on page 56-59 Board will continue to support this.
independent Non-Executive Director and 62-63 respectively, accountability on 1 January 2016.
Bridget has on pages 66-69, and relations with There have been changes to the Board considerable insurance, management shareholders on page 77. during the year and the Nomination and financial management experience Committee played an important role and I was delighted to welcome her to Governance is integral to the success in helping us to identify the skill set we the Board.
Her appointment enhances of our business.
It is not just a case needed to achieve the right balance.
our insurance expertise and also brings of ticking the box, but is viewed as ThisCommittee also considered how a wealth of industry experience that a way of exploring opportunities and we manage our talent and succession I am sure will prove to be of great acting as a check and balance for planning for more details see pages valueto us.
These changes mean that we comply This approach will support the Saga Last year, I reported that Stuart Howard with the Codes recommendation that Model outlined on page 13 and will intended to retire at the Companys first at least half of our Board members are allow us to provide differentiated AGM on 23 June 2015.
In order for an independent Non-Executive Directors.
products that our customers want, in a effective handover to take place, For full details of Board composition way they like, with outstanding service.
Jonathan Hill joined as Group Chief see page 62.
Our shareholders and our AGM Financial Officer Designate in April 2015, was appointed a Director on 29 April Board evaluation During the year, we introduced a We conducted our first Board and Dividend Reinvestment Plan for those 2015, and took up the role of Group Chief Financial Officer following Stuarts Committee evaluation during the shareholders who wish to turn cash yeartoensure that our independent dividends into more shares.
We also retirement at the AGM.
Jonathans wealth of experience in senior financial Non-Executive Directors had gained awarded eligible employees with free a good understanding of our business shares under the 2014 Share Incentive operational and listed roles makes him a valuable addition to our leadership and our short and long-term strategic Plan to reward their hard work and allow goals.
I am pleased to say that the them to share in our journey.
Since joining, Jonathan has demonstrated a passion for growth evaluation confirmed that this was the case.
The exercise also identified areas At our first AGM at our head office whilst focusing on a capital efficient in Folkestone, Kent on 23 June 2015, model and high levels of cash generation.
on which to focus over the forthcoming year, including how we can ensure that all resolutions were passed with a As projected at the time of listing, and significant majority and all Directors following a 16 month handover period Board meetings are structured to allow maximum time for debate and strategic standing for re-election were rewith Lance Batchelor, Group Chief appointed.
I look forward to this years Executive Officer, I transitioned from discussion.
A full explanation of the evaluation exercise can be found on AGM and also welcome comments Executive to Non-Executive Chairman from our shareholders at any time.
The Remuneration Policy was approved On 2 December 2015, as a result of the by our shareholders at our AGM: share placing undertaken by Acromas over 99% voted in favour.
The full Bid Co Limited, Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Report can be found Charles Sherwood and Pev Hooper Andrew Goodsell on pages 78-100. resigned from the Board.
This was in Chairman accordance with the Relationship 18 April 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code Agreement dated 8 May 2014 which The Board reviews our governance required their resignation once the level framework against best practice and of indirect shareholding of the Private regulatory requirements every year.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 51
