Chairmans introduction re-election at the 2017 AGM on 9 May 2017.
The Board also reviews Non-Executive Director independence on an annual basis and takes into account the individuals experience, their behaviour at Board meetings and their contribution to unbiased and independent debate.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent, including Charles McVeigh, notwithstanding his longservice.
The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains talented people to deliver outstanding performance and further enhance the success of the Group.
The Board recognises the benefits of having diversity across all areas of the Group.
In particular, in a sector which historically has struggled to retain a high percentage of female leaders, we are striving to redress the gender balance with our successful graduate recruitment programme, which aims to have a balanced intake of males and females and should help to ensure that there continues to be a diversity of talent within the Group from which we can draw the future leaders of our Company.
The Companys policy on diversity applies across all levels of the Group and further details of the policy can be found in the Corporate I am pleased to introduce this years Corporate Governance Report.
Responsibility CR section on pages 32 to 37.
With this Report we describe the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and explain how the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the and its Committees have operated in 2016.
The Main Principles of Group and how it is directed and controlled, so we test the Board the Code provide the framework for the reporting model which we effectiveness and performance annually through a formal evaluation.
have used for the last three years.
Our approach to: Leadership and This years evaluation was facilitated by an independent external Effectiveness is described on pages 41 to 50: Relations with consultant, JCA.
The process and key conclusions are explained on Shareholders and Other Stakeholders is described on page 51: and page 48.
We are confident that your Board has the right balance of Accountability is described on pages 51 to 56. skills, experience and diversity of personality to continue to encourage open, transparent debate and challenge.
Following this On 11 May, at the conclusion of the 2016 Annual General Meeting review, I am satisfied that the Board is performing effectively.
AGM, I became Chairman following the retirement of Peter Smith, and Tim Freshwater became Senior Independent Director on the As a responsible organisation, we believe that engaging with retirement of Martin Angle.
Under their watch, Savills businesses Shareholders and encouraging an open, meaningful dialogue showed commendable growth and I would like to thank both Peter between Shareholders and the Company is vital to ensuring mutual and Martin for their enormous contributions to the Group.
We are in regular contact with our major Shareholders and potential shareholders through a regular, Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
As a Board scheduled programme of meetings as part of our continuing we are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate commitment to this open and transparent dialogue.
This programme governance and understand that an effective, challenging and included updating Shareholders on the Groups performance and diverse Board is essential to enable the Group to deliver its strategy future strategy and, in particular this year, consulting major and long-term shareholder value.
Further information on our Strategy Shareholders about the renewal of approval for the Companys and Business model can be found on pages 4, 5 and 14.
You can read more about Shareholder engagement on page 51.
My fellow Directors and I look We fully recognise that at the core of every successful organisation forward to continued dialogue and meeting with Shareholders at our is a strong and healthy culture supported by a robust governance AGM in May where I will be happy to answer any further questions.
As custodian of Savills, culture, the Board demands openness and transparency to maintain an environment in which honesty, integrity and fairness are valued and practised by our Nicholas Ferguson CBE people every day.
The Boards behaviour and the values it Chairman of Savills plc demonstrates set the tone to guide our peoples behaviour and 21 March 2017 ensure that we live by and demonstrate the right values.
This in turn enables entrepreneurial and prudent management to deliver long-term success for the Group and its stakeholders.
UK Corporate Governance Code The Company is reporting its corporate governance compliance Ensuring that we do the right thing in the right way requires the right against the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
leadership and it is important in my role as Chairman to ensure that In April 2016, the Financial Reporting Council issued an update to the Board has the right blend of skills and experience.
The Company will report its governance compliance international business, we benefit from our Non-Executive Directors against the revised Code in its 2017 Annual Report.
The Board knowledge of and involvement with businesses in Hong Kong and confirms that during 2016 it has applied the Main Principles set China, Europe and the US.
At least half of the Board members out in the 2014 Code and was compliant with all relevant throughout the year were Independent Non-Executive Directors provisions.
Further information about how the Board complies excluding me, as Chairman.
The details of their skills and experience with the Main Principles is set out on pages 57 to 59 of this are, along with those of the other Board Members, set out on pages Annual Report.
In accordance with the Code, each Director will stand for Savills plc 40 Report and Accounts 2016
