Message from the Chairman and Financial Highlights Message from the Chairman World equity markets were more volatile over the past twelve accordance with this policy, as it believes such transactions to be months than in recent years.
The Scottish Mortgage portfolio was in the long term interests of all shareholders.
not immune to these swings in sentiment, but over the financial Throughout the year, the Managers have continued to focus on year as a whole on a total return basis the Net Asset Value NAV finding the best growth companies for the next five to ten years was broadly flat and the share price fell by a little under 1%, and beyond.
The Managers believe that several industries are in the having been down around 10% at the half year point.
As I have midst of structural change and that these advances are in general observed in previous years, 12 months is too short a period over being driven by just a handful of companies.
This, combined with which to judge performance, given our investment time horizon of the wider market volatility, make it an attractive time to be investing at least five years.
I am pleased to say that performance in individual growth businesses for the long term.
measured over 3, 5 and 10 years remains strong.
Over the past 12 months, a significant number of the Managers Despite the general market backdrop, throughout most of the new investment ideas have been private, rather than public, year demand for Scottish Mortgages shares remained reasonably companies.
The rising number of such unquoted companies firm, with the Companys shares trading around, or at a small within the portfolio was highlighted in the Interim Report and the premium to, NAV for much of the period.
In line with the Board believes that it is now appropriate to set out in the Companys policy of aiding the efficient functioning of the market Companys Investment Policy a maximum purchasing limit which in its shares, Scottish Mortgage both issued shares from Treasury may be reached within the portfolio.
As previously announced, through the year and, on one occasion in early 2016, bought this will be done through a shareholder vote at the AGM on back shares, to alleviate supply and demand imbalances which 30 June in Edinburgh.
were building up in the market.
The Board will continue to act in Financial Highlights Year to 31 March 2016 Share Price -0.7% NAV -0.1% Benchmark -0.5% Source: Morningstar, total return.
280 Share Price pence Share price 270 260 250 240 M AM JJ AS O N D J F M 2015 2016 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Baillie Gifford & Co. 110 NAV and Benchmark Share price total return figures rebased to 100 105 at 31 March 2015 100 NAV total return after deducting borrowings at fair value 95 Benchmark total return 90 85 M AM JJ AS O N D J F M 2015 2016 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Baillie Gifford & Co. 5% Premium Discount NAV Benchmark 4% Premium Discount after deducting borrowings at fair value plotted as at month end dates 3% 2% 1% 0% M AM JJ AS O N D J F M 2015 2016 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Baillie Gifford & Co.
Benchmark: FTSE All-World Index in sterling terms.
Discount Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Baillie Gifford.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 01
