Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Governance Overview This report sets out how Serco is governed and the key activities of the Board of Directors in promoting effective governance during 2016.
Further information on how the Company complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2016 is set out on pages 94 and 95.
Dear Shareholder Contract visits On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the I and many of my fellow Board members have enjoyed Corporate Governance Report for the year ended the opportunity to visit many of Sercos contracts and 31 December 2016.
As in previous years, we report to see, first hand, the excellent day-to-day service against the UK Corporate Governance Code the provision offered by our contract teams.
The visits have Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC given the Board a deeper level of understanding of the and I am pleased to report that our high standards of risks and opportunities faced by our contract teams on a compliance with the Code remain.
The Board believes daily basis, together with the Company-wide challenges that good governance is key to the long-term success regarding the scale and variety of ouroperations.
of the Company and we shall continue to pursue the Changes in the Board comply or explain approach.
In July 2016, Tamara Ingram stepped down from the Corporate governance overview Board following her appointment as Chief Executive As a public services company, strong governance and Officer of J. Walter Thompson Company LLC and her integrity, underpinned by strong values, are key.
I would like to thank Tamara for Boards role is to demonstrate leadership in those her valued contribution during her time on the Board.
This year we have refreshed our Values, helped considered selection process to appoint a successor to determine and update the strategic objectives and Tamara remains underway and further details regarding policies of the Company and set these changes within this process are set out in the Nomination Committee an enhanced risk framework which establishes clear report on page 90. parameters and controls.
We have given necessary During the year, Malcolm Wyman notified the Board of focus to corporate responsibility with further actions his intention to step down with effect from 31 October and achievements in areas including corporate renewal, 2016.
Malcolm joined the Board in January 2013 and health and safety and human rights.
As we move in May 2013 became Chair of the Audit Committee.
through the Transformation stage of the Company's The Board is extremely appreciative of the significant strategy, the various key decisions and matters that contribution that Malcolm has made to the Company are reserved for approval by the Board have been during a crucial time, securing a good foundation upon reviewed be it Board roles or major bids, financial which to build a successful future, and more recently results or governance issues all included within a clear during the process of appointing a new External Auditor governance framework that I have sought to enhance for the Group.
The Board is greatly indebted to the time this year.
and energy Malcolm put into this role.
Focus on new business pipeline and key bids John Rishton joined the Board as Non-Executive During the year, the Board and I have spent time actively Director in September 2016 to enable a handover supporting the Executive management team in their with Malcolm before John became Chair of the Audit detailed review of the Companys bidding activity.
John has extensive The Board has remained focused on ensuring that the executive and non-executive experience and the Groups risk management and internal control systems Board is already feeling the benefit of his considerable are effective in underpinning robust decision-making on knowledge and track record in a range of industries.
At the same time, the Board has continued to John is proving to be a valuable addition to the Board evaluate the performance of existing contracts and has in the areas that are key to further strengthening Serco.
focused with management on the lessons to be learned More detail regarding the selection process that led to from existing Onerous Contract Provisions.
John's appointment is set out on page 90.
76 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Continuity and diversity concluded positively that members of the Board were committed to spending more time on Board discussions, The appointment of John Rishton and the continuing as well as becoming more involved in the development process to appoint a successor to Tamara Ingram are of the strategy and greater focus on risk.
The induction part of a well-managed and progressive process of process was praised and it was acknowledged that, non-executive succession planning, with the aim that the together with ongoing training, this was considered Board as a whole will continue to be diverse and secure important in understanding the Companys key strategic deeper knowledge across the geographies and sectors priorities and emerging issues.
It is the intention of the in which Serco operates.
I am also conscious that, as the Board to carry out an external evaluation in 2017, in line Company continues to implement its new strategy, we with the Code requirements and corporate governance must ensure sufficient continuity, institutional expertise best practice.
Further detail is set out on page 79. and corporate memory within the Board.
The Board notes the recommendations of the recent Hampton-Alexander Shareholder engagement Review of Women in Leadership Positions and the Parker The Board welcomes open, meaningful discussion with Report into Ethnic Diversity on Boards, and notes that we all of our shareholders.
I have met with several of our continue to value all types of diversity as a vital component largest shareholders during the year and Angie Risley, of a balanced, dynamic and effective Board.
As such, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, has separately over time, when we recruit new members to the Board met with a number of advisory bodies and institutional we expect to address the issue of diversity in general and shareholders to discuss our approach to remuneration.
particularly to increase the percentage of women on the I hope shareholders will also take the opportunity to Board currently 22%.
meet with Board members at the 2017 AGM.
Effectiveness In view of the changes to the Board, it was determined that the 2016 evaluation of the Boards effectiveness would be best served by being conducted internally, taking into account the principal themes raised in the Sir Roy Gardner 2015 externally facilitated evaluation.
The 2016 review Chairman What the Board has achieved in 2016 Board priorities for 2017 Supported Rupert Soames and the other Executive Continue to support and challenge improvements Directors in the Companys strategy update in contract execution and cost efficiency, together with seeking to ensure the utilisation of capabilities Focused on ongoing performance of the Group across the wider Group Reviewed and challenged management on Ongoing review and challenge of the bid pipeline the progress of the Companys business and new business opportunities, together with the development pipeline development of the Centres of Excellence Focused on and reviewed a number of key Continued focus on enhancing risk management individual material bids Focus on Board and Senior Management succession Appointed a new Non-Executive Director planning, including a further Board appointment and Audit Committee Chair Support an effective external Board evaluation Spent time with the Divisional management process teams and met regularly with senior management responsible for the delivery of the Companys key Further embedding of the Serco Values within the opportunities and existing contracts, including a culture of the Company number of contract visits in the UK, Australia, New Continue to drive improvements in Health and Zealand, Hong Kong and the US Safety and, specifically, to challenge measures put in Oversaw the introduction of a new Group Risk place to support the reduction in physical assaults Committee and the strengthening of the Companys in prisons risk management processes to ensure this was given Further review of Divisional operations as the Board appropriate attention at Board level continues to focus its time on ensuring the ongoing Refocused the scope and composition of the transformation and strengthening of the Group Board Oversight Committee as the Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, Mike Clasper Effectively re-tendered, transitioned and replaced the Groups External Auditor 77
