Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 65 Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce our Governance report for 2016 on behalf of your Board in accordance with the September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Severn Trent has complied with all relevant provisions at the year end, having expanded the remit of the Audit Committee to consider the adequacy of whistleblowing arrangements this was formerly a matter for the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee as detailed on page 86.
My role, together with the Board, is to ensure that Severn Trent operates to the highest standards of corporate governance within a well-developed framework to effectively deliver the Groups strategic objectives and to meet its obligations to the Companys stakeholders.
Ultimately, effective governance is integral to the Andrew Duff successful delivery of our business objectives.
It requires that the Board has access to timely, relevant and robust information, so it can run the business effectively Chairman and promote the long term success of the Company in the best interest of all stakeholders.
We also have clearly dened values and standards of behaviour which we expect from everyone who works for Severn Trent.
UK Corporate Governance Code ComplianceStatement My focus continues to be on maintaining a strong, value adding team, with a broad The version of the Corporate Governance Code range of professional backgrounds, skills and perspectives.
In March 2016, the applicable to the current reporting period is the Board announced the appointment of Emma FitzGerald as an Executive Director September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code is available on the Financial to the Boards of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited together the Reporting Councils website www.
Board, with effect from 1 April 2016.
Severn Trent Plc was compliant with all relevant Following year end, we announced that our longest serving Non-Executive provisions of the Code except that in relation to Code Directors, Martin Lamb and Gordon Fryett, would retire from the Board after the provision C. 3.5, for part of the year, the review of the adequacy of arrangements of the Companys Annual General Meeting.
I would like to thank Martin and Gordon for their valuable whistleblowing procedures fell within the remit contribution to the Board during their tenure.
At this time, we announced the of the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee, appointment of Kevin Beeston to the Board as a Non-Executive Director, with effect rather than the Audit Committee.
This divergence from 1 June 2016, and the appointment of Dominique Reiniche to the Board as a from the Code was addressed in October 2015.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee have Non-Executive Director, with effect from 20 July 2016. been updated to reect this change and can be found on our website www.
Kevin will succeed Martin as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and will become a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Both the Audit Committee and the CR Committee review reports on all whistleblowing allegations at Dominique will succeed Gordon as a Non-Executive Director and become a member their meetings.
of the Corporate Responsibility and Nominations Committees.
Dr. Angela Strank will succeed Gordon as Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
As can be seen from their biographies on page 67, Kevin and Dominique have a wealth of experience to bring to the Board.
At Severn Trent we have a broad and diverse range of skills and perspectives around the boardroom table, further details of which can be found on pages 66 and 67.
As at the date of this report, our Board consists of nine Directors.
Our Non-Executive Directors continue to bring extensive experience, diversity and challenge to the Board.
I rmly believe that we will continue to deliver value and achieve sustainable growth for our Company through the successful mix of good governance, a clear strategy with a supporting business plan, effective risk management and a strong organisational structure with the right culture in place to execute it.
This Annual Report remains the principal means of reporting to our shareholders on the Boards governance policies and therefore I welcome this opportunity to set out how the main and supporting principles of good corporate governance, as set out in the Code, the FRC Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, have been applied in practice.
For more information on our Corporate Responsibility activities, please refer to our new Corporate Responsibility report which can be found on pages 54 to 63.
I would like to encourage our shareholders to attend our Annual General Meeting.
We welcome the opportunity to meet with you and I hope you will take the opportunity to do so this year.
