Governance Chairmans governance statement Effective corporate governance enabling Shire to dothe right thing, inthe right way.
Effective corporate governance is central Contributing to the Boards knowledge and Index to the Governance section toShires foundation as the leading global experience were the appointments of Gail This section sets out Shires biotechnology company focused on rare Fosler and Albert Stroucken as new governance structure and seeks to diseases.
It underpins all that we do, from Non-Executive Directors.
Both Gail and demonstrate how the main principles the oversight and guidance provided by the Alserved as Directors of Baxalta prior to of the UK Corporate Governance Board, to managements implementation itsacquisition by Shire and bring with them Code the Governance Code were ofstrategy, to the individual and collective avaluable understanding of its operations applied throughout the financial year accomplishments of our valued employees and governance structure.
Effective corporate governance werecently appointed Ian Clark as a third Board is of the opinion that, during enables us to do the right thing, in the newNon-Executive Director.
Following this period, the Company complied rightway.
hisretirement as CEO of Genentech, with the provisions of the Ianbringsan in-depth knowledge of Governance Code.
Published by In a year of transformation for Shire, the thebiotechnology sector and strong theFinancial Reporting Council, maintenance of our high standards of operational experience.
Together, these theGovernance Code is publicly corporate governance has been a priority appointments leave the Board wellavailable atwww.
Over the last 12 months, my positioned to guide the Company and section is comprised of the following fellow Directors and I have reviewed and support management in the ongoing sub-sections: refreshed many of the key policies and execution of our strategy.
frameworks that support the Companys Board of Directors 66 effective operation.
In addition, we have Looking ahead to 2017, the Board will Executive Committee 69 overseen managements continued continue to engage with shareholders integration of Baxalta, confirming that the andother stakeholders on key corporate Chairmans governance combined strategic initiatives of the new, priorities.
Our focus remains on ensuring statement 70 larger company are consistent with Shires that Shire meets its commitment to Board governance 71 focus on growth, innovation, efficiency shareholders: to execute our growth andpeople.
strategy, deliver efficient performance Directors remuneration report 82 anddevelop effective therapies for the Aligned with these corporate priorities, the Additional statutory information 115 patients we serve, all while creating Board has sought to ensure it remains an shareholder value.
Directors responsibilities effective steward for a dynamic and statement 118 high-performing business that operates in a fast-paced and competitive global market.
During the past year, the Board conducted an internal evaluation to consider the skills, experience and diversity of its members and the infrastructure of its operation.
Weassessed the Boards performance Susan Kilsby supporting the business and refined our Chairman succession planning for Directors and management alike.
Further details on the Board performance evaluation can be found on pages 73 to 74.
