SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Introduction to governance The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance LESLIE VAN fide WALLE CHAIRMAN Board diversity Dear Shareholder, Governance within SIG The Board of SIG acknowledges the SIG is committed to business integrity, As Chairman, I take responsibility for importance of diversity in its broadest sense high ethical values and professionalism in ensuring that good governance is operated in the Boardroom as a driver of Board all of its activities.
At SIG, we believe that at SIG in order that we can maintain the effectiveness.
Diversity encompasses good governance comes from an effective highest standards of corporate governance diversity of perspective, experience, Board which provides strong leadership to which we continually aspire.
The Board is background, psychological type and to the Group and engages well with both accountable to the Companys Shareholders personal attributes.
The Board recognises management and stakeholders.
As an for good governance and this Report, the that gender diversity is a significant aspect essential part of this commitment, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages of diversity and acknowledges the role that Group supports the highest standards in 68 to 85, the Audit Committee Report women with the right skills and experience corporate governance.
This section of our on pages 62 to 65 and the Nominations can play in contributing to diversity of report outlines how the Board ensures that Committee Report on pages 66 to 67 perspective in the boardroom.
The Board high standards of corporate governance are describe how the principles of good also acknowledges the work of Sir John maintained.
governance set out inthe Code are applied Parker and his report into the Ethnic within SIG.
Compliance with the UK Diversity of UK Boards.
The Board Diversity The Companys external Auditor, Deloitte Policy is published on the Companys Corporate Governance Code LLP, is required to review whether the website www.
The Board considers that throughout above statement reflects the Companys the year under review, the Company has We reported in last years Annual Report compliance with the provisions of the Code complied with the governance rules and that female representation on the Board specified for their review by the Listing Rules best practice provisions applying to UK had risen to 25%.
The matter continues as contained within the Financial Conduct listed companies as contained in the UK to be reviewed, particularly in light of the Authoritys Handbook and to report if it Corporate Governance Code the Code Hampton-Alexander Review on FTSE does not reflect such compliance.
No such of September 2014 issued by the Financial Women Leaders.
All appointments to the Board will continue The Code can be accessed at LESLIE VAN fide WALLE to be made on merit, however, differences www.
CHAIRMAN in background, skills, experience and other 13 March 2017 qualities as well as gender and ethnicity will Board evaluation be considered in determining the optimum Under the Code, the Board is required to composition of the Board and the aim will undertake a formal and rigorous annual be to balance them appropriately.
evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
In December 2016 the Board conducted an internally facilitated evaluation.
Details of the process concerning this evaluation and its outcome are covered on pages 55 to 56 of this corporate governance report.
