52 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN As Chairman of Sophos Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year-ended 31 March 2016, our first as a UK-listed company, which has been prepared by the Committee and approved by the Board.
"In line with the UK reporting regulations, this report is divided into three sections: The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: The Directors Remuneration Policy, which details Sophos remuneration policies and their link to Group strategy, as well as projected pay outcomes under various performance scenarios: and The Annual Report on Remuneration, which focuses on our remuneration arrangements and incentive outcomes for the year under review and how the Committee intends to implement the Remuneration Policy in FY17 We will be seeking shareholder approval for both our Remuneration Policy and the remuneration report at the Annual General Meeting ""AGM"" on 14 September 2016."
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR FY17 AND FUTURE YEARS Sophos was listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 2015.
In advance of its listing, the Sophos Remuneration Committee reviewed the Companys remuneration structure to ensure it aligns with the forward looking strategy, is able to motivate and retain the executive team over the next key phase in the Companys development, and to ensure it takes into account market practice and best practice for a listed company.
The remuneration structure for Executive Directors, which applies from the date of the AGM, being 14 September 2016, is set out in the Remuneration Policy on pages 53 to 59.
Our policy is broadly unchanged from that outlined in our IPO prospectus, and our remuneration arrangements reflect that we compete for talent in a competitive market against other high-technology US West Coast companies.
The Committee has also carefully considered the expectations of UK institutional shareholders in formulating our policy and has included malus and clawback provisions in our incentive schemes to align with developing best practice.
The overarching principles of our Remuneration Policy are to provide a competitive package of fixed and variable pay that will enable the Group to ensure it can attract and retain executives with the right skills and experience to drive the long-term success of the Company.
The Committee believes that our remuneration arrangements can achieve these goals through the application of stretching performance targets and strong shareholder alignment through our equity incentives.
Information on the implementation of the policy for FY17 is included in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 59 to 65.
REMUNERATION DECISIONS IN FY16 Sophos achieved strong results in the year-ended 31 March 2016, with billings of $534.9 million and cash EBITDA of $120.9 million.
The activities of the Committee and key decisions in FY16 are set out on page 59.
As a result, Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray will receive bonuses of 116 percent and 92 percent of salary, respectively.
Following a review of Group performance and their personal contribution the salaries of the Executive Directors will be increased by 3 percent, effective from 1 July 2016.
This is in line with the average increase expected for the wider employee population c. 3 percent.
"As foreshadowed in the future remuneration policy in our prospectus, in August 2015, Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray were granted awards under the Sophos Group Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 ""LTIP"" in the form of restricted share units vesting over four years subject to continued employment only and in the form of performance share units vesting over three years subject to achievement of annual billings and cash EBITDA targets."
They also received awards related to the IPO in the form of restricted share units vesting over five years subject to continued employment only, as detailed in the prospectus issued as part of the IPO.
The Committee will continue to monitor market trends and developments over the next year in order to assess ongoing relevance for the Companys remuneration practices.
The Committee welcomes feedback from our shareholders as we remain committed to an open and transparent dialogue, and hope to receive your support at the forthcoming AGM.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Paul Walker Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 May 2016 This report, prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee on behalf of the Board, takes account of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the latest Investment Association, ISS and PLSA guidelines, and has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Act requires the Auditor to report to the Companys Shareholders on the audited information within this report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The Auditors opinion is set out on pages 71 to 74 and those aspects of the report that have been subject to audit are clearly marked.
