Introduction to governance The Board is committed A STRONG to promoting the highest standards of corporate GOVERNANCE governance.
Brian Wallace, Chairman FRAMEWORK Dear shareholder, I am pleased to present the Companys Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 July 2016.
This review and the reports of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees that follow summarise the Boards activities during the year.
The Board is committed to promoting the highest standards of corporate governance as we believe this supports the achievement of the Companys strategy and also creates and preserves value for shareholders.
This year has been one of positive change for Softcat.
In November 2015, ourCompany successfully listed on the London Stock Exchange.
As part of thepreparation for the IPO, the Board appointed three Non-Executive Directors, bringing a wealth of public company experience and industry knowledge.
The Board believes that these appointments enhance the leadership of the business as it begins its journey as a public company and provide effective support to the executive team.
Biographical details for all Board members can be found on pages 30 to 31.
28 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Since listing, the Board has continued to strengthen the Companys Directors experience backgrounds governance and risk management structure.
The Board has embarked on aninternal audit review programme and through the Audit Committee has Finance 3 approved a plan for the next two financial years with the newly appointed Marketing 3 outsourced internal auditor.
The Board has also reviewed the Companys risk Operations 6 culture and appetite to ensure that risk and strategy are appropriately aligned and to support the viability statement, published in this report on page 67.
Management 6 Technology 3 The Remuneration Committee has worked to establish and refine appropriate remuneration structures for the executive team and all employees and the Committee is pleased to present the first Remuneration Policy, which is set out on pages 47 to 56.
The Nomination Committee has been primarily focused on understanding the key roles within the business and planning for succession at executive and leadership team levels, recognising the value this has for both our Board composition employee engagement and motivation and in supporting our strategic goals.
The following report explains the main features of the Companys governance Chairman independent structure to enable a greater understanding of how the principles and provisions onappointment 17% of the UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied and to provide Independent insight into how the Board and management team run the business for the Non-Executive Directors 50% benefit of shareholders.
Executive Directors 33% I hope that you will find this Corporate Governance Report both helpful andinformative and we welcome any feedback you may have.
Brian Wallace Tenure of Directors Non-Executive Chairman Director 19 October 2016 M J Hellawell 10 yrs 7 mths B Wallace 3 yrs 5 mths G L Charlton 1 yr 7 mths L Ginsberg 1 yr 1 mth P Ventress 1 yr V Murria 11 mths Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29
