Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance Looking forward to 2017, our priorities will be the development of our talent management, succession and diversity programme, and further enhancement of the Groups ethics and compliance processes.
Dr John Hughes CBE Chairman I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report In 2016, we initiated an external evaluation of the workings of whichdescribes how the Board functions and how it sets the the Board and its Committees, conducted by Dr Tracy Long CBE culture, values and operating framework across the Company.
It was pleasing to receive At Spectris we are committed to maintaining high standards confirmation that the Board is well-functioning and effective, ofgovernance, both at Board level and throughout the Group.
but the process has highlighted the impact that our strategic We see this as fundamental to the effective and responsible ambitions will have upon the work of the Board and this will be management of thebusiness and for the delivery of shareholder a particular focus for 2017 and beyond.
Further details can be value over thelong term.
We particularly emphasise the strong relationship that exists Finally, in 2016, we established a formal Disclosure Committee between ethics and governance and the role of the Board in with the brief to monitor the Companys obligations under the demonstrating ethical leadership.
The standards we require are Market Abuse Regulation in relation to the identification and set out in our Code of Business Ethics, which is communicated release of inside information and restrictions on share dealing.
toall our employees and business partners.
Further details can Yours faithfully befound in the Ethics Report on pages 50 to 52.
Dr John Hughes CBE In 2015, the Board agreed a strategy of renewed emphasis on Chairman growth, including a shift from the supply of products towards 14 February 2017 the provision of complete customer solutions.
Consequently, during 2016, there has been a focus by the Board on transformational initiatives, including positioning the Group optimally to support customer needs as the Industrial Internet Corporate Governance Code ofThings develops, and adding test services, software analytics  and simulation capabilities to existing product technologies.
As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, Spectris Thisrequires the Group to ensure that it has the talent, issubject to the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the resources and capability to deliver on these initiatives.
A copy of the Code can be found at www.
Thetalentmanagement programme, launched in 2015, The Board considers that throughout the financial year ended hasbeenprogressed in 2016 tounderpin this strategy.
31December 2016, and as at the date of this report, the Company was in full compliance with the provisions of the An organisational capability review was undertaken earlier in Code.
This report sets out how the Company applied the theyear.
As a result, we have recruited Andrew Harvey to the principles of the Code during 2016. newly-created role of Group Human Resources Director with aposition on our Executive Committee.
Andrews key focus willbe to identify and implement a talent development and diversity programme to ensure that we have strong teams across ourbusinesses and to develop effective management successionplanning.
