Governance Report Chairmans introduction SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE IS AT THE HEART OF WHAT WE DO At a time of enormous global uncertainty, the Board aims to provide our shareholders with confidence that the Group that can successfully navigate the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead.
Bill Whiteley, Chairman Key points in this section: Sustainable governance Regulatory disclosures required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.
6 can This was a year of change on the Board.
Changes in Board leadership be found on pages 108 to 110.
I would like to thank David Meredith for his andsuccession planning considerable contribution to the Group over You will find the Remuneration Report on 27 years.
We were pleased to welcome pages 83 to 107, where Jane Kingston, the Analysing our appetite for risk KevinBoyd in May 2016 as our Group Remuneration Committee Chairman, outlines Finance Director, and Jane Kingston in compensation in 2016 against performance, I nternal effectiveness review September 2016 as a Non-Executive Director and summarises our three-year Remuneration Policy that will be put to a shareholder vote and, in November, as the newly-appointed Preparing for Brexit at our Annual General Meeting AGM in May Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Annual Report on Remuneration Both Kevin and Jane have proven track S trengthening and refreshing 2016 sets out the details of Executive records of delivering results and their ourcompliance programme compensation throughout 2016, which will appointments reflect the Companys be subject to the normal advisory vote at the commitment to bringing broader sector AGM in May 2017. experience to the Board.
On a personal level, I was very saddened by the loss of A new chapter DrKrishnamurthy Rajagopal in November 2016.
Raj had been a Non-Executive Director From a UK perspective, Brexit was an of the Board since February 2009 and interesting development and one that we Chairman of the Remuneration Committee as a Group are well prepared for, as set from 2014 to October 2016.
I would like to out in more detail on page 29.
As a global Our approach to governance express my sincere gratitude for the many organisation, with over 90% of our revenues Governance helps us to: contributions that he made to the Company and profits generated outside of the UK, we Ensure our shareholders receive a both professionally and personally.
are well-positioned for a UK exit from the good return on their investment EU.
Our Brexit plan has 11 areas of focus, As a Board it is our responsibility to provide ranging from UK and EU customer targeting Behave with integrity strategic oversight of managements direction to a review of IT systems and acquisition of travel for the Group, in order to encourage Treat our customers, suppliers and opportunities.
We have navigated periods innovation and continuous improvement local communities properly of political and economic uncertainty in the whilst providing stability and steady growth for Respect the environment past and have a long and successful history shareholders and stakeholders.
the Boards commitment to ethical business practices and to ensuring the business Key actions during the year operates to the highest standards of In 2016, we paid particular attention to corporate governance.
enhanced succession planning for the Board, In this section of the Annual Report, we as part of our on-going response to the key set out our approach to governance, using recommendations from the 2015 external the five main principles of the Corporate Board effectiveness review conducted Governance Code 2016 see page 67 and by DrTracy Long CBE the findings of the explain how the Board and its Committees review are set out on page 74.
In addition to are structured and their areas of focus during reviewing the tenure of the Non-Executive the year.
Directors in order to ensure independence, we have begun the implementation of a longterm succession plan to ensure key Board 66 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information positions transition smoothly, when required.
Perhaps the most engaging activity for the As a Group we are committed to gender Board in 2016 was our annual strategy Compliance statement equality and, with the appointment of Jane meeting at the Groups new manufacturing Kingston, we are just shy of our minimum and sales facility in Chennai, India in June.
Our Governance Report over the target of 25% female representation on the This was an exciting opportunity to review the following pages explains how the Group Board.
Further information is set out on page progress of the implementation of the Groups has applied the principles and complied 72 in the Nomination Committee Report.
five-year strategic plan, particularly our with the provisions of the UK Corporate increased focus on acquisitions.
The Group Governance Code 2016 Code.
Another key activity this year was the internal made its largest-ever acquisition, Aflex Hose Board effectiveness review.
I am pleased that We are fully compliant with the Limited, for 61.4 million at the end of 2016. this anonymised, internal evaluation of the requirements of the Code, asset Board and our Committees supported the We are currently outperforming our markets out in detail on the Groups website, independent evaluation carried out during as detailed in the Strategic Report beginning www.
com, 2015: confirming that the Board is collegiate, on page 1. under the Governance section.
A summary of the Core values findings and recommendations are set out 1 on pages 73 and 74 of this Report.
The next The Board takes seriously its responsibilities external review is set for 2018, in accordance for promoting the Groups Core Values and, Leadership with the Code.
in particular, for ensuring that all employees Nomination Committee Report and everyone associated with the Group are For the first time this year, the Risk aware of their responsibility to act lawfully and Management Committee implemented a conduct themselves in accordance with high risk appetite review, quantifying the Groups See pages 6872. standards of business integrity.
These values appetite for each of its seven principal are embedded in our Group Management risks.
These ratings will be monitored and Code and driven by tone-from-the-top.
reviewed as necessary to reflect changes 2 in circumstances affecting the Group.
A strong anti-bribery and corruption Effectiveness The appetite ratings also informed the culture is central to the Groups values and Committees work in developing our first all employees are required to undertake Risk Appetite Statement, set out on page 81. anti-bribery training.
Further details are contained in the Strategic examination programme ensures that we Risk and Risk Management Report beginning maintain this position.
on page 28 and the Risk Management This year we formally recognised the 3 Committee Report starting on page 79.
Risk Management Committee as the Accountability The Remuneration Committee was active Groups Ethics Overview Committee and in 2016, refreshing its Terms of Reference Audit Committee Report appointed divisional ethics officers to act Risk Committee Report and updating the Companys Remuneration as another point of contact for employees Policy, in consultation with key institutional with responsibility for overseeing the ethical shareholders.
While the new Remuneration operation of our business within their See pages 7681.
Policy is broadly the same as that approved respective divisions.
To ensure that our by 98.5% of our shareholders in 2014, the suppliers comply with human rights principles Committee proposed some changes to we expect them to adhere to our Supplier 4 the Annual Incentive Plan and Long-Term Sustainability Code, which has been written Incentive Plan awards to bring executive in accordance with international standards Relations with remuneration into line with market practices such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational shareholders so that we continue to attract and retain key Enterprises, the Universal Declaration of talent.
The updated Remuneration Policy will Human Rights, the Core Conventions of the be put to a shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
International Labour Organisation and the UN See page 82.
In addition to Jane Kingstons summary of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human changes in her Report on pages 85 and 86, Rights.
More information on this can be found full details can be found in the Remuneration in our Sustainability Report on page 57.
The Board also took a decision to increase Remuneration In July 2016, the Board responded to the amount that the Group can donate to Remuneration Committee Report the introduction of the Market Abuse legitimate charitable causes, in line with Regulation by amending the Groups Share our community engagement theme of Dealing Code and Insider List and notifying Engineering better futures.
See pages 83107. key employees in order to comply with As a Group our primary focus is education, these stricter rules on the management particularly in the sciences and engineering, and disclosure of inside information, the because we recognise the transformative maintenance of insider lists, the persons impact that education can have on the lives of Fair, balanced and understandable discharging managerial responsibility individuals and the well-being of communities.
notification regime and restrictions on In accordance with the Code, the I am pleased to report that good corporate share dealing.
We have also introduced a Directors confirm that they consider that governance is integrated into our culture at search option for Insider Information on the the Annual Report, taken as a whole, Spirax Sarco.
Regulatory News section of our website, is fair, balanced and understandable I look forward to welcoming you at our AGM www.
and provides the information necessary on Tuesday, 9th May 2017. for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
66 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 67
