Directors Report Chairmans introduction to SSE corporate governance Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Report The Board is committed which sets out the roles and responsibilities of the Board and its Committees, along with an explanation of the work that we have carried to ensuring that the high out during the year.
Corporate governance standards of corporate SSE recognises that a successful and sustainable company is founded upon strong principles of corporate governance.
The Board is therefore governance which are committed to ensuring that the high standards of corporate governance which are embedded within the organisation are maintained, and embedded within the are at the forefront of all that we do.
It is these standards in turn, that underpin SSEs clear strategic, financial and responsibility framework, organisation are maintained, and enable decisions to be taken that create value for future years.
and are at the forefront of The UK Corporate Governance Code This is the first year that we report against the 2014 version of The UK Corporate Governance all that we do.
Code the Code, which is issued by the FRC and is available on their website.
The Code adopts a comply or explain model, which recognises that there are situations where a period of non-compliance may be appropriate, provided good governance can be achieved by other means and the reasons are explained to shareholders.
During the reporting period there have been no material departures from the Code which have been detrimental to the standards of governance that we instil.
However, between the conclusion of the AGM on 23 July 2015 and 1 August 2015, a 9 day period of non-compliance occurred in respect of Code provisions A.
These departures, along with the planned changes to Committee membership to address the non-compliance, were disclosed at the AGM in July 2015 and occurred when succession plans were well advanced.
No formal Board or Committee activity was planned to take place during this time, and a full explanation of the steps taken is provided in the Nomination Committee Report on page 82.
Our position in respect of Code provision C. 3.7, whereby the external audit contract should be put out to tender at least every 10 years remains unchanged.
A detailed explanation of our approach, along with the anticipated timeline for the tender of the external audit contract is set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 88.
Board changes Board evaluation As was outlined in last years Report, a number of The Board recognises the importance of the In this section planned membership changes have taken place evaluation process.
In line with recommended at Board level during the year.
Following an orderly practice, we underwent an externally facilitated 68 Board of Directors hand-over, I became Chairman at the conclusion evaluation in November 2015 having completed 70 Corporate Governance of our AGM on 23 July 2015 when Lord Smith an internal evaluation for the previous two years.
of Kelvin stepped down from the role, and in The findings will help shape the agenda and 70 Leadership line with succession plans we have welcomed activity of the Board going forward, and progress 76 Effectiveness two new non-Executive Directors to the Board.
against the objectives set will be assessed during Crawford Gillies and Helen Mahy joined us on the planned internal evaluation later this year.
78 Accountability 1 August 2015 and 1 March 2016 respectively, The process adopted along with the key findings 79 Relations with with Crawford Gillies assuming the role of Senior of the external evaluation are detailed on pages shareholders Independent Director on appointment.
Further 76 and 77. details of both Crawford Gillies and Helen Mahys 80 Nomination Committee Report Committee membership are provided on page Risk 82 of the Nomination Committee Report, and Risk management and reporting continues to 84 Audit Committee Report information in respect of the ongoing tailored be an area of focus for both the Board and Audit 90 Safety, Health and Environment inductions which all new Directors receive can Committee, with SSEs approach to managing Advisory Committee SHEAC be found on page 77. risk being defined by the Group Risk Management Report and Internal Control Policy which is set by the Board diversity Board.
In order to monitor the Risk Management 92 Remuneration Report The Davies Review published in 2011 set out the Framework, the Board conducts an annual review 92 Chairmans Statement recommendation that all FTSE 100 Boards should of effectiveness which in 2015 16 resulted in a aim for 25% female representation by 2015.
SSE reduction in the number of Principal Risks from 94 At a glance continues to be supportive of the approach set 10 to 9.
During the period a viability assessment 96 Remuneration Policy out in the Davies Review, and recognises that was also conducted to enable development gender diversity plays a vital role in creating a of the Group Viability Statement.
Further 104 Remuneration Report balanced and effective Board.
With the release information on risk management and internal 2015 16 of the five year summary of the Davies Review control can be found in the: Strategic Report in October 2015, we will continue to take account pages 16 to 19 : Directors Report pages 78 and 114 Other Statutory Information of further developments in this area.
I am delighted 84 to 89 : and in the supplementary Group Risk 116 Statement of Directors to report that following the changes outlined Report which is published on the SSE website.
Responsibilities above, the SSE Board currently comprises 33% female representation.
Corporate culture 117 SSEs financial results explained At the heart of SSEs culture is our strategic, Balance and effectiveness is further achieved financial and responsibility framework, which through understanding the needs of the is outlined on pages 8 and 9 of the Strategic organisation, identifying the skills required of the Report.
The framework is focussed on creating Board and recruiting the best individuals for any long-term value, and is designed to support role.
This recruitment follows a rigorous and responsible decision making to ensure SSE independent process, and full details of that continues to deliver for shareholders and used by SSE can be found on pages 81 and 82. customers alike.
Embedded within the The appointment of Crawford Gillies and Helen framework, and our culture in turn, is the SSE Mahy in 2015 16 has indeed contributed to the SET of core values.
These values underpin balance of the Board, as they bring a wealth of everything that SSE does and focus on safety, knowledge and professional experience from service, efficiency, sustainability, excellence and a broad range of work across different sectors, teamwork.
Whilst the Board play a vital role in and I am sure this will be of great value shaping culture and embedding these values, going forward.
it is the hard work and dedication of our 21,118 people who define them.
