Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Chairmans introduction to governance As a Board, we are responsible for the stewardship of the business and are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance across the Group.
We believe good governance enhances business performance as well as our reputation within our market place and across relationships with our stakeholders.
Our approach to governance is outlined in the following report, which describes how we integrate into our business the main principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Codes principles on remuneration are addressed in the Directors remuneration report which is set out on pages 74 to 98.
St. Modwens risk management and internal control framework together with details of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces are described on pages 45 to 52.
We remain mindful of the need for businesses to operate in an open and transparent manner, supported by a strong, accountable cuIture and a clear approach to governance.
In line with the development of our business, our governance framework is kept under close review in order to ensure that shareholders interests are safeguarded and to sustain the success of the Company over Our governance framework the longer-term.
is kept under close review In 2016, and with the support of the Boards Committees, we appointed Mark Allan as Chief Executive: following competitive to sustain success over the tenders we selected KPMG as our external auditors and PwC to longer-term.
provide internal audit services: we reviewed our remuneration policy and consulted with major shareholders on proposed amendments Bill Shannon to it: and we continued to strengthen the risk and control environment.
Non-executive Chairman At this years AGM, resolutions will be proposed to approve the revised remuneration policy for directors and to renew the Companys long-term incentive arrangements for both directors and the wider management population.
The notice of meeting, The Board remains committed to: which includes the special business to be transacted and an Driving the Groups long-term objectives.
explanation of all the resolutions to be considered at the AGM, is set out on pages 166 to 177.
Oversight of operations to ensure competent and prudent management.
I hope that you find the corporate governance section of this report informative and I look forward to seeing you at our AGM in March.
Sound planning and internal control.
Developing leadership and succession plans.
Bill Shannon Maintaining strong relationships with key stakeholders.
Chairman th 6 February 2017 Areas of focus for 2016 17: Following the appointment of Mark Allan as Chief Executive, undertake a review of portfolio and business strategy, with outcomes to be communicated in early summer 2017.
Continue to ensure the business is managed in a prudent Code principles how they are applied and agile manner against the continuing uncertain market environment.
Leadership Remuneration Finalise a risk appetite framework, with associated Continued focus on strategy Prudent oversight of tolerance levels and key risk indicators, to ensure that and itsexecution.
the business continues to operate within an acceptable Leadership Remuneration level of risk exposure.
See pages 58 to 60 See pages 74 to 98 Effectiveness Relations with shareholders A strong, open and effective Board.
Effectiveness See pages 61 and 62 Relations with shareholders See page 63 Accountability Close scrutiny of risks and controls.
Accountability See pages 45 to 52 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 53
