CHAIRMANS LETTER Chairmans letter The highest standards of corporate governance are critical to the effective delivery of our strategy The findings from thisreview have provided me with useful background and context andthe actions from the review will be taken forward.
In 2017 we have commissioned an externally facilitated Board and Committee effectiveness review and I will report on itsfindings and any subsequent actions innext years report.
This governance report sets out the approach the Group takes to governance and describes the structures and processes Jos Vials in place to ensure robust oversight and Group Chairman effective Board decision making.
Dear Shareholder Having spent the vast majority of my career as a Central Banker and more recently I am delighted to have joined Standard atthe International Monetary Fund I am Chartered as your Chairman at this time in acutely aware of the risks facing the global the Groups history.
As I mentioned on page financial system and the competitive and 4, I joined Standard Chartered because it is regulatory landscape within which an extraordinary organisation with a rich StandardChartered operates.
history and enormous potential, serving a remarkably diverse range of clients across I am very aware of the important role that Jos Vials the most dynamic markets in the world.
Standard Chartered plays within the Group Chairman communities in which we operate and the Since I joined the Board in October 2016 importance of maintaining the confidence Ihave spent a great deal of my time ofour shareholders and the Groups wider travelling around our markets, meeting our stakeholders.
As Chairman I am committed clients and regulators, speaking with our to engaging with our shareholders, staff, shareholders and other stakeholders regulators, clients, communities and other to build a deep understanding of the Group, stakeholders to ensure their views areheard.
itsopportunities and potential as well as witnessing our unique culture and ethos I firmly believe that maintaining the highest inaction.
What I have seen is that we have standards of corporate governance, robust clients who are committed to us and conduct and a culture of transparency and talented and energised staff who are trust across the Group is critical to the passionate about the Group, confirming effective delivery of our strategy.
myview that this is truly a unique bank.
A key part of my role as Chairman is to lead I would like to thank my predecessor, the Board, ensuring it is performing its role SirJohn Peace, for his commitment and effectively and has robust succession plans contribution to the Group for almost a in place.
Coinciding with my appointment decade.
Sir John has provided stability and asChairman, Naguib Kheraj was appointed continuity through a period of significant Deputy Chairman, making use of his highly change for the Group, the industry andthe relevant skills and experience.
Sir John provided a Ahead of my appointment as Chairman, thorough handover ahead of stepping down areview of the Boards effectiveness was and my comprehensive induction carried out in 2016, details of which can programme will continue through 2017, befound on page 71. details of which are set out on pages68 to69.
