GOVERNANCE Letter from the Chairman DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance section of ourannual report which sets out how our governance standards support the Boards business growth strategy and which we In 2016 we continued with our believeare critical to itsdelivery.
approach of having a focused In 2016 we continued with our approach of having a focused andproportionate governance framework and we were in full andproportionate governance compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
There were no Board changes during 2016 and framework and we were in full our internal evaluation exercise indicated that the Board processes are generally functioning well.
I will work with the Nomination compliance with the 2014 UK Committee in 2017 to monitor the skill set and experience required for your Board and ensure it keeps pace with the Groups growth Corporate Governance Code and development.
Other areas for continuous improvement highlighted through the evaluation exercise included: throughout the year.
An extension of the time devoted to the annual strategy reviewprocess More scheduled site visits and exposure to the wider management across the group Maintaining levels of training in an environment of fast moving developments in governance I have already put in hand changes to the Board timetable for 2017 to ensure these improvements are implemented.
Your Board has committed to carrying out an externally facilitated evaluation exercise in 2017.
Neil Johnson 2016 saw the creation of a new standing Committee, the Disclosure Chairman Committee, to address the changes to the regulatory environment brought about by the introduction of the Market Abuse Regulation.
Both the Remuneration and Audit Committees had particularly busy years.
The Remuneration Committee dealt with the formulation of aproposed new remuneration policy and associated shareholder consultation exercise.
The Audit Committee carried out a thorough and competitive tender process for the external audit and oversaw changes brought about by bringing the co-sourced internal audit function in house and the introduction into UK law of the EU auditframework.
Finally we have introduced a number of changes to the format of ourgovernance reporting which is set out on the following pages with the aim of enhancing its clarity and which I do hope you find ofbenefit.
NEIL JOHNSON Chairman 6 March 2017 44 44 S Sy yn nt th hom ome er r pl plc c A Ann nnu ua all R Re epor port t 2 20 01 16 6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Board considers that it has complied throughout the financial GOVERNANCE SNAPSHOT year ended 31 December 2016 with the provisions set out in the Board membership and balance September 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Board composition Nationality Application of the code 1 British 6 The main principles of the Code were applied as follows: 1 2 Chinese American 1 4 3 Dutch 1 Leadership and effectiveness 4 Malaysian 1 Operation of the board 3 The activities of the Company are controlled by the Board which, during 2016, comprised two executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 2 Officer are clearly divided between Neil Johnson who heads the Board in his capacity as non-executive Chairman and Calum MacLean who has responsibility for the running of the Companys business as Chief Executive Officer.
The non-executive directors all have wide business and boardroom experience gained in a broad range of business sectors details of which are given on pages Board tenure 46and47.
1 0-2 years 3 1 2 2-5 years 3 The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which 3 5-10 years 1 includes setting long-term objectives for the Group and the 4 10 years 2 4 strategies to be employed in achieving them.
The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive Officer responsibility for the development and preparation of the business plan for the Group 3 and the annual Group budget for recommendation to the Board.
2 Asthe senior executive director, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for all aspects of day-to-day operational control of the Group and execution of the Group strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer has established and chairs an Executive Committee whose other members are the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Counsel and Company Secretary, and the operational vice presidents for theGroup to assist him in the performance of his duties and whichmeets once a month.
The Chairman has available to him theminutes of the Executive Committee and all directors receive amonthly management report comprising business, financial andsafety, health and environmental reviews from the ChiefFinancial Officer.
The Board has established Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Disclosure Committees which are discussed on page 51.
Note A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website www.
