Governance Statement from the Chairman We continue to attract strong and diverse talent to the Board Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman Dear shareholder Board effectiveness As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that the Board Following on from the reviews of Board effectiveness conducted operates effectively with well-informed directors asking the by an external facilitator in 2014 and the Senior Independent right questions and setting the right tone from the top.
Throughout Director in 2015, I led the review process this year.
The review the year, my colleagues and I have focused on learning from the leveraged the output of a number of actions that we as a Board challenging experiences of the 2015 financial year.
We have had undertaken throughout the financial year to improve our revisited how we use our time together and changed the focus of effectiveness and details of the review are set out on page 50. certain of our activities outside Board meetings.
This has enabled Focus for the 2017 financial year us to increase the time we spend discussing longer-term strategic The key areas to which we will continue to devote significant time or industry issues.
at Board and Committee level are as follows: Board composition Safety In my statement at the start of this Annual Report, I have set out the The performance of the Speciality Food Ingredients business key changes to the Board during the year: Virginia Kamsky resigned Strategic initiatives, including acquisition opportunities to focus on her executive commitments and the Nominations Customer engagement Committee undertook a search process which culminated in the Employee engagement appointment of two new non-executive directors, Lars Frederiksen Innovation pipeline and Sybella Stanley, with effect from 1 April 2016.
I am very pleased Talent management and succession planning.
that we continue to attract strong and diverse talent to the Board.
Female representation now equates to 27% of the Board.
Sir Peter Gershon We are working with each new director to develop a tailored Chairman induction programme to enable them to contribute effectively as soon as possible after joining the Board.
More information on the recruitment process and the induction programmes is set out on page 48.
UK Corporate Governance Code We use the Codes key themes to structure how we apply the The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 the Code is the provisions of the Code: standard against which we are required to measure 45 Leadership ourselves for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Throughout the year, from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016, the Company has 48 Effectiveness complied fully with the Code.
52 Accountability 54 Engagement with shareholders and others 62 R emuneration is covered in the Directors Remuneration Report 44 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016
