Directors report: Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS 83 6 4 9 7 2 15 Board gender diversity Board gender diversity % Non Executive Non Executive Director experience Board tenure 10 50 50 1 1 2 8 40 40 1 7 2 30 30 6 1 1 20 20 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 4 33 1 2 10 10 2 22 2 0 0 0 0 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 Executive Group Non Financial services Public sector 0-2 years Board Executive % of women on Board % of women on Board Property Economist 5-6 years Women Men Marketing Materials 7-8 years Media Our Committees Read more on our Nomination Read more on our Audit Read more on our Remuneration Committee on page 69 Committee on page 74 Committee on page 78 54 Taylor Wimpey plc 1.
ROB ROWLEY Chairman Group Legal Director Independent Non Executive Independent Non Executive and Company Secretary Director Director Committee membership Date of appointment Committee membership N R Committee membership Joined July 2011 N A R N A Date of appointment Skills & experience Joined July 2010 Date of appointment Date of appointment James, a solicitor, was previously Joined January 2010 Joined July 2011 Skills & experience GroupCompany Secretary and General Counsel of George Wimpey Plc from Kevin has significant experience of Skills & experience Skills & experience chairing boards of both public and February 2002 until July 2007, when Rob has a wealth of financial, Mike is Chief Executive of Almacantar, he was appointed to the same position private companies and of being a non commercial and management expertise, aprivate property investment and executive director and a member of with Taylor Wimpey plc, following the principally from his time as Finance development company which he merger.
Before joining the Group, James audit, nomination and remuneration Director of Reuters plc and Deputy founded in February 2010.
He also brings a wealth of held senior legal and company secretary Chairman of Cable & Wireless plc.
He a number of senior roles in the property roles in industry which included commercial, financial and high level has substantial experience as a non sector, most recently as an executive management experience including being positions with The Rugby Group Plc and executive director including the chairing board director of Land Securities plc.
a former CEO of a FTSE 100 company.
of audit committees and has recent and Prior to that position, Mike was Head James oversees compliance with legal Kevin was formerly Chairman of Serco relevant financial experience as required ofLeasing and Marketing for Canary Group plc and also of Domestic and and regulatory obligations and also by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
He has previously manages the Companys Legal and General Limited: and was previously Rob was previously Deputy Chairman of held a number ofsenior positions anon executive director of IMI plc.
He has within the property industry including Cable and Wireless plc, a director of significant legal, commercial, Reuters Plc, and a non executive with the British Council for Ofces, External appointments transactional and regulatory corporate the City Property Association, and director of Prudential plc: Taylor Nelson Kevin is Chairman of Equiniti Group plc governancerelated experience.
Sofres plc: and Intu Properties plc.
as Chairman of the Regeneration and is a non executive director of both and Development Committee of the Severn Trent plc and The Football External appointments 5.
KATE BARKER DBE British Property Federation.
Rob is the senior independent director Independent Non Executive Mike has in-depth expertise in land of moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC: development and marketing, Director 2.
PETE REDFERN senior independent director and particularly in London, gained from Chairman of the audit committee of Committee membership his previous roles.
Chief Executive Greene King plc: a non executive N A R Date of appointment director and Chairman of the audit External appointments committee of Morgan Advanced Joined July 2007 Mike is a Fellow of the Royal Institution Date of appointment Materials plc: and Camelot Group.
of Chartered Surveyors, a Trustee of Joined April 2011 Skills & experience the Royal College of Surgeons of Pete was previously Group Chief 9.
HUMPHREY SINGER Skills & experience England and a Governor of the Executive of George Wimpey Plc and, Southbank Centre.
Kate is a business economist and was Independent Non Executive before that, successively held the posts previously a member of the Bank of Director of Finance Director and Chief Executive of 7.
ANGELA KNIGHT CBE Englands Monetary Policy Committee George Wimpeys UK Housing business.
Committee membership Independent Non Executive Pete has full day to day operational During this period, Kate also led two N A Director responsibility for delivering the Companys major policy reviews for Government, strategy in a profitable, safe and on housing supply and on land use Date of appointment Committee membership environmentally responsible manner.
Before joining the MPC, she Joined December 2015 N A R has significant financial, operational and was Chief Economic Adviser at the CBI.
management experience, gained from his Kate was awarded a CBE in 2005 for Skills & experience Date of appointment various roles in industry and from his time services to social housing and a DBE Humphrey has a wealth of financial Joined November 2016 at KPMG.
in 2014 for services to the economy.
experience and expertise in the areas Kate is an industry-recognised of both digital solutions and customer Skills & experience External appointments economist who also brings a wider services.
He is Group Finance Director Angela brings to the Board a wealth of Pete is a non executive director of Travis economic insight gained through her of Dixons Carphone plc, a role to which experience gained at a senior level in Perkins plc, where he is also Chairman of various roles, including as a Member he was appointed in 2014.
Humphrey both the public and private sectors.
the Stay Safe Committee and a member of the Oversight Board of the Ofce was previously Group Finance Director Previously, Angela was a member of of the Remuneration Committee.
He is for Budget Responsibility.
of Dixons Retail plc and held senior Parliament from 1992 to 1997, including also a Trustee of the homelessness finance-related roles within Dixons, two years as the Economic Secretary at charity Crisis and a member of the board External appointments including as Group Financial Controller, HM Treasury and was also successively of the Home Builders Federation.
Kate is a Trustee Director and Chairman and prior to that with Coca Cola Chief Executive of the Association of of the British Coal Superannuation Enterprises.
Private Client Investment Managers and 3.
RYAN MANGOLD Scheme: a non executive director of the Stockbrokers: the British Bankers External appointments Yorkshire Building Society: and will join Group Finance Director Association: and Energy UK.
the Board of Man Group plc as a non Humphrey is Group Finance Director Angela has extensive non executive Date of appointment executive director with effect from of Dixons Carphone plc.
director experience and her previous Joined November 2010 1 April 2017. roles have included Lloyds TSB plc: Skills & experience Scottish Widows: Logica plc: and Transport for London.
Ryan has operational responsibility for managing the Companys nances and External appointments also oversees commercial and Angela is Chairman of the Ofce of Tax pensions.
He has financial, treasury, risk Simplication in HM Treasury: senior and financial control expertise including N R A represents membership of, independent director of TPICAP Plc: that gained from his five years as Group respectively, Nomination, Audit and or and a non executive director of Financial Controller of Mondi Group and Remuneration Committees.
Arbuthnot Latham & Co. earlier whilst holding a number of senior represents chairmanship of the finance roles with Anglo American plc Committee.
Ryan previously held the post of Group Financial Controller of Taylor Wimpey plc.
co. uk Directors report: Governance CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DEAR SHAREHOLDER In my capacity as Chairman of the Board, I am very pleased to again have this opportunity to make a personal statement on the Companys approach to corporate governance.
Firstly, I would like to emphasise again that the Board continues to take corporate governance very seriously and has been able to demonstrate this over many years with full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The requirements of the Code are summarised in the table on page 66 where we have included a signpost directing you to the relevant page which sets out in detail how the Company has complied with the various provisions.
To demonstrate the Boards proactive approach to corporate governance, where possible, the Company has consistently sought to comply with planned improvements to the Code, and with wider governance initiatives, often in advance of their formal application to our reporting years.
The Board receives regular briengs and updates on corporate governance, both at Board and Committee meetings and, where necessary in between such meetings.
This report on corporate governance aims to set out and explain in clear terms the governance-related processes and procedures in place at Taylor Wimpey which we believe are essential for delivery of the long term success of the Company.
It is these processes that ensure we comply with all applicable laws and regulations as well as, of course, meeting the requirements of our shareholders and their representative bodies, with whom we are always very pleased to engage and proactively did so again during 2016 and into 2017.
Culture, values and ethics The Board strongly believes that good governance should be focused not only on how the Board itself operates effectively but also, and very importantly, on the culture within which all of our businesses operate and conduct themselves on a day to day basis.
The culture, values and ethics set out in the Chief Executives Statement on page 19 are set by the KEVIN BEESTON, Chairman Board and led in our operations by the Chief Executive and the rest of our Executive and Senior Management Teams.
The principles of good governance are embedded throughout the organisation and by way of example, manifest themselves in a number of different ways, including BOARD HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2016 the following: Fully met all of the requirements of the UK Corporate an absolute and non-negotiable requirement to ensure the health GovernanceCode.
Please see page 66 and safety of our employees, customers, subcontractors, suppliers Fully met all of the requirements set out in the Financial and visitors to our ofces and developments.
Please see page 60: Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk, Internal Control and the requirement to observe good business practice, including abiding Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Please see page 75 by all applicable laws and regulations that relate to our business.
Made good progress towards achieving our strategy for Please see page 62: improving diversity and inclusivity at all levels throughout the the provision of mandatory training on key legislation and regulations Groups businesses.
Please see page 73 to all of our business units: Conducted a comprehensive  Board our Group-wide control document setting out delegated authority Evaluation during 2016.
Please see page 67 limits: Further developed and enhanced the Companys succession a system of controls and checks underpinned by a rigorous Internal and contingency planning across the Group.
Please see Audit Department and overseen by the Audit Committee: page 71 regular and embedded risk assessment and monitoring processes.
Implemented immediate and appropriate operational Please see page 75: and procedures following the outcome of the United Kingdom European Union Referendum.
Please see page 16 encouraging and investigating any disclosures made either directly or through an independent whistleblowing hotline.
In compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015, we prepared our first statement and related processes and procedures for Governance developments during the period the business and its supply chain.
Please see page 100 There were a number of significant developments in the area of corporate Conducted an external appraisal of the Companys procedures governance during 2016.
For example, the Governments Department for for dealing in the Companys shares in response to the Market Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS announced in September Abuse Regulations which came into effect on 3 July 2016 that it is conducting enquiries which will focus on directors duties: executive pay: and the composition of boardrooms including worker representation and gender balance in executive positions.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC updated the Code so as to require, for financial years commencing on or after 17 June 2016, a greater focus on the culture, values and ethics of companies that underpin good corporate 56 Taylor Wimpey plc governance.
The FRC and other organisations announced that they are looking for Nomination Committees to be more proactive in managing BOARD COMMITTEES both short term and longer term succession planning for the Board and the executive levels of senior management immediately below Board level, CHAIRMAN OF THE and also in ensuring that the necessary skill sets are developed to assist NOMINATION COMMITTEE the Board in effectively driving the Companys strategy.
The Executive Kevin Beeston Remuneration Working Group also issued recommendations aimed at Read more about this Committee rebuilding trust in executive pay levels, allied to the subsequent issue of on page 69 revised guidance in this area by a number of shareholder bodies.
The aim of these initiatives is to ensure that good governance goes deeper than simply box ticking and they were all reviewed and welcomed by the CHAIRMAN OF THE Board as they are designed to help to provide shareholders and all of our AUDIT COMMITTEE stakeholders with increased assurance that the Company is being Rob Rowley managed with their best interests rmly in mind.
Read more about this Committee Board evaluation on page 74 A key requirement of good governance is ensuring that the Board itself is operating effectively.
The carrying out of an annual evaluation is a very CHAIRMAN OF THE important exercise and it is one which I and all members of the Board REMUNERATION COMMITTEE take very seriously, whilst also recognising the focus that our shareholders Kate Barker place on it.
In line with the Code, the Board conducts its annual evaluation Read more about this Committee exercise via an independent external facilitator once every three years and on page 78 it was last carried out in this way in 2014.
Consequently the evaluation for 2016 was conducted internally by myself and the Company Secretary, and was based on a comprehensive and updated process which involved all Directors.
Board activities The exercise considered the effectiveness of the Board, each Board Committee and each Director, and also focused on the Boards approach This Report also seeks to explain what your Board of Directors actually to key governance issues such as diversity and risk.
does and describes how it is responsible for setting the culture and values of the Company, ensuring that the Company is run in the best interests of As part of the Board evaluation, the Board carefully considered the time its shareholders as well as other stakeholders, and how it interacts with its commitments of all Directors in line with the requirements of the Code.
shareholders in explaining the Companys strategic goals and performance Following its review, the Board was satisfied that each Director was able against them.
From a governance perspective, it is not just a case of what to allocate sufficient time to discharge his or her responsibilities to the is done but also, and just as importantly, how it is done.
In light of this, we Company effectively.
This included not only attendance at Board and therefore try and avoid a simple box ticking type approach to corporate applicable Committee meetings where attendance was 100% during governance, preferring our own governance to be something that is 2016 for all Directors, save for Humphrey Singer as noted immediately properly embedded in our people, processes and decision making at all below, but also for preparation time for meetings, visits to our businesses levels and vested in the personal values of all Directors.
and other additional requirements that may be required from time to time.
As a Board we review health, safety and environmental performance at Humphrey Singer missed two meetings of the Board and one meeting every Board Meeting and also regularly review: our business strategy: of the Audit Committee.
In the first case, this was due to an unavoidable key risks: the market: operational matters: customer services: human clash with a pre-existing commitment which had been discussed and resources: diversity: corporate responsibility: community engagement: agreed prior to his appointment to the Board in December 2015.
In the our financial position and performance: governance, compliance and legal remaining cases, he missed a Board meeting and the preceding Audit matters: and shareholder-related matters including the make up of our Committee due to an unanticipated commitment at Dixons Carphone plc, share register and investor relations programme.
This is done through the where he is Group Finance Director, which occurred following the United consideration and discussion of regular reports submitted by the Executive Kingdom European Union Referendum.
On each occasion Humphrey Directors and through other reports and presentations from oursenior received the reports for the meeting: was given the opportunity to management and external advisers.
The Board and individual Directors also express his views on the subject matter prior to the meeting: and was undertake regular visits to our regional businesses and theirdevelopment comprehensively briefed following the meeting on the main matters sites, which has proved to be both very useful and veryeffective.
arising by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
Consistent with previous exercises, the 2016 evaluation proved to be very Appointments and succession useful.
Whilst it was pleasing to note that the exercise concluded that the There were two changes to the composition of the Board during 2016.
Board continues to function very well, it also provided an opportunity to On 1 November 2016 Baroness Margaret Ford stepped down as an reect on how we operate and where we can improve.
I can confirm that Independent Non Executive Director after three and a half years service, the Board has already focused on the areas identied for improvement including over two years as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
and will continue to do so during the course of 2017.
We were very pleased to appoint Angela Knight as an Independent Details of this years evaluation: its outcome: the actions planned by Non Executive Director on 1 November 2016.
Angela is Chairman of the the Board during 2017 to address the issues raised: and the actions Ofce of Tax Simplication in HM Treasury and brings with her a wealth taken during 2016 to address the issues raised in the last also internally of experience gained at senior level in both public and private sectors.
facilitated evaluation conducted in 2015 and reported in last years On appointment, she also joined each of the Board Committees, namely, Annual Report, are set out on page 67. the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, where her wide experience will be of considerable assistance to the Board and will complement our existing skill sets.
