50 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDER I hope that you will have taken from our Strategic Report that central Through our Nominations Committee we continue to keep the to our strategy is our philosophy of putting our Customer at our composition, independence, diversity and skill set of our Board under Heart of everything we do.
I believe to achieve this, we must create close review and during the year the Committee recommended a customer-centric culture which emanates from the Board and is the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, Lesley Knox.
underpinned by a strong corporate governance framework.
Lesley brings with her a wealth of international and business experience, along with a strong non-executive directorship As part of our annual calendar of Board meetings, we held meetings background, particularly in the area of remuneration, gained on the in the Head Offices of our French business in Paris and in our boards of a range of listed companies.
I value the fresh perspectives key destination Turkey, where we spent time with our colleagues and challenge to management that new Non-Executives bring and who work in our retail stores, and on the ground in-destination, look forward to benefiting from Lesleys insight.
Our CEO and CFO held quarterly business reviews with about our Board appointment process can be found in the management of every source market, and made regular visits to our Nominations Committee report on page 63. businesses across the Group.
Specific attention was paid to customer care.
In this regard, our CEO and CFO visited our customer call centre in Falkirk where they spent time with our UK colleagues who A customer-centric culture provide telephone support to our customers.
Our colleagues shared their experiences with us and helped us gain a real insight into the which emanates from the customer journey and how it can be improved.
Board and is underpinned I believe these activities are important in giving the Board a real feeling for the evolving culture of the business and I was delighted byastrong corporate by the support and enthusiasm demonstrated by our colleagues for governance framework.
our Customer at our Heart initiatives.
As a Board, we have kept a close eye on work to implement the recommendations from Justin Kings independent review of the Groups customer, health, safety, Again this year, I oversaw a robust internal Board effectiveness welfare and crisis management practices, and we are pleased with review.
The review helped us identify ways we can use our time the progress that has been made.
As detailed in our Strategic Report more effectively and in conjunction with the time spent considering on page 23, we have seen a further improvement in the results of succession planning, identify the skills and experience we should look our annual Group-wide employee engagement survey Every Voice, for when we next recruit a Non-Executive Director more information with our Core Index score increasing to 76% compared with 74% about this can be found on page 58.
We also spent considerable last year.
I was particularly pleased that the survey showed an time reviewing the top 100 roles in the business and considering how increased awareness of our Code of Conduct and Values amongst our these feed into our executive pipe line.
I believe our Code of Conduct gives us a great opportunity to set the tone throughout the organisation and am pleased to report I am pleased to report that during the year we fully complied with the we will be rolling out an updated version for the Group in early 2017. provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and believe we enter FY17 with a strong corporate governance framework well equipped to I am committed to ensuring that both the Board and its Committees protect Shareholder value, make Thomas Cook a great place to work, take decisions that reflect the culture we wish to instil in the and be the best-loved holiday Company by our customers.
business and drive the right behaviours.
You will see from our Remuneration Report that customer satisfaction measured through NPS, and employee engagement ratings, were introduced as FRANK MEYSMAN CHAIRMAN performance measures under the bonus schemes for both executives and senior management for FY16.
NPS is an important KPI for us and 22 November 2016 more information about it can be found on page 22.
Furthermore, top of the agenda of our Health, Safety and Environmental Committee has been customer safety and welfare.
