42 Governance report Chairmans governance review T here is increasing recognition of the fact that corporate culture plays an important part in how companies perform successfully.
Rupert Robson Chairman Dear shareholder To that end we have been considering On behalf of the Board, I am pleased both the effectiveness and composition to introduce our report on corporate of our Board.
During the fourth quarter, governance for 2016.
It outlines how we the Board undertook an evaluation continued to apply good governance exercise conducted by Independent practice by following the principles and Audit, a review which also encompassed provisions of the UK Corporate Governance the performance of the Boards committees.
Code the Code throughout the year.
We discussed the recommendations at the December Board meeting.
As one Following the Code does not just mean consequence, we will be searching for two ensuring the Board has the right mix of new Non-executive Directors, one from the talents, operating in the most effective Americas and another from Asia, so the manner, though we have been working to Board has more global representation.
There is increasing recognition There is more detail on both of these of the fact that corporate culture plays an matters in the following pages.
important part in how companies perform successfully while managing risk, and that Culture and relationships this culture should be set and lived by the It is widely accepted that one of Board.
This, too, we have been working on, the main roles for a Board is to establish, and I will describe these matters in further exemplify and reinforce the culture, values detail below.
The financial services sector is under the spotlight in Leadership and effectiveness this regard, more so than most sectors.
We are not a different company simply because we have made an acquisition and We firmly believe a sound culture, with rebranded, but we are a new company in strong and visible buy-in from the Board, that we are now leaders in our market, is fundamental to the success of our strategy following the acquisition of ICAP.
The Board and our business, which is why we have needs to ensure that, by the time we have been working on our Company culture integrated the businesses, we will have for a number of years.
You will find a short created the worlds leading interdealer summary of this work on page 39.
In broker on merit, and that means on the essence, we take a rounded approach quality of the job our brokers do for their focusing on risk mitigation and conduct clients, not just on the number of brokers while at the same time cultivating an we have.
This, for me, is the link between employee value proposition to attract and governance and strategy.
retain the workforce we want.
Ultimately, we want an organisation that is prosperous, energetic and ambitious and that is always honest and transparent, a high quality organisation that is both the best in its sector, and the best behaved.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 43 Following the successful pulse survey in During 2016, the Remuneration Committee Conclusion October 2016, completed by both Tullett conducted a full review of our remuneration In summary, I consider the Board and Prebon and ICAP employees, we will be policy.
As stated in last years Annual Report, Company to have fully met their obligations putting in place a global training and we will be seeking shareholder approval for as regards governance during 2016.
We will development policy to help support a new policy at our AGM in 2017.
This new continue to do so throughout 2017 as we employees during the integration period.
policy strongly aligns the interests of undertake the major task of successfully This will start in early 2017.
During the management and shareholders with the integrating ICAP and developing our process of acquiring ICAP we have enjoyed successful integration of the recently business into the leading interdealer a considerable amount of shareholder acquired ICAP business over the next three broker on any measure.
communication, and I am grateful to all years.
The Board and the Remuneration Rupert Robson our shareholders for their support, and to Committee are hugely aware of the climate Chairman those who have provided feedback.
You concerning the topic of remuneration.
This 14 March 2017 can find further information on shareholder policy is being put forward to shareholders engagement later in this section, and more after a first round of consultation with the We have complied fully with the UK detail of employee programmes, and majority of our register and then a second Corporate Governance Code issued by relationships with other stakeholders, round of intensive and constructive the Financial Reporting Council FRC on page 39. consultation with our leading shareholders.
in September 2014, throughout the year We are especially grateful to our top ended 31 December 2016.
A copy of the Accountability and remuneration shareholders for their prompt and helpful Code can be found on the FRC website, This year we completed the first full-year response which has determined the structure www.
uk cycle of the Risk Committee, which we set out in the proposed new policy.
The Committee summary, the profile of the proposed new In April 2016, the FRC updated the Code, has made good progress in strengthening remuneration structure has been pushed publishing a revised UK Corporate ourrisk policies and infrastructure, and in out to the end of the 2017-2019 period and Governance Code.
The revised Code is preparing for the ICAP acquisition.
Illustratively, the Chief Executives notapplicable to the Company for the year annual remuneration salary and bonus will ended 31 December 2016 and will apply During 2016 the Nominations Committee accordingly be very substantially lower in tothe year ending 31 December 2017. reviewed in depth the appropriate 2017 than in 2016 in order to motivate governance structure of TP ICAP and has behaviours aimed at maximising the considered both immediate and long-term creation of shareholder value over the succession plans.
This year the Audit medium term.
The rest of the GEC will also Committee was engaged in a number of participate in the same scheme as the workstreams as detailed on page 52.
Executive Directors to ensure internal alignment.
You can find further details in the Remuneration Committee Report in the following pages.
