GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN As a Board, we have a collective responsibility to shareholders for the sustainable long-term success of Vectura.
We believe that a strong and balanced corporate governance framework is the foundation of a successful organisation.
Bruno Angelici Chairman Dear shareholder andin this role James had responsibility for the development of On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate AstraZenecas Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity RIA governance report for the year ended 31 March 2016. strategy, which included the acquisitions of Almiralls respiratory business and Pearl Therapeutics.
Dr Per-Olof Andersson was As a Board, we have a collective responsibility to shareholders for appointed to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director the sustainable long-term success of Vectura.
We believe that a strong with effect from 1 April 2015. and balanced corporate governance framework is the foundation of a successful organisation.
We adhere to the principles-based Merger with Skyepharma PLC approach set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, Upon completion of the proposed merger with Skyepharma, whilst recognising that our governance structure must be appropriately AndrewOakley, Vecturas CFO and Company Secretary, will leave tailored to suit the needs of our business.
the Vectura Board, as will John Brown.
Andrew will be replaced onthe Board byAndrew Derodra, Skyepharmas CFO, who will Our corporate governance framework is built with a focus upon become CFO ofVectura.
At the same time, Vectura will appoint effective leadership, clear communication, risk management and Frank Condella and Dr Thomas Werner, both currently Non-Executive acommitment to a culture of openness, honesty and integrity.
Directors of Skyepharma as Non-Executive Directors of Vectura.
Thisframework is embedded within the culture of our organisation Oneadditional existing Vectura Board member will also leave the through our core values and our underlying policies, procedures Board, reducing the size of the Board to eight within 18 months and management processes.
Complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code Evaluating Board effectiveness I am pleased to report that throughout the financial year, and The annual Board performance evaluation was conducted internally tothedate of this report, Vectura has fully complied with the during the year and, following this process, it was concluded that principles and provisions set out in the Code.
We will continue the individual members of the Board continue to be effective in toadhere to the Code and we will monitor developments and their roles and that they have the necessary skills and experience implement improvements in our governance framework during tofulfil their duties.
Details of the evaluation process and the theyear ahead.
outcome can be found on page 58 of this report.
Diversity and leadership Communication with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of diversity, in its broadest sense, The Board maintains its commitment to maintaining an open dialogue at all levels within the organisation.
When making appointments with our shareholders.
All of Vecturas Directors will be in attendance tothe Board, we have due regard for gender diversity: however, at our Annual General Meeting AGM on 7September 2016 and will allappointments are ultimately made on merit.
be available to meet and address any questions from our investors.
There have been significant changes to Board membership during the year.
Chris Blackwell stood down as Chief Executive with effect from 1 July 2015.
The Board, with the support of independent external advisors, appointed James Ward-Lilley as Chris successor.
James Bruno Angelici joins us having spent 28 years invarious roles within AstraZeneca Chairman and, most recently, was Vicepresident respiratory, inflammation 25 May 2016 &autoimmunity, Global Product and Portfolio Strategy GPPS Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 51
