Vesuvius plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Vesuvius values encourage creativity, cooperation Chairmans Governance and integrity.
By living these values we have Letter established a culture that responds to business challenges in an innovative, sustainable and eff ective manner, for the bene t of all our stakeholders.
John McDonough CBE Chairman Dear shareholder, Non-executive Director to join the Board and I am pleased to report In another challenging year for our business, the Board has remained that encouraging progress is being made.
committed to the highest standards of governance, continuing to The Boards formal evaluation process, which was again externally believe that robust governance and culture underpin business success.
facilitated this year, highlighted the Boards composition and its In 2016 the Audit Committee conducted a competitive tender for dynamics as particular strengths.
It also highlighted that executing the external audit and the Remuneration Committee reviewed the the Group strategy, focusing on succession planning, developing Directors Remuneration Policy for presentation to shareholders at the the next generation of exceptional senior managers, and identifying 2017 AGM.
Further details are contained in the Committee Reports.
and managing risk, remain critical areas of Board focus for the In addition, during the year, alongside its usual formal consideration coming year.
of the Groups control framework, the Board undertook a cleanIn 2016 the Board widened its focus on succession planning issues, sheet review of its key risks and uncertainties, reconsidering which additionally reviewing the management levels immediately below risks are speci cally signi cant for our business.
This analysis supported the Board both in terms of securing a pipeline of talent for future the Boards deliberations on business strategy and performance, leaders of the business and encouraging and enabling the diversity and formed the background to the Boards discussions on Viability.
This focus on succession planning at executive and senior The results of this review can be found on pages 20 and 21. management levels is ongoing.
Our Viability Statement can be found on pages 19 and 20.
As part of its commitment to training and development, during the Corporate Culture year the Board visited the Companys and a customers facilities in Monterrey, Mexico.
The Board also heard from external advisers The publication, in July 2016, of the Financial Reporting Councils on legal, financial and governance issues during the year.
The Audit FRC Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards refreshed Board Committee conducted two deep dives led by management on cyber debate on how to set the right tone from the top for the Groups risk and pension issues.
The Board conducted a two-day strategy corporate culture.
The Board takes seriously its responsibility for meeting in June, which enabled the Non-executives to examine shaping the culture of the Group, seeking to ensure that our values and challenge executive managements plans for future growth.
and ethical stance are re ected consistently in our behaviours and The Board also engaged directly with senior managers through that this is embedded in the business by the Chief Executive and business presentations at Board meetings, informal discussions at management team.
As a Board we support the FRCs view that the Board dinners and through individual Director visits to operations.
correct corporate culture provides a competitive advantage and is vital The Board will continue to operate an open-access policy to Vesuvius to the creation and protection of long-term shareholder value.
In 2016 staff members to promote transparency within the Group.
we reinforced this culture with a relaunch of our Code of Conduct and Speak Up processes, underpinning our ongoing work to ensure that Looking Ahead Vesuvius values, culture, strategy and business model are aligned and that they position the Company for success.
Your Board promotes a culture of openness, transparency and honest debate, setting the tone for the wider businesses.
Each Board member UK Corporate Governance Code fully contributes their expertise, knowledge and experience to Board discussions, with the central objective of securing the continued The Company remains fully compliant with the current UK Corporate success of Vesuvius.
As stewards of your Company, and with your Governance Code the Code, being the version of the Code support, the Board looks forward to continuing to discharge its applicable to these financial statements.
In April 2016, the FRC duties on your behalf through 2017 and beyond.
published a revised version of the Code which included minor changes following the implementation of the European Unions Audit Yours sincerely Regulation and Directive.
We have re ected on these and I am pleased John McDonough CBE Chairman to report that we are also compliant with these new requirements.
2 March 2017 Board Composition, Evaluation and Training In this section: Also see: Maintaining the correct balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, and on the Committees which support it, is crucial Board effectiveness on p65 Risk on p19 to the Groups success.
The Board remains strong and effective and Board accountability on p68 Principles on p52 your Directors draw on a diverse range of experience to enable Audit Committee report on p70 constructive debate in the boardroom.
This is candid, informed and Nomination Committee report inclusive, and presents appropriate support and constructive challenge on p77 to management.
In September, Nelda Connors stepped down from Directors Remuneration Report her role as a Non-executive Director, due to the increasing demands on p79 of her other responsibilities.
A process is underway to identify a new
