William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 48 Chairmans introduction Good governance and strategic leadership ina demanding year for the Board Your governance report this year explains the main areas of the Boards focus in 2016, achallenging year on a number of levels, and theeffective governance processes that supported key decision-making at critical times.
We look forward to 2017 with a further strengthened Board, a clear strategy and renewed optimism.
Gareth Davis Chairman Mark Summerfield also joined as Interim Introduction Evolving composition of CFO on secondment from KPMG theBoard 2016 was undoubtedly a demanding following Philips transition to Interim CEO.
year for William Hill, requiring the Boards In July the Company announced that Although Mark is not appointed to the already effective governance processes James Henderson would step down as Board, he does attend each Board meeting.
to respond to and support strategic Chief Executive Officer CEO and from the Mark, an experienced accountant and and operational decision-making in Board.
The Board spent time deliberating auditor, has provided continued leadership different contexts.
I would like to thank the decision at specially convened of the Finance function while providing all the members of the Board for the meetings of the Board, Nomination and Philip, the rest of the Board and the Group important additional time and flexibility Remuneration Committees.
The Board Executive with high-quality support and they committed to the Group during 2016, would like to record their thanks to James fresh perspectives.
The decision to appoint facilitating the responses to challenges for his significant contribution to the Mark was approved by the Nomination discussed later and elsewhere in this report.
business over his 30-year career with Committee and endorsed by the Board.
The Groups employees also contributed Board succession planning and the significantly during the year, for which I The Nomination Committee, having optimum composition of the Board was commend them.
Our employees have carefully considered the situation, one of my most important considerations performed consistently through periods recommended with the Boards during 2016.
During the year the of considerable flux and change, helping to endorsement the appointment of Philip Nomination Committee reviewed the drive the Boards strategic initiatives.
Bowcock previously CFO as Interim Boards collective skill set and decided CEO.
The appointment also served to that additional digital, multi-channel and As shareholders might expect, the primary provide continuity at Executive level gambling industry experience would be focus of my attention as Chairman in 2016 during a period in which the Group was the beneficial.
Following a comprehensive has been the evolving composition of the subject of significant corporate activity.
search process, the Board approved Board, leading the Boards response to Philip continues in his role as Interim the appointment of three additional corporate activity involving the Group, CEO and has exceeded the Boards Non-executive Directors: John OReilly and liaising with significant investors and expectations.
He has refocused strategy, and Robin Terrell from 2 January 2017 stakeholders on different matters.
overseen operational improvements, and Mark Brooker from 3 April 2017. overseen better performance in the Online The appointments further strengthen the business, and he has taken responsibility Boards sector experience and its blend of for reshaping the Executive team.
I look forward to the added contribution the new Non-executive Directors will bring to the Board.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 49 Governance Financial statements At the time of writing, the succession The business continues to focus on Strategic formulation process for the permanent CEO is ongoing.
its priorities and the Board will also In March the Board reported a weaker As I stated in July 2016, it could take up to continue to consider strategic alternatives than expected performance in Online 12 months for us to have a new permanent where they have the potential to create and since that time a number of strategic CEO in place and I shall continue to oversee shareholder value.
priorities to improve the business have this process with the Board.
Having joined been identified and announced in our the Board in 2010, I am now in the third and Governance trading updates.
The Board remained very last three-year term of my appointment, close to Philip Bowcock during this process I drew considerably on Board members which expires in August 2019.
Once we have and fully support the priorities.
The Board collective experience and the sound in place a permanent CEO, I have agreed is monitoring achievement against the governance processes already in place with the Nomination Committee of the priorities and providing constructive in order to lead and respond to both the Board that we should commence a process challenge to management as part of the significant and routine events of 2016. to plan for the succession of my position.
Boards core remit to provide strategic In such a busy year I was pleased that all With three new Non-executive Director leadership and oversight.
matters for the Board to consider and appointments recently made to the Board decide upon were dealt with appropriately.
and the permanent CEO position to fill, Through the mid-part of the year, the any change of the Chair must be planned Group received well-publicised approaches This years annual performance evaluation in an orderly manner and with adequate from The Rank Group plc and 888 Holdings has been completed with input from time for induction and familiarisation for a plc to combine the three businesses.
an external adviser, Independent Audit new Chair and for any other recent Board The Board discussed the proposals at Limited.
The results of that exercise broadly appointments.
I would envisage, once an specifically convened meetings of the support my view that the Board continues orderly handover has been completed, to Board.
Following deliberation, however, the to take its responsibilities seriously and that be in a position to retire from the Board Board decided to reject the consortiums the Board has shown great commitment, before the time of the 2018 Annual General approach, as it was not in the best interests which was particularly important as Meeting.
I have discussed this proposed of the Company and its shareholders.
approach with the rest of the Board and The recommendations arising from the The Board remains cognisant of its duties they unanimously consider that this orderly 2015 evaluation, completed internally, have to consider strategic alternatives and the and structured process is the best way been addressed during the year.
As with best interests for the business over the to proceed.
any complex business, there will always long term.
During the year alternative be further ways of improving the Boards As disclosed in previous reports, all Boardstrategies were evaluated for the business, performance and these will be progressed level appointments are made on merit as in particular whether it would be better during 2017. a matter of policy.
However, I am mindful to consolidate with another gambling that the recent appointments will have industrypeer, particularly to accelerate The governance report which follows the effect of temporarily reversing the WilliamHills strategy of increasing will give further clarity and detail on Boards gender diversity ratio from 25% at diversification by growing its digital and the effective governance processes the beginning of 2016 to 20%.
Following review, that continue to underpin the Boards current composition of the Board does not the Board considered an opportunity to operation, and provides more discussion meet current diversity targets as set out combine our business with Amaya, Inc. of the key events of the year for investors in the review by Lord Davies, the Board the Canada-based operator of leading and stakeholders.
is of the view that diversity should also online poker brands.
As announced by the There were no changes to the Groups encompass other factors such as business Company in October, various exploratory compliance with the UK Corporate background and sector experience which due diligence and other workstreams Governance Code during the year and a is now a specific requirement in respect of were underway with Amaya but far from compliance statement can be found on the composition of the Audit Committee complete and the Board maintained page 59. under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board also I believe that the current composition listened to the views of a number of William Our AGM will be held on 9 May 2017 and I of the Board reflects these wider Hills major shareholders.
After listening to look forward to welcoming shareholders considerations and best positions the such views, the Board decided that it would who can attend in person.
Group to deliver on its future strategy not pursue discussions with Amaya further.
and is therefore in the best interest of our Gareth Davis When considering the Boards governance shareholders.
The Board and the business Chairman obligations, I do believe that exploring this remain committed to promoting diversity opportunity was the right thing to do and in its widest meaning.
formed an essential part of the Boards responsibility to take a serious look at strategic alternatives for the business.
