GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Wizz Airs Nomination Committee is comprised of three members, namely John McMahon, our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Simon Duffy and me.
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the size, structure and composition of the Board, and retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors, and will make appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
The Companys success to date has been driven by ensuring that it appoints people of the highest calibre, whether as Directors, management or employees.
While the key selection criteria is to ensure that people are appointed on their ability to do their jobs, the Company and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance to the Company of diversity, including gender equality, and the appointments on which the Nomination Committee has advised during the 2016 financial year prove that the Company is committed to this principle in practice as well as theory.
Main activities of the Nomination Committee during the 2016 financial year During the 2016 financial year, the Nomination Committee worked on two key appointments for the Company.
Following the Companys initial public offering in March 2015, the Board decided that it was an appropriate time to add an additional independent non-executive director.
The Nomination Committee worked with Korn Ferry and senior management on the search process and members of the Nomination Committee conducted a number of interviews with candidates.
The final candidate, Ms. Susan Hooper, was recommended to the Board for appointment by the Nomination Committee.
The Company also appointed a new Chief Financial Officer during the 2016 financial year.
Again, the Nomination Committee, along with other Directors, assisted senior management and the Board with the selection process which was conducted through Heidrick & Struggles and I am delighted that the Company has appointed Sonia Jerez Burdeus, who takes up her position from 01 June 2016.
Ms. Jerez brings to the Company significant experience as a chief financial officer and board member of a European low-cost airline and will further strengthen the Companys senior management team as the Company continues to pursue its growth strategy.
The Nomination Committees ongoing work The Nomination Committee will continue to work with the Board to ensure that it has the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience and that, where the opportunity presents itself, appointments are made which reflect not only the Companys requirement to retain the best people for a particular role but also the Companys values, including ensuring diversity within the Board and the Companys senior management.
The Nomination Committee and the Board also recognise the importance of ensuring that succession of Directors and senior management is properly managed, to ensure that the Company has the right people available as needed.
The Nomination Committee will continue to work with the Board and the Companys senior management to develop and refine succession plans, encouraging and facilitating internal talent development where necessary.
William A. Franke Chairman of the Nomination Committee Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 46
