Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 33 Directors remuneration report How we are rewarded Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder Key features of our executive On behalf of the Remuneration Committee framework and the Board, I am pleased to present the Salary Directors remuneration report for the financial Market competitive fixed remuneration year 2015 16, my first as Chairman of the reflecting skills and expertise.
Benefits and pension Our remuneration policy was approved Market competitive benefits package.
by shareholders at the 2015 AGM following Executive Directors may receive a maximum extensive engagement with major shareholders cash pension allowance of 25% of salary.
Annual bonus Irwin Lee The Committee believe that this framework Maximum opportunity 200% of salary.
Chairman of the Remuneration Performance-related remuneration based continues to support and promote the link Committee on targets aligned to our annual financial and between pay and performance and there are operational strategic objectives.
no changes proposed at this time.
Key features of our current framework are summarised Underlying PBT 50% in the sidebar.
Strategic measures 30% Personal performance 20% The Committee intend to carry out a 2016 17 comprehensive review of the remuneration policy framework during the year to present to shareholders for approval.
We will be consulting with major shareholders on these proposals and 50% of any bonus deferred for three years I look forward to your input and feedback.
The Committee noted the significant number LTIP of votes against the Directors remuneration An opportunity to earn Morrisons shares based report for last year and during the year on performance against key strategic metrics discussions took place with a number of over a three year performance period.
institutional shareholders who didnt support Maximum normal award opportunity 240% the remuneration report.
Awards made in 2016 will be subject to the try to incorporate the feedback we receive following performance measures: and this year we have sought to significantly improve the level of retrospective bonus Free cash flow 60% target disclosure so that investors can clearly Underlying EPS 20% see the link between pay outcomes and the Total sales 20% performance delivered.
2016 In the remainder of this introductory statement, I have set out the key features and principles of our executive remuneration framework, Malus and clawback apply.
a summary of the out-turns in respect of 2015 16 performance, and how we intend Shareholding guidelines to implement the policy in 2016 17.
