GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Following Wizz Airs initial public offering IPO during the last financial year, the Audit Committees work during the 2016 financial year has been focused on day-to-day financial and risk issues, including further discussion on hedging strategy and approval of hedging transactions.
During the year, the Audit Committee worked with senior management and the Companys Internal Audit function on a project to look at the Companys risk management processes and to ensure that a robust assessment of principal risks was carried out.
Over the coming year, the Audit Committee will continue to work on this Board-approved project to develop and implement an enhanced enterprise risk management system for the Company.
Main activities of the Audit Committee during the 2016 financial year Risk management The Audit Committee is tasked with ensuring that the Board has adequate oversight of risk management and that it deems the controls sufficient and effective.
The Companys Internal Audit function conducts an annual risk assessment exercise involving senior management from the level of heads of function upwards.
Based on this risk assessment exercise, a risk register is compiled showing risk description, inherent risk, mitigating measures and residual risk.
Consideration is then given to which areas can be efficiently improved in line with the Companys risk appetite.
This risk register is then used to develop an internal audit plan for the year, which is approved by the Audit Committee.
Internal audits are performed by Ernst & Young and the Head of Internal Audit, who has direct responsibility to the Chairman of the Audit Committee as well as a reporting line to the Companys Chief Executive Officer.
Following completion of an internal audit, a report is compiled which sets out the findings, makes recommendations for control improvement and presents the improvement actions undertaken by management.
Internal audit reports are submitted and presented to the Audit Committee for approval.
The Chairman gives a report of the internal audit reports completed in a particular period to the full Board.
Internal Audit then follows up the completion of the actions and reports back to the Audit Committee on the status.
A process for verifying the effective application of the controls that are put in place has also been started.
The Audit Committee will work to ensure that the Company continues to develop effective risk assessment and management processes.
As I have noted above, the Audit Committee worked with and advised senior management and the Internal Audit function on a review of the Companys risk management processes.
One outcome of this review was the creation of an internal Risk Committee, comprising the Companys Leadership Team and certain other members of senior management.
The Risk Committee developed a list of principal risks and mitigating actions which was presented to the Board.
The Risk Committee will monitor this list on an ongoing basis and regular updates will be given to the Board both on the identified risks as well as any newly emerging risk.
The Company has embarked on the development and implementation of a comprehensive enterprise risk management programme, to position the Companys risk management processes for the next stage of the Companys growth.
More information on risk management within the Company is set out on pages 25 to 28 of this annual report.
Financial information The Audit Committee reviews and approves all interim and final financial statements, as well as the content of the Companys annual report.
The Companys external auditors provide the Audit Committee with a briefing on any issues arising.
The Audit Committee also reviews and approves any regulatory announcements that are made in connection with such financial information.
It is only after the Audit Committees approval that the statements are put to the Board for approval.
Relationship with external auditors The Audit Committee was satisfied with the performance of the external auditors and with the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The audit of the 2016 financial statements and of this Annual Report, and the review of the half-year financial report were all completed in time and in good quality, addressing the key issues.
This was particularly important because 2016 was the first full financial year of the Company with regular reporting to the London Stock Exchange.
The Audit Committee has approved the fees to be paid and the external audit plan for the 2016 financial year and reviewed the report of the auditors on the annual audit performed.
The Audit Committee will consider the appointment of external auditors for the financial year ending 31 March 2017 and the Directors will propose a resolution in this respect for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 43 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Main activities of the Audit Committee during the 2016 financial year continued Relationship with external auditors continued The Audit Committee ensures the independence of the Companys external auditors.
The Audit Committee reviewed the independence letter of the auditors and considered in particular the non-audit fees paid to the external auditors during the year see Note 6 to the financial statements.
While fees paid on tax advisory services were higher in 2016 than audit fees, the Audit Committee was satisfied that this did not compromise the objectivity and independence of the auditors, mainly because i the engagement leaders from the relevant tax departments are not part of the audit team, and ii no such services were ordered by the Company that carried self-review threat for the auditor.
Significant matters relating to the annual report In the course of the preparation of the Companys financial statements, the following issues were considered by the Audit Committee: E Maintenance accounting: The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the policy and the procedures applicable to this complex area were followed in the year consistently, including the regular updates to estimates and judgments and the maintenance of the system supporting the calculations.
The Audit Committee considered in particular the accounting implications of the amendment of the existing Fleet Hour agreements of the Group for the engines of the A320 sub-fleet effective May 2015.
The Audit Committee agreed to the treatment proposed by management.
See further details in Note 13 to the financial statements.
E Concessions from component manufacturers: The Audit Committee considered the accounting treatment of concessions from component manufacturers, receivable in exchange for the Group selecting the given component for its future new aircraft deliveries.
While these type of arrangements have been in place for many years, the 2016 financial year required particular consideration of the issue as a result of the Group taking its first free spare engine to balance sheet.
The Audit Committee reviewed particularly the timing of the recognition of such credits, and agreed to the treatment proposed by management, as specified in the current accounting policy of the Group.
E Hedging: Hedge transactions and hedge accounting continued to be a complex and material area and, accordingly, are a recurring topic on the agenda of the Audit Committee.
The 2016 financial year was special in three respects: i the continued volatility of the commodity markets, particularly jet fuel: ii the significant movements in the time value of hedges, causing volatility to reported earnings: and iii the application of hedge accounting to a significant part of the USD denominated monetary assets, as natural hedges, in the interest of reducing the exposure of the Groups earnings to movements in the Euro USD foreign exchange rates.
The adoption of IFRS 9 will enable the Group to eliminate the impact of changes in hedge time value on earnings.
In this respect the Audit Committee and management were disappointed to see the continued postponement of the endorsement of IFRS 9 by the EU, due to which the Group was not able to apply IFRS 9 in the preparation of its 2016 financial statements.
E Corporate governance: The Audit Committee considered the implications of the 2014 changes in the Corporate Governance Code on the directors statements around risk governance and risk assessment, going concern and longer-term viability.
The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the required changes in the Companys procedures and in the disclosures in the Annual Report were either implemented during the year or were in the process of being implemented, that were necessary for the Directors to be able to make the statements required by the Corporate Governance Code.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee also considered whether the Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report meets these criteria.
Other matters considered during the year E Tender for outsourced accounting and tax compliance services of the Group: The Group has a significant part of its accounting and tax compliance services outsourced to a third party provider.
The services were tendered during the 2016 financial year.
Due to the importance of these services for the integrity of the financial reporting of the Group the Audit Committee had oversight of the tender process and was involved in the final decision.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the existing provider, that supported the Company also in its IPO process, was re-appointed on competitive terms.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 44 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Main activities of the Audit Committee during the 2016 financial year continued Other matters considered during the year continued E Tendering statutory audit services for the Group: It is the policy of the Group to put services to tender regularly so that the cost-competitiveness of the business is maintained, and statutory audit services are no exception.
 have been the auditors since 2007 and audit services were last tendered in 2011.
The Audit Committee is considering whether it will be to the benefit of the Company to tender these services in 2016.
The external regulatory framework is complicated and under significant change both in terms of mandatory tendering and rotation of auditors and in terms of compatibility of audit and non-audit services in the future.
The Audit Committee noted that there are EU regulations in place for the mandatory tendering of auditors Order of the Competition and Markets Authority - although technically these do not apply to the Company as it is registered in Jersey Channels Islands that is not part of the EU.
At the time of writing no definitive conclusion has been reached but a decision will be made during the course of the 2017 financial year.
E Preliminary assessment of the implications of the new lease standard IFRS 16 Leases for the Group: The new lease accounting standard IFRS 16 Leases was issued with an application date of January 2019 that is April 2019 for the Group.
In order to be adopted in the EU, endorsement from the European Financial Advisory Group will be required.
It is expected that this will happen by approximately mid 2017.
Subject to such endorsement, early adoption is permitted.
The new standard will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Management has performed certain analyses with the support of the auditors and the result of this work was reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Nevertheless, this subject will require further work, including choices to be made in the future in respect of the year of adoption and the method of transition.
The Audit Committee will continue to be involved in these considerations.
Simon Duffy Chairman of the Audit Committee Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 45
