Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Governance 22 Corporate governance report Chairmans governance statement Following the external review of Board Introduction effectiveness in 2013 14, we have undertaken I am pleased to introduce on behalf of the an internal evaluation of the effectiveness Board, Morrisons Corporate governance report of the Board and its Committees this year.
The evaluation asked Board members to This year has seen a great deal of change for complete a comprehensive questionnaire based Morrisons.
The Group appointed a new Chief on their experiences of the Board.
The results Executive Officer in David Potts, someone with are summarised on page 27.
Although the 40 years experience in grocery retail.
David has evaluation did not highlight any particular areas very quickly built an experienced Executive of concern, there are a number of development team with a tremendous retail pedigree, and actions which we plan to take during 2016 17 restructured the next level of leadership in to further strengthen the effectiveness of the business.
The calibre of this team has the Board.
Good corporate ensured that risks and governance have been Diversity well managed throughout the year with a clear governance is commitment to doing things in the right way.
The turnaround of Morrisons will be customer Our careful and thorough selection process and colleague led.
As such, we recognise the an essential part has also ensured that the new appointments importance of diversity across our colleague to our Board include Directors with experience base, and the Board itself.
Focus is always given of running our of retail, fast moving consumer goods and to building teams that have an effective blend of restructuring, including two serving Chief knowledge, skills and experience.
The changes this business effectively Executives in large public limited companies.
year to the Board fulfil our policy requirement to maintain female representation at not less than Throughout these changes, the Group has Andrew Higginson 20% with an aspiration to increase this to at least been careful to ensure that we adhere to Chairman 30%.
At the end of the financial year 25% of total and continuously improve our standard of Board composition was female, and at no point corporate governance.
New Directors and during the year was there less than 25% female senior leaders have been inducted on how the representation on the Board.
Group manages and governs itself, how we Corporate governance statement make decisions, what we stand for, and the As I said last year, good corporate governance is an standards of governance we wish to retain.
essential part of running our business effectively, The Board considers that its corporate governance policies and procedures are appropriate and that the in the interest of our shareholders and other Board composition and effectiveness Group has applied the principles and complied with stakeholders.
We will continue to develop our the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance I am delighted to see this strengthened Board governance policies and processes in line with Code the Code throughout the financial year and management team working well together good practice thereby enabling our team to 2015 16 and to the date of this Annual report.
to guide the Group through this turnaround.
best utilise their skills in effectively implementing The Code is available on the Financial Reporting I am satisfied that the Board is independent business strategy.
and contains an appropriate mixture of skills The Boards corporate governance compliance and experience.
I am confident that the statement sets out how the Group complies with Andrew Higginson previous experience the Board members bring each of the provisions of the Code and is available in Chairman the investor relations section of the Groups website, from other companies and industries will be www.
invaluable to guide Morrisons along the long and important journey we must make.
I also consider that each of the Non-Executive Compliance statement Directors is able to commit an appropriate The full Compliance statement can be found at: amount of time in fulfilling effectively their www.
com role and responsibilities on the Board.
