Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Governance overview We have used the core principles of the Code Dear Shareholder as the framework within which we explain our I am pleased to present the Companys governance practices please see the boxes Corporate Governance Report for the financial below, which direct you to further detail.
Your Board recognises that a sound governance framework, both in The Company has a premium listing on the the boardroom and throughout the Group, London Stock Exchange, and is therefore is fundamental to the long-term success of subject to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing the business.
Although the Company being Jersey incorporated is not subject to the UK We remain committed to full compliance Companies Act, the Board retains its standards with the UK Corporate Governance Code of governance and corporate responsibility and to achieving high standards of corporate as if it were subject to the Act.
It continues to governance across the Group.
Your Board sets provide shareholder safeguards which are the overall strategic direction of the Wolseley similar to those that apply to a UK registered Group, and the Groups core values, policies company and complies with relevant institutional and procedures create an environment in shareholder guidelines.
I would like to take which our businesses can act with integrity and effectiveness, while driving for profitable growth.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our this opportunity Our commitment to all our stakeholders and our shareholders for their continuing support and to thank our people is of paramount importance throughout look forward to welcoming those shareholders all our businesses.
shareholders for This report explains how the Board operates and their continuing how our governance structure contributes to the support and achievement of the Groups long-term strategic objectives.
This section, together with the reports Gareth Davis look forward to Chairman from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration welcoming those Committees beginning on pages 50, 54 and 58 respectively, provide a description of how shareholders the Group has applied the main principles and able to attend complied with the relevant provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Gareth Davis Chairman Core principles how they are applied Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Continued close focus on A strong, open and Close scrutiny of risks strategy and its execution.
See pages 49 to 57 See pages 42 to 46 See pages 47 and 48 Remuneration Relations with shareholders Prudent oversight of executive remuneration.
See pages 58 to 72 See page 49 Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the financial year ended 31 July 2016, the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP, are required to review whether the above statement reects the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
A copy of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website www.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41
