58 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairmans governance letter Governance our legal and regulatory compliance Last year, we made solid progress standards.
Participation in these training and delivered against our commitment programmes and the output from our to apply the highest standards of annual colleague survey is reviewed by governance, meeting the standards the Executive Team and the Board to rightly expected by our shareholders ensure we maintain a positive culture and other stakeholders, and achieving across the organisation.
full compliance against the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Towards the end of 2016, we conducted our first Board and Committee evaluation, The welcome appointments during which confirmed a positive transition the year of Deanna Oppenheimer and following our IPO and an appropriate Karen Richardson as independent focus by the Board on the key strategic Non-Executive Directors NEDs not only and operational matters facing the strengthened our Board and Committees Group.
The evaluation gave the with their extensive skills and experience, Board the opportunity to reflect on We have delivered against but ensured we achieved an appropriate our activities throughout the period balance of independence and a marked since the IPO and agree a series of our commitment to apply improvement to our diversity.
In addition actions for further improvement.
the highest standards to our standard induction process for our new Directors, we also held a series Engagement with our shareholders of governance.
of development and strategy support We place great importance on regular presentations for the entire Board to engagement with investors and other ensure each of us built our knowledge of market participants: and, throughout the industry and the strategic challenges the year, a comprehensive and active Sir Michael Rake and opportunities we face.
programme of meetings to discuss Chairman our strategy and performance was We also developed the programme of conducted by our Executive Directors.
work for each of the Boards Committees, Our brokers and investor relations team ensuring each added real value to the presented to the Board in 2016 to report work of the Board.
Of particular note investor perceptions and expectations.
is the work, driven by Philip Jansen In addition to the regular dialogue on and his Executive Team and overseen governance matters carried out by by our Group Risk and Audit Committees, our Group Company Secretary, I also to strengthen our three lines of defence welcome direct dialogue with investors control environment with the enhancement who wish to deepen their relationship of our Group Internal Audit function with the Company in order to gain a first and the development and roll-out of a hand understanding of their views.
Also, our Nomination Committee has reviewed We look forward to engaging with you in the development of management talent 2017 and beyond and look forward to your and succession planning.
A series of support at our Annual General Meeting meetings between the NEDs and high on 10 May 2017. potential talent across the Group has been organised for 2017.
Further details of our governance and remuneration arrangements are detailed We recognise the value of a positive on pages 65 to 99. culture within the organisation and this is supported, and fully endorsed by Philip and his Executive Team, by a set of everyday working principles and behaviours within the Worldpay Way.
The Board fully supports the comprehensive Sir Michael Rake development opportunities to drive our Chairman capabilities, including a fully accredited 7 March 2017 Masters programme and specific training programmes to reinforce
