How we behave and how were rewarded and whether management had made appropriate estimates accounting for the judgemental elements of and judgements.
The areas of significant judgement remuneration, including pensions, bonus accruals, considered by the committee and how these were addressed severances and share-based payments.
The committee are set out below and reflect a number of the principal risk agreed that the assumptions applied by management areas identified by the Board on pages 46 to 50: are reasonable: the assessments made for goodwill impairment.
The the judgements made in respect of tax, in particular the committee confirmed, based on managements expectations level of central tax provisioning.
The committee supported of future performance of certain businesses, the level of managements assumptions in both these areas and believe goodwill impairment charges required in 2016: the current level of provisions is reasonable: and the judgements made in determining the gain on the going concern assessment and viability statement investment made in 2016 on Imagina.
The committee and key forecast assumptions.
The committee concur with agreed that the approach adopted by management is managements going concern assumptions as set out on appropriate: page 50. the judgements made in respect of the recoverability of other media income and revenue recognition, particularly External audit as these relate to media volume income and media trading income.
The committee received briefings from Deloitte and Deloitte have been WPPs auditors since 2002.
The lead management on the appropriateness of the policies adopted partner rotates every five years and the latest rotation took and the controls in place and challenged management to effect during 2015.
In 2016, the effectiveness of the audit demonstrate the effectiveness of such controls: process was evaluated through a committee review of the the judgements made in respect of the release of audit planning process and discussions with key members provisions related to other media income.
The committee of the Groups finance function.
The 2016 evaluations considered the testing undertaken by Deloitte and concluded that there continued to be a good quality audit information from management to support the change process and constructive challenge where necessary to in approach and agreed the change where supported ensure balanced reporting.
The committee held private is appropriate: meetings with the external auditors and the committee the valuations of non-controlled investments and listed chair met privately with the external auditors before associates, which are based on local management forecasts, meetings.
The committee continues to be satisfied with recent third-party investment and other supporting the performance of Deloitte and confirmed that Deloitte information such as industry valuation multiples.
The continues to be objective and independent and noted the committee examined the valuations with management and principal findings of the FRC 2016 Audit Quality Review considered the sample testing of the investments performed on the audit file of WPP for the year ended 31 December by Deloitte and agreed that the valuations were appropriate: 2015 as part of their 2016 review cycle.
The committee the accuracy of forecasting the potential future recommends the reappointment of Deloitte at the AGM payments due under earnout agreements in respect of on 7 June 2017. acquired businesses.
The committee considered the The committee considered the Groups position on forecasting with management and the testing undertaken its audit services contract in the context of the regulations by Deloitte and agreed that earnouts have been accounted concerning the audit market.
Although there is no for on a consistent basis to previous periods: immediate intention to tender the audit contract, the the approach taken by management to accounting for Company will re-tender at the latest by the 2022 year exceptional expenses incurred in relation to the ongoing end in compliance with the transitional arrangements IT Transformation project, which the committee considered for competitive tender that require mandatory rotation was appropriate: after the 2023 fiscal year-end.
the valuation of year-end provisions in respect of The Company confirms that it has complied with working capital.
The committee received briefings on the the Competition and Markets Authority final order on approach taken by management in assessing the level of mandatory tendering and audit committee responsibilities.
exposure across the Group and agreed it was consistent and appropriate: 126 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded Internal audit Terms of reference The annual internal audit plan is approved by the committee The committees terms of reference, are reviewed annually at the beginning of the financial year.
Progress against the and most recently were reviewed and updated in October plan is monitored through the year and any changes require 2016 and can be viewed on the Companys website at committee approval.
Significant issues identified within audit wpp.
reports are considered in detail along with the mitigation plans to resolve those issues.
The committee also considers Committee membership the level of internal audit resource to ensure it is appropriate to provide the right level of assurance over the principal risks Tarek Farahat was appointed to the committee on and controls throughout the Group.
24 February 2017 and brings not only relevant financial and global public company experience but also sector Non-audit fees and operational experience across many of the markets in which the Group operates with particular experience The committee has established a policy regarding non-audit in Latin America.
I look forward to his contribution to services that may be provided by Deloitte, which prohibits the committee and would like to thank Charlene Begley certain categories of work in line with relevant guidance for her hard work as a member of the committee, as she on independence, such as ethical standards issued by the will be retiring at the AGM.
I would also like to thank Auditing Practices Board and SEC.
The policy was reviewed all of my colleagues on the committee, the parent company by the committee in 2014 and advice on remuneration was executives and external advisors for their endeavours included in the prohibited category with effect from the in 2016. beginning of 2015 allowing for a transition period.
Further review in 2016 has resulted in a prohibition on tax services being provided by Deloitte in the EU and a general default Jacques Aigrain to an alternative provider elsewhere subject to adherence to 19 April 2017 regulations.
Other categories of work may be provided by the auditors if appropriate and if pre-approved by the committee, either as individual assignments or as aggregate amounts for specified categories of services.
All fees are summarised periodically for the committee to assess the aggregate value of non-audit fees against audit fees.
The level of fees for 2016 is shown in note 3 of the financial statements on page 195.
Committee evaluation The committee and its members were formally assessed by the Nomination and Governance Committee as part of the review of committee composition in 2016 and as part of the evaluation process described on page 124 for their technical suitability to be members and also for its overall effectiveness.
The Board has designated me as the committees financial expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act SOX purposes and together with Charlene Begley as having recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The members of the committee have financial and or financial services experience as set out in their biographies on pages 116 to 119.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 127 How we behave and how were rewarded Letter from the chairman of the Compensation Committee Page Notwithstanding the Companys superior performance, Letter from the Chairman of the we understand share owners increasing discomfort with Compensation Committee 128 the levels of our programs reward opportunities for Directors Compensation Policy 132 outstanding performance.
Similar feedback led to the Compensation Committee Report 145 changes introduced by the then committee earlier this decade that were subsequently incorporated in the 2014- 2016 compensation policy.
Based on the more recent share Dear share owner owner concerns, we are proposing further significant reductions in the compensation levels for the Companys.. n behalf of the WPP Board I am pleased to Executive Directors.
 :, :.. '.. present the Directors Compensation Report for compensation levels are set out below.. - o, -.. - : the year ended 31 December 2016.
The report In summary: O includes an at a glance snapshot of WPPs The total incentive opportunity the combination of performance and corresponding compensation for the year.
short-term incentive maximum and the face value of an award We then set out for share owners consideration our under the Executive Performance Share Plan, or EPSP will Directors Compensation Policy incorporating proposed reduce from 14.1 times to 10 times salary.
changes to the policy approved by 82% of share owners in The maximum short-term incentive opportunity will 2014.
This revised policy will be presented for approval at reduce by 35 percentage points, from 435% to 400% of salary.
This is then followed by our Compensation 40% of the achieved bonus will be delivered in shares in the Committee Report, which details the compensation form of an Executive Share Award ESA and these shares must decisions made by the committee and the resulting be held for a further two years.
The EPSP award will accordingly reduce by 374 percentage points, from 974% to 600% of salary.
The pension allowance will reduce by 10 percentage points Highlights of our proposed 2017-2019 from 40% to 30% of salary.
Compensation Policy The range of benefits provided will be replaced by a fixed benefit allowance of 200,000, a 12% reduction on the 2016 During the year, the Compensation Committee dedicated benefits cost.
considerable time to the re-evaluation of its policy.
This In aggregate, these changes will have the effect of reducing necessarily involved extensive dialogue with share owners the Group CEOs overall maximum pay opportunity, before and other interest groups.
We are most grateful for their any account is taken of share price appreciation or dividends, interest and input.
This brings the total reduction since WPP has a long-standing history of embracing a 2011 to 58% or 18.1 million.
philosophy of pay for performance.
This philosophy is In addition to these changes our proposed policy incorporated into the Companys compensation programs also reflects the following: in a range of different ways, for example: the five-year time In respect of the Group CFO, the total incentive horizon used since 1995 to measure performance in longopportunity will reduce by 150 percentage points from term incentive plans, and the use of challenging performance 700% to 550% of salary.
The level of benefits provided conditions to govern awards under all incentive plans.
Pay for performance and alignment with share The maximum incentive, shortand long-term, that owner interests remain central to the Groups culture.
could be offered to a new appointee to the Board, is The committee believes these cornerstone features have being reduced by 20% from 10 times to 8 times salary.
been most effective in driving exceptional performance, The maximum pension contribution that could be which has resulted inter alia in WPP becoming the most offered to a new appointee to the Board is being reduced valuable, international, integrated communication services by 15 percentage points from 40% to 25% of salary.
As a result, the committee concluded that this The level of vesting associated with the threshold ethos should continue to be reflected in the Companys performance requirement under the EPSP will reduce compensation arrangements.
from 20% of the award to 15% of the award.
The committee did not reach these decisions lightly.
The process has proven to be challenging, reflecting the 128 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we behave and how were rewarded Letter from the chairman of the Compensation Committee divergent views of share owners, the differences in EPSP.
The design of the EPSP was strongly influenced by competitive market practices in the UK which may cause share owners views.
This plan has granted awards at lower competitiveness issues in the US and internationally where levels, with further reductions proposed in 2017, and WPP competes, the imperative of retaining and motivating a measures performance equally across three critical areas: high-performing leadership team, all while also maintaining EPS growth, return on equity and relative TSR.
We the Companys attractiveness to future leadership recruits.
anticipate that the value of awards vesting in subsequent We hope that you will find that our revised compensation years will be substantially lower than the values realised policy appropriately balances these important factors.
under LEAP.. Pay for performance in 2016 Performance targets for 2017 incentive awards 2016 was once again a record year for WPP.
The Company achieved strong top-line growth with operating profits and The committee has approved performance targets for the 2017 margins meeting and exceeding targets across all regions short-term incentive awards.
As previously, performance will and sectors.
be assessed against a mix of financial measures, for 70% of This sustained strong performance was reflected in the the award, with the balance being determined by achievements outcomes of the Companys incentive plans for the year.
Awards under the short-term incentive plan ranged from The three financial measures are unchanged for 2017 95% 120% of target.
Shares awarded in 2012 under the and are headline PBT growth, headline net sales margin last cycle of the Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan LEAP improvement and growth in net sales.
The performance vested in full on 7 March 2017. ranges and outcomes will be disclosed in next years report.
The 2012 LEAP award was the final instalment of The committee has also reviewed the 2017-2021 EPSP the existing LEAP incentive program.
WPP significantly measures and targets, concluding that they remain out-paced all except one of its peers with five-year TSR appropriate, stretching and aligned to the guidance issued growth of 210%.
In reviewing the outcome under the plan to share owners.
The targets that will apply are as follows: the committee noted: Measure Performance range WPPs TSR ranked in the upper decile of the FTSE 100 EPS 7% 14% compound annual growth during the same period and out-performed US indices and ROE 15% 18% annual average broader industry peer groups: Relative TSR Median to upper decile market capitalisation increased by 14.71 billion $15.44 billion or 172.0% from 8.55 billion $13.27 billion to 23.26 billion $28.71 billion : the share price increased from 675 pence at the start Looking forward of 2012, to 1,816 pence by the end of 2016, a compound annual growth rate of 22%: We hope that you will recognise the significant steps the the Companys dividend increased from 24.6p to 56.6p, committee has taken in responding to any concerns in a compound annual growth rate of 18%: presenting its proposed policy.
With the majority of TSR was ahead of the Companys most comparable compensation still contingent on the sustainable performance competitors: Omnicom 180%, Dentsu 114% and Publicis of WPP, we are confident that these proposals will continue 106% : and to provide meaningful alignment between performance and the Companys strong underlying financial performance, reward.
As in previous years, we extend our thanks to those including net sales growth of 34%, a 51% increase in share owners and advisors who helpfully engaged with us headline PBIT and a 67% increase in headline diluted EPS.
in formulating our proposed policy.
We hope they will meet The committee acknowledges that the value created with your support at the 2017 AGM.
for share owners throughout the five-year term of the 2012 awards, and throughout the eight years of the LEAP III Sir John Hood program, has been significant.
Chairman of the Compensation Committee In 2013, in response to share owners concerns about 19 April 2017 the design of LEAP, the committee adopted a new longterm incentive plan, the Executive Performance Share Plan WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 129
