40 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE with Mike Evans, Non-Executive Chairman Committed to goodgovernance Dear Shareholder Board changes The Board is entirely On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to During the year, we had a couple of changes committedto promoting present the Groups Corporate governance to the Board.
andupholding the highest In April 2016, the Board appointed standards of corporate This review, along with the Audit, Nomination AndyBotha as Chief Financial Officer to and Remuneration Committee reports that replace Stephen Morana.
follow, should provide you with details of the ability to execute different multi-brand, Boards activities during the year, including multi-channel business models across the how it discharged its governance duties and digital and technology sectors and joined us applied the principles of good corporate from notonthehighstreet.
com, where he had governance set out in the UK Corporate been Chief Commercial and Financial Officer.
Governance Code the Governance Code.
The Board is delighted to welcome Andy to the Group and he brings with him a wealth The Board is entirely committed to promoting ofrelevant experience and demonstrable and upholding the highest standards of corporate success in leading technology businesses governance as it believes that this enables the during periods of high growth.
I would accomplishment of the Groups mission and alsolike to take this opportunity to thank strategy, whilst providing information and Stephen for all of his hard work and his transparency to shareholders.
substantial contribution to the Group, guidingthe Company through its successful IPO in June 2014 and being actively involved inits two subsequent acquisitions.
Our Governance framework See below for the role of the Board and its committees.
Board The Board comprises 10 Directors.
We have two ExecutiveDirectors, a Non-Executive Chairman, four Independent Non-Executive Directors and three further Non-Executive Directors.
The Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Executive Management Team 40 Corporate governance Since the Companys IPO in June 2014, the Company has hada relationship agreement the Relationship Agreement in place with its principal shareholders ultimate parent company, Daily Mail & General Trust plc.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Daily Mail & General Trust plc can appoint two Directors, providing it holds more than 25% of the votes exercisable at general meetings of the Company.
I am pleased to welcome Kevin Beatty, who Daily Mail & General Trust plc appointed to the Board in July 2016 to replace David Dutton following his retirement from both Daily Mail & General Trust plc and our Board.
I confirm that both Andy and Kevin are skilled, experienced and committed to their roles and have sufficienttime available to discharge their duties effectively.
As required by the Companys Articles of Association, they will be offering themselves up for election at the next AGM.
Ifurther confirm that the remaining Directors continue tohave appropriate knowledge and expertise to be effective and that they have all demonstrated commitment to the role.
In line with the A HOME AWAY FROM HOME requirements ofthe Governance Code, all the remaining Directors will also be offering themselves for re-election Read more about our big move on page 36 atthe next AGM.
Mike Evans Non-Executive Chairman Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Key responsibilities The Audit Committees role is to assist The Nomination Committee assists The Remuneration Committee the Board with the discharge of its theBoardin reviewing thestructure, recommends the Groups policy responsibilities in relation to sizeand composition of the Board.
determines the levels of remuneration for Executive Directors, the Chairman andManagement.
Membership at 30 September 2016 Membership at 30 September 2016 Membership at 30 September 2016 Duncan Tatton-Brown Chair Mike Evans Chair Sherry Coutu Chair Sherry Coutu Alex Chesterman Mike Evans Robin Klein Duncan Tatton-Brown Duncan Tatton-Brown Vin Murria Sherry Coutu Vin Murria Robin Klein Meetings held in 2016 Meetings held in 2016 Meetings held in 2016 3 4 3 Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|41
