Chairmans statement continued The result is that GPs, and ultimately Our people and the Board theNHS, pay a very competitive rent that We have 34 people in Assura and, on is lower than it otherwise would be.
The behalf of the Board, I would like to thank system enables the NHS to call on private them all for their hard work, dedication money for new developments, avoiding and contribution to the success of the any need for Government capital business over such a busy year for investment.
It is a highly efficient and cost theCompany.
effective model for the private sector funding of state medical infrastructure.
The future Over the past four years we have invested Shareholders 500 million capital and 3.3 million in We are committed to the highest themaintenance of the UKs primary standards of financial transparency and careestate.
Thanks to the support of our believe a significant investment in investor shareholders, we have built the strongest relations activity is a key responsibility for balance sheet in the sector and we plan any public company.
We have held 119 tocontinue deploying this capital in UK meetings with investors during the year primary care.
Our in-house management and I am delighted to welcome a number team intends to continue delivering of new shareholders onto our register.
We excellent customer service and operational are very grateful to our shareholders for excellence for the nations GPs, while the level of support demonstrated during maximising the value of our portfolio the year which enabled us to increase our through asset management initiatives.
We successfully met the criteria for inclusion in the FTSE 250 Rent review increases have been Index in December 2015 and this provides relatively low in the last few years, further exposure for the Company to an duetoboth low general inflation enlarged group of investors.
andthescarcity of comparative new developments.
However, yields have Dividends strengthened somewhat over that period, reflecting the long-term attractiveness We are committed to providing our shareholders with superior risk adjusted ofthe sector to investors.
The Board believes that when the NHS steps up returns and a key component of this return is a growing, covered dividend.
In January itsapprovals for new developments, assurely it must, rental growth will 2016 we increased our quarterly dividend payment by 10% to 0.55 pence per share accelerate.
The overwhelming need in this country for improved primary care or 2.2 pence per share on an annualised basis.
We also took the opportunity in premises underpins the future ofAssura.
January to provide our shareholders with the flexibility of receiving their dividends in SIMON LAFFIN shares through a scrip alternative share EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN scheme.
This has been taken up by 13% 17 May 2016 of our shareholders, which underlines the value of the scheme.
8 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
