Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Chairmans introduction I am pleased to present my second corporate Together with overseeing a strong financial governance report to you and to explain performance, the following key changes have how your Board has used the authority and been addressed by the Board during the year: trust you place in it to drive your Company forward as it strives to deliver sustainable Board Changes shareholder value.
David Thomas took over as Chief Executive Now more than ever good corporate from Mark Clare on 1 July 2015 and retained governance will play a key part in the long the position of Group Finance Director term success of any business.
The UKs until Neil Cooper joined as Chief Financial decision to leave the EU has created great Officer on 23 November 2015.
David received uncertainty, not only in the UK but more widely.
support from the Board and from Mark Clare Whilst I cannot predict what may happen in the throughout his transition to Chief Executive.
future, I can assure you that we have a strong Information on the induction process for David business led by an equally strong and talented and Neil can be found on page 58.
The Board is continually monitoring Mark Rolfe, after eight years of service, has events and will make decisions based on firm decided to stand down after the 2016 AGM.
facts to ensure that it exploits opportunities as Mark is a highly valued member of the Board they arise.
and during his tenure has contributed greatly Good corporate governance is more than to the Companys success.
simply adhering to the principles of the UK We undertook a full and formal process to Corporate Governance Code: it is the basis find a new Non-Executive Director more of good management practice.
We are information is available on page 64 and we focused on ensuring that good governance is are pleased to have secured the services embedded in our culture across disciplines of Jock Lennox.
Jock joined the Board on and all areas of the business, in order to create 1 July 2016 and will take over as Chair of the Good corporate governance is the a stable foundation upon which our business Audit Committee following the 2016 AGM.
and long term success is built.
The Board His biography can be found on page 47 and foundation of effective management.
takes time to receive regular updates on details of his induction can be found on changes in corporate governance and best We place governance at the heart of page 59. practice and strives to adopt the spirit, in everything we do.
It is embedded in our addition to the letter of the regulations or best practice provisions.
procedures and processes throughout our business from Board level to our divisional operations.
John Allan Chairman 48 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Market Abuse Regulation Changes to Regulation FY17 The Board reviewed the impact of the Market Numerous changes have taken place to Our areas of focus during FY17, amongst other Abuse Regulation including its treatment the regulatory framework within which we matters, will be: of inside information: the relationship with operate.
The Board took time to discuss to continually assess the impact on the our brokers and analysts: the obligations and consider each of these in detail.
business of the decision to leave the EU and of Persons Discharging Managerial Particular areas of focus were: flex our strategy accordingly: Responsibilities: and the Companys Share Long term viability statement Dealing Code.
Following its review and in to assess and fully comply with the principles accordance with best practice, the Board and provisions of the UK Corporate The Audit Committee robustly assessed approved the establishment of a Disclosure Governance Code issued in 2016: the internal control and principal risks of Committee, adopted a revised Share the business on behalf of the Board.
It also to implement the recommendations arising Dealing Code and updated its procedures considered the period over which the viability from the 2016 externally facilitated Board and processes to ensure the Company's of the Company should be assessed and effectiveness review see page 56 : and compliance with the new regulations.
analysed the outcome of the assessment to conduct a formal process to tender our of long term viability over that timescale.
Auditor independence and non-audit external audit and taxation services.
The results of this assessment can be seen on fees policy page 43 of the Strategic Report.
You have a strong and experienced Board During the year the Audit Committee reviewed managing your Company through these Modern Slavery Act the policy on auditor independence and nonuncertain times.
The actions that they take audit fees to take into account the prescribed over the coming months will be in line with During the year, the Company assessed the prohibited non-audit services with effect good governance and, in the opinion of the effect of the Modern Slavery Act MSA 2015 from June 2016.
A cap on fees for permissible Board, in your best interests.
on its processes, procedures and contracts non-audit services of 70% based on the in addition to our relationships with suppliers The following pages set out our governance average of the previous three years of audit and contractors.
The Modern Slavery Act structures, processes and the work fees has been imposed and will be effective Statement as required by MSA 2015 is undertaken by the Board and its Committees from the year commencing 1 July 2019. currently being prepared and will be published during FY16.
Further information is contained on page 72. on our website, following approval by the Board, no later than 31 December 2016.
John Allan Chairman 6 September 2016 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49
