St Go rateg verna ic n Rep ce an or d r t emuneration CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE REVIEW Welcome to the Corporate Governance and Remuneration sections of our Annual Report Our robust governance structure is an integral part of the way British Land designs and delivers its strategy: supporting effective decision-making and enabling the right people to have access to the right information at the right time.
As reported in the Chief Executives review, we have delivered another strong set of results as we progress in implementing our strategy of creating Places People Prefer.
The Board continues to make a valuable contribution in overseeing the delivery of our strategy, providing constructive challenge to management and ensuring key risks are identified and properly managed.
More information on our strategy and progress can be found on pages 18 to 25 British Land has a highly effective Board, as confirmed by this years internally conducted Board evaluation exercise, reinforcing the positive results of last years externally facilitated evaluation.
We have not made any changes to the Board or Committee membership this year, other John Gildersleeve than the appointment of Laura Wade-Gery on 13 May 2015, which we Chairman reported on last year.
We are not proposing any changes to the Board at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Directors attendance during the year ended Read our Board biographies on pages 66 to 69 31 March 2016 John Gildersleeve 8 8 We value continuity and experience of British Lands business and are Chris Grigg 8 8 delighted to endorse the Nomination Committees recommendation Lord Turnbull 8 8 that Lord Turnbull be re-appointed as Senior Independent Director.
Aubrey Adams 8 8 Lord Turnbull will step down as Chairman of the Remuneration Lucinda Bell 8 8 Committee following this years Annual General Meeting, although he Simon Borrows 8 8 will remain a member of that committee.
William Jackson has agreed Lynn Gladden 8 8 to take on the position of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
1 William Jackson 7 8 Charles Maudsley 8 8 The Remuneration Committee has recommended that we seek approval Tim Roberts 8 8 this year of a new Remuneration Policy, as our Matching Share Plan 1 Tim Score 7 8 expires this year.
Amendments to our Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2 are proposed to deliver a simplified remuneration structure with one Laura Wade-Gery 4 6 long term incentive arrangement.
No other material changes to the 1 William Jackson and Tim Score were unable to attend an unscheduled Board existing policy are proposed.
meeting called on short notice and held by telephone, due to pre-existing business commitments.
The Remuneration Report is set out on 2 Laura Wade-Gery was appointed on 13 May 2015.
Laura Wade-Gery was pages 86 to 110 unable to attend one Board meeting due to a pre-existing business commitment and one due to illness.
1.2 70 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We believe that good governance requires open engagement with stakeholders and have sought and responded to feedback about our governance structures and the way our business is run.
We have consulted widely, and taken into account investor views, in relation to the proposed changes to our LTIP and hope to receive your continued support of our Remuneration Policy to enable us to offer competitive remuneration structures to attract and retain the best people.
I look forward to receiving your feedback on this and other matters at and in advance of our AGM on 19 July 2016.
John Gildersleeve Non-Executive Chairman Chairmans statement go to pages 4 to 5 Paddington Central Compliance with the Code The Board has continued to apply good governance practices during the year, operating in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
For ease of reference, this is how we demonstrate our compliance throughout the Governance and remuneration section of the Annual Report and Accounts 2016: A.
Effectiveness C. Accountability D. Remuneration Ealing Broadway E. Relations with shareholders British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71
