104 GOVERNANCE Letter from the Report of the Chairman of the Nominations Nominations Committee Committee Committee membership Throughout 2016, the Committee consisted of Stuart Corbyn, Richard Dakin and Cilla Snowball under the chairmanship of Simon Fraser.
All members are considered independent by the Company having no day-to-day involvement with the Company.
Rules and responsibilities The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Meetings The Committee meets at least once a year to arrange for the annual appraisal of the Board and its Committees.
Further meetings are arranged, as required, to discharge the Committees other responsibilities.
The Committee met twice Simon Fraser in 2016.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee Work of the Committee During the year the Committee has carried out the Dear Shareholder, following tasks: I am pleased to present the Committees report for 2016.
Led an enhanced annual appraisal of the Board, its Committees I took over the Chairmanship of the Nominations Committee at the and the Chairman which this year included interviews with start of the year when we had just completed the induction process all the Directors and the Company Secretary.
The appraisal for Claudia Arney and Cilla Snowball.
Whilst these appointments process was carried out by Lintstock, an independent corporate had broadened the mix of skills and experience of the Board, a advisory firm which provides no other services to the Group.
vital ingredient in providing effective challenge to the executives, Reviewed the membership of the Board Committees to ensure the Committee is mindful that there needs to be a careful balance that the composition of each was appropriate.
between such refreshment and continuity.
Recognising this, there was no planned recruitment in 2016.
However, to ensure that the Reviewed the Groups succession planning for executive and new non-executive Directors served on Committees where their non-executive Directors and senior management.
particular skills would be most useful, the Committee undertook Reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee.
a review of the membership of all the Board Committees.
Considered the results of the annual appraisal of the Another element of maintaining an effective and balanced Board Committees performance.
As well as ensuring that Board changes are planned and managed this also makes sure that the Board can continue to deliver its strategy in the event of Simon W. D. Fraser unforeseen circumstances.
Therefore, ensuring that there are Chairman of the Nominations Committee succession plans in place for key individuals remained a priority 28 February 2017 for the Committee during 2016.
The final area of focus for the Committee was to improve the utility of the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Having satisfied this point of governance for the last three years by using an externally facilitated questionnaire, it was decided to enhance the exercise this year by adding interviews to the process.
The results of this extended assessment are discussed on page 81.
Last year I referred to the FRCs discussion paper on board Succession Planning and its Culture Project.
As expected, both initiatives gave rise to reports during 2016 which set out their findings and we now wait for an update to the FRCs Guidance on Board Effectiveness which will reflect the feedback received and is expected in 2017.
Simon W. D. Fraser Chairman of the Nominations Committee 28 February 2017
