GOVERNANCE 105 Letter from the Report of the Risk Chairman of the Committee Risk Committee The Committee was chaired by Richard Dakin and served throughout 2016 by Stephen Young, Cilla Snowball, John Burns and Damian Wisniewski.
Rules and responsibilities The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Meetings Three meetings are scheduled for the year with extra meetings convened if necessary for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Work of the Committee During the year the Committee undertook the following tasks: Richard Dakin Reviewed the Groups risk register and considered the top ten Chairman of the Risk Committee risks at each meeting.
Received presentations from senior management concerning Dear Shareholder, the controls over certain parts of the business or specific risks.
I am pleased to present the Committees 2016 report.
The areas of focus were determined by the review of the top ten risks and key presentations covered cyber risk and health In last years statement, I referred to the uncertainty caused by and safety.
Other risks specifically considered were those the imminent Brexit referendum.
As it turned out, the Leave vote around construction contracts and insurance.
radically changed the risk profile facing the Group by creating a heightened level of political uncertainty which is likely to persist Considered the operation of the Groups risk management for a number of years.
The immediate effect of this was a system and non-financial internal controls.
downgrading of the economic prospects for the UK and in Regularly reviewed the Groups Key Risk Indicator dashboard.
particular for those of London and a consequent increase in the risks to the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
In addition Considered whether a robust assessment of the Groups to this new layer of risk, there was no abatement during the principal risks had been carried out and, after due consideration, year in the overall level of risks presented by external factors confirmed to the Board that this was the case.
including those arising from cyber attacks and the geopolitical Considered a report from the Groups legal advisers concerning upheaval caused by the result of the US election.
Given the potential regulatory risks over the next 12 months.
nature of these factors, the Committee does not anticipate Regularly reviewed the Groups quarterly register of hospitality a reduction in the level of risk over the next few years.
and gifts maintained under the Groups Bribery Act procedures.
As in previous years, the Committees work during 2016 was focussed on areas identified from its review of the Groups top Reviewed the Groups register of potential conflicts of interest.
This included receiving an update on the progress being Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
made with the planned improvements to the resilience of the Considered the content of the annual appraisal of the IT systems that had been established in 2015.
Progress was on Committees performance.
target but in view of the new IT infrastructure being introduced as part of the Groups move to new offices, further improvement is expected when the 2017 annual cyber risk review is carried out.
Richard D. C. Dakin Chairman of the Risk Committee The Committee also received a presentation on the Groups 28 February 2017 health and safety procedures which was identified as a key risk given the level of development activity underway throughout the portfolio at the current time.
This will be followed up in 2017 once the new health and safety consultants have completed their review of the existing procedures and their suggested improvements have been introduced.
The Committees monitoring of the Groups risk management and internal control system, as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, was enhanced by the introduction of a desktop of Key Risk Indicators which the Committee reviewed at each of its meetings.
Richard D. C. Dakin Chairman of the Risk Committee 28 February 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016
