58 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Governance Dear shareholder I am pleased to announce John Strachan as my successor.
He has been a nonThroughout the year we have continued executive director since October 2015 to ensure that our governance structures and brings a wealth of experience from at Board, Committee, subsidiary and joint the retail property sector in the UK and venture levels continue to be appropriate internationally, including Spain.
and support our business and culture in an ever-changing regulatory environment.
Andrew Huntley will also be stepping In the next few pages we provide details down from the Board at the 2017 AGM.
of our Board members, the role of the Board, its performance and oversight.
Effectiveness and evaluation We also provide the information on As your Chairman it is my role to provide Compliance with the September our governance framework which leadership to ensure the operation of 2014 UK Corporate Governance we consider is appropriate for a UK an effective Board.
Code the Code premium-listed company.
The following governance pages The Board consists of 11 Directors, explain how the Company applies 2016 governance highlights including myself.
The Directors bring the main principles of the Code, issued Succession planning a wide range of skills and diverse by the Financial Reporting Council The Nomination and Review Committee perspectives to the Boards deliberations, FRC, and how it meets other determined that no changes were as described on the following pages.
In relevant governance requirements required to the Boards composition relation to gender diversity we have three including provisions of the Disclosure during 2016, following discussions about female Board members 27 per cent, Guidance and Transparency Rules of Board composition, succession and talent which exceeds the Lord Davies 2015 the Financial Conduct Authority.
Both planning at executive level.
However, target of 25 per cent.
As I highlight in my documents are publicly available the Committee has planned for a report on behalf of the Nomination and at the website of the FRC frc.
number of changes in 2017. Review Committee on page 74, we consider that broader aspects of diversity, The Board considers that the Company Firstly, as I mention in my letter at the rather than purely gender, are key to complied in full with the provisions of start of this report, I will be retiring from stimulating constructive debate.
the Board following the annual general meeting AGM in May 2017 after nearly During 2016 we conducted an nine years as Chairman.
In accordance externally facilitated Board performance with the process established by the evaluation and the findings provide Board, Andrew Huntley, Senior further opportunity to continue our Independent Director SID and the development, including focus on Nomination and Review Committee succession planning and the balance of without my attendance have overseen information to be provided at meetings.
the process and search for a new Chairman, working closely with the Patrick Burgess Group Company Secretary and Chairman independent consultants, Korn Ferry 23 February 2017 Whitehead Mann.
The independent Non-Executive Directors have also contributed to the process, all being entitled to attend Nomination and Review Committee meetings when Board succession matters are being discussed.
Governance Governance 59 Board in action In October 2016 the Board travelled to Newcastle to look at both intu Eldon Square and intu Metrocentre.
They were particularly interested in the positive impact that recent refurbishment and extensions have had on lettings, rental levels and capital growth with particular focus on the newly opened Greys Quarter restaurant scheme at intu Eldon Square.
The Board had a comprehensive tour of the centres, conducted by centre management, which demonstrated significant new lettings, strongly trading tenants, significant increases in footfall, customer dwell time and spend.
The Board reviewed a range of further opportunities to grow the capital and rental value of the leisure scheme at intu Eldon Square and discussed how intu is engaging with the major stakeholders in the city to further enhance the wider city centre environment and provide a world class shopping experience.
It was great to engage with the intu Board of Directors, meeting those that I hadnt met before and being able to show them around a centre that we as a team are very proud of.
We were able to explain the work that we have been undertaking to grow and develop the centre and talk about how we are engaging with our partners in Newcastle.
Phil Steele General Manager, intu Eldon Square
