JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 54 Governance Chairmans introduction to Governance The Group has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Group Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Risk and Compliance Committees to assist it with the direction and control of the Group.
These Committees, together with the JRP Board Integration Sub-Committee, the Investment Committee of the Just Retirement Limited and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited Boards, the Group Executive Office Committee and UK Business Executive Committee, are the principal operating committees of the Group.
The Group Chief Executive Officer operates a Group Executive Office Committee to support him in the performance of his duties, including the development and implementation I am pleased to present the Groups Corporate Governance of strategy, the monitoring of operating and financial report for the period to 31 December 2016 on behalf of performance, the assessment of control and risk, the the Board.
supervision and prioritisation of resources, the monitoring of competitive forces and the day-to-day operational At the end of our first reporting period after an intense period management of the Group.
of activity when the Board and its Committees has met more regularly that it might normally have done, I can confirm that The Group Executive Office Committee comprises of Rodney the new Board has proven itself to be working well together.
We Cook Group Chief Executive Officer, Alex Duncan Group Chief have set out our strategy and future business plan.
The merger Risk Officer, Jane Kennedy Group Chief Operating Officer, of Just Retirement and Partnership Assurance has proved to be David Richardson Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer and an excellent transaction.
As I stated in my introduction at the MD UK Corporate Business, and Simon Thomas Group Chief beginning of the report, we are delivering synergies ahead of Financial Officer.
The Committee meets weekly to discuss schedule and have increased our cost savings target.
I believe and approve operational matters and is supported by the UK that the Board is well placed to maximise the opportunities for Business Executive Committee and the Management Subthe Group and its shareholders.
Committees focusing on the following areas: operational risk, pricing, assets and liabilities, insurance, products and The Group Board is committed to the highest standards propositions, change, and regulatory oversight.
The UK Business of corporate governance in JRP and demonstrates this Executive Committee comprises of the following Group commitment by the way in which it conducts business and Executives: Chris Berryman Group Integration Director, Andrew carries out its responsibilities in response to the challenges Chamberlain Group Director and Chief Actuary, David Cooper and opportunities of a changing market.
The Board focuses Group Marketing & Distribution Director, Mark Dearsley Group primarily upon strategic, policy and governance issues, acting Strategy Director, Alex Duncan, Jane Kennedy, Steve Kyle in accordance with the best interests of shareholders as a Group Regulatory & Audit Director, Hugh McKee Managing whole.
It also approves the Group strategy, oversees the Director of UK Retail Business, Giles Offen Group Chief Digital allocation of resources, and monitors the Groups performance.
Information Officer, David Richardson, and Paul Turner Managing Director-Retirement Lending, International However, whilst the excellent talent pool from both legacy and Group Development.
companies provided the new Board with the right depth and mix of skills and experience, knowledge and independence to address In addition to its principal operating committees, the Board has a number of tough challenges, the Board is not considered established a Market Disclosure Committee and an Allotment diverse as presently composed.
As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, which meet whenever necessary.
Committee I will be taking an active role in overseeing a programme driven by the Committee to ensure that progress is The Market Disclosure Committee oversees the disclosure made in achieving the Groups diversity goals and particularly to of information by the Company to meet its obligations under increase the female representation on the Board, the Executive the Market Abuse Regulation MAR, and to ensure that Committee and the direct reports to the Executive Committee.
decisions in relation to those obligations can be made quickly.
The Committees role is to determine whether information The Board decisions aim to link the Groups strategy, its is inside information, when such information needs to be governance and risk appetite to the pursuit of sustainable profit disclosed and whether any announcements are required.
growth over the longer term for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Other responsibilities include reviewing and approving We will continue to lead the development of a governance announcements concerning developments in JRPs business framework that promotes transparency, accountability and and monitoring compliance with the Groups MAR disclosure challenge as the fundamental underlying principles for the controls and procedures.
Its members comprise Tom Cross Boards entrepreneurial and prudent approach to developing Brown Chair, Rodney Cook, Chris Gibson-Smith, Keith JRPs business.
Nicholson, David Richardson and Simon Thomas.
