STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 63 LETTER THE COMMITTEE PLAYS FROM THE ANIMPORTANT ROLE IN ENSURING THAT THE CHAIRMAN APPROPRIATE GOVERNANCE OF THE AUDIT ENVIRONMENT, UNDERPINNED COMMITTEE BY THE APPROPRIATE RISK MANAGEMENT, CONTROL AND ASSURANCE PROCESSES, IS COMMITTEE MEMBERS EMBEDDED THROUGHOUT Kevin OByrne Chairman Stacey Rauch THE BUSINESS.
Cressida Hogg CBE Kevin OByrne, Chairman, Audit Committee until 23 July 2015 Chris Bartram from 23 July 2015 Independent Non-executive Director Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to report on the key activities and focus of the Audit Committee during the year.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups reporting process and financial management, as well as ensuring sound systems of risk management and internal control are in place.
It scrutinises the full and half year financial statements before proposing them to the Board for approval, and reviews in detail the work of the external auditor and valuers and any significant financial judgements made by management.
Further, the Committee reviews the risk management framework and reports to the Board on matters of existing and emerging risk affecting the Group.
Acquisitions and disposals The Company has continued to improve the quality of its portfolio resulting in a number of transactions, principally disposals, during the year.
The Committee ensured that all transactions were properly recognised and accounted for.
Changing risk landscape Throughout the year, the Committee monitored the broader market conditions and the risks and challenges relevant to the Group.
In addition to the forthcoming referendum on whether to leave or remain in the EU, the Committee considered other threats such as 64 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 cyber-security, as well as the broader market CBRE applied its own independent judgement outcome of the EU referendum in June.
In cycle and property and consumer trends that and experience to our properties, and I am addition, there remain many other challenges impact our business planning.
pleased to say that, of the movement in values and opportunities for the Company as it The Committee uses the Groups risk between our March and September 2015 anticipates future demand from customers, register which is regularly reviewed by the valuations, our judgement was that less than 1% of future consumer shopping habits and changes Executive Committee as the basis of its review.
the total valuation of c. 14 billion was attributable in economic conditions.
The Committee will In particular, the Committee ensured that risks to the fact that we were using different valuers.
continue to work closely with management to were properly categorised, the potential impact This fact can be taken by shareholders as ensure that it addresses these issues in a way to the Group was understood, and that confirmation of the robustness of the March that is consistent with the Companys culture appropriate resources were allocated to 2015 valuation used in last years Annual Report and values.
provide assurance that agreed management and provides our shareholders with confidence Finally, I would like to thank the other plans and mitigating actions were implemented.
in the value of our property portfolio.
members of the Committee, together with management and EY, for their support during Internal audit External auditor the year.
The Company maintains its own risk Ernst & Young LLP EY was appointed as the I hope that you find this review, and the management and internal audit function.
This years internal report that follows, useful in understanding the TheCommittee took time during the year review of their effectiveness and performance work of the Committee during the year.
toconsider in detail the scope, skills and concluded that they continued to operate to a competencies of this function and its high standard.
Based on the Committees contribution to risk management within the recommendation, the Board is proposing that Kevin OByrne business.
We decided that internal audit was EY be reappointed to office at this years AGM.
Chairman, Audit Committee effective in reviewing internal controls, monitoring compliance with any audit actions Fair, balanced and understandable and facilitating and testing the Groups business The Committee assessed and recommended continuity planning.
The Committee also to the Board that, taken as a whole, the considered the merits of outsourcing some or Companys 2016 Annual Report is fair, all of the risk management and internal audit balanced and understandable.
We concluded that the internal audit team should use more external specialist advice Viability Statement and knowledge to assist its understanding of This is the first year in which the Company has the full potential impact of some risks like cyber been required to issue a Viability Statement.
as they develop at an ever increasing rate.
The Committee considered in detail the elements of the Statement and the appropriate External valuations and valuers forward-looking period that should be applied.
We reported last year that we had started the The Viability Statement, together with the competitive tender process to appoint or rationale behind the chosen five year time reappoint the external valuers of the Groups horizon, is set out on page 50. property portfolio.
The full and half year valuation of its portfolio is central to UK Corporate Governance Code determining the Groups overall business I referenced in my statement last year the performance and year end results, as well as changes introduced by the UK Corporate being pivotal to determining certain aspects of Governance Code in 2014, which apply to the senior management remuneration.
Although Group for the first time this year.
I believe that, property valuations are based on consideration in consultation with management and EY, we of third party, market and internal evidence, have addressed these changes.
This is there is a subjective element that requires demonstrated by the more forward-looking valuers to make significant judgements and nature of the Committees approach to matters, assumptions based on their experience.
Given the publication of the inaugural Viability the importance of external valuations to the Statement, and the regular in-depth review of assessment of the Groups performance, it was risk and risk management.
agreed to be in the Companys best interests, and in line with good governance practice, to Committee effectiveness conduct a thorough review.
During the year, our externally facilitated Board I chaired the review and selection panel, evaluation concluded that the Committee was and the outcome was that CBRE was appointed effective in fulfilling its duties.
This confirms my to act as the Companys external valuer, personal view that the Committee plays an replacing Knight Frank who had provided the important role in ensuring that the appropriate Company with a high standard of service and governance environment, underpinned by the contribution for many years as the Companys appropriate risk management, control and principal valuer.
CBRE first undertook the assurance processes, is embedded portfolio valuation in September 2015, and in throughout the business.
doing so allocated sufficient resource to Details of member appointments, skills and biographies, and full attendance at the understanding in detail the many elements of The year ahead Committees five meetings held during the the Groups assets.
The process went extremely The legislative environment and market year, are set out on pages 5456 and 58. smoothly and I am grateful to Knight Frank for conditions in which any business operates The Committees terms of reference, which facilitating an orderly handover of data.
For Land Securities, are reviewed annually, are available on the the year ahead may be affected by the Companys website at www.
