60 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 Dear Shareholder, identified in the UK Corporate Governance I am pleased to present the Nomination Code at which point some investors or Committee report which summarises our work governance bodies may begin to question LETTER over the past year.
Any such decision will be taken by reference to the facts as they exist at FROM THE Board changes the time and explained to shareholders.
There were no changes to the composition The Board and the Committee undertook CHAIRMAN ofthe Board.
However, it is important for the its annual review of the balance of skills, Board to anticipate and prepare for the future knowledge and experience that each Director OF THE and one of the Committees roles is to ensure brings to the boardroom table, with reference that the skills, experience, knowledge and to the likely business demands over the independence present at Director and senior coming years, as well as our ability to cope NOMINATION management level reflect the changing with unexpected events or opportunities that demands of the business.
The conclusion was that the current COMMITTEE detailed consideration at Committee combination remains appropriate.
Further, as meetings, the Board chose this as a topic for an exercise, we anticipated unforeseen extensive discussion at one of its recent changes to key personnel at Board, executive dinners.
or senior management level and we continue Kevin OByrne joined Land Securities as a to monitor a range of candidates who may be Non-executive Director in April 2008 and has suitable replacements.
acted as the Companys Senior Independent Director since 2012.
Kevin will relinquish this Independence and re-election to the Board role following the Annual General Meeting in The independence, effectiveness and July and I am delighted that Edward Bonham commitment of each of the Non-executive Carter has agreed to take over these Directors has been reviewed by the responsibilites.
I look forward to working with Committee which satisfied itself on the Edward in this new capacity.
Kevin will remain contributions and time commitment of all the on the Board for the time being but will step Non-executive Directors during the year.
On down as Chairman of the Audit Committee in behalf of the Committee, I conducted a specific the coming year a position he has held since review in relation to Chris Bartram as he has January 2009 and we have commenced the been in office for more than six years.
The external search to find his successor.
In Committee was confident that Mr. Bartram, and addition to the technical requirements of such each of the Non-executive Directors, remain a role, the Nomination Committee has debated independent and will be in a position to DURING THE YEAR, the non-financial skills and experience that a discharge their duties and responsibilities in THECOMMITTEE new Director could bring.
All the Directors will stand for DEVOTED ASIGNIFICANT As part of the selection procedure, the re-election at the Annual General Meeting with Committee conducted a tender process the support of the Board.
PROPORTION OF ITS before choosing Spencer Stuart to assist with TIMETO SUCCESSION the recruitment.
Spencer Stuart is an Committee effectiveness PLANNING AND TALENT independent search consultancy with no other I am pleased to report that the recent external DEVELOPMENT IN connections to the Company and has not been Board evaluation concluded that the involved in other Board level appointments for Nomination Committee operated well, and the SUPPORT OF THE us for more than ten years.
It is likely that the appointment of a new Company Secretary in COMPANYS FUTURE number of Non-executive Directors on the September 2015 has provided us with an PLANS.
Board will increase to seven for a period of opportunity to take a fresh look at our time before Mr OByrne retires so that we approach.
Dame Alison Carnwath, Chairman, canprovide a proper induction and handover You will find more information on these Nomination Committee to the new Director.
We will issue an particular topics and the other work of the announcement in due course to confirm the Committee, and more details of the Board successful appointment.
evaluation process and its outcomes, on the following pages.
Board composition The composition of the Board and its Committees, in its broadest sense, was a topic Dame Alison Carnwath referenced in the externally facilitated Board Chairman, Nomination Committee evaluation carried out during the year.
Property is a long-term business, and it is appropriate that Directors are appointed with an expectation to serve for at least six years, COMMITTEE MEMBERS and preferably for the full term of nine years, personal circumstances permitting.
Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman Details of member appointments, skills and Experience gained through one property biographies, and full attendance at the Kevin OByrne cycle is invaluable background for the next.
Committees two meetings held during the Chris Bartram year, are set out on pages 5456 and 58.
Moreover, depending on our business needs and the progress of the property cycle, it may The Committees terms of reference, which Simon Palley are reviewed annually, are available on the be in the Companys best interests for some Independent Non-executive Director Companys website at www.
com Directors to stay beyond the nine year term
