Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction from the Chairman The Board remains committed to Regular and open dialogue and upholding the high standards of communication with investors is a corporate governance that underpin the key priority for the Executive Board.
successful management of the business During 2016 the Executive Directors and its long term success.
met with over 200 shareholders, fund managers, private wealth investors and Good governance is embedded into the other interested parties to communicate way we manage the business to create a the Companys strategy and culture of appropriate decision making, Patrick Vaughan performance.
risk assessment and transparency at all Chairman levels in the organisation.
Board leadership and succession planning have been areas of particular The high level of involvement of the focus this year as the length of service Executive Directors in the day to day Statement of of certain Non Executive Directors may business operations promotes good Compliance soon be considered to compromise governance practices beyond the The Board has considered their independence.
A specialist search Boardroom, supporting the successful the Companys compliance agency was appointed and prepared a with the main principles and delivery of strategic objectives.
shortlist of candidates with the requisite provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the The Corporate Governance report skills and experience for interview.
I am Code published by the which follows demonstrates how the delighted to report that as a result of this Financial Reporting Council Board is committed to the principles exercise Andrew Livingston has been in September 2014, publicly available at www.
and provisions of the UK Corporate appointed to replace Charles Cayzer The Board considers that the Governance Code the Code.
who will be retiring as a Non Executive Company has complied with the main principles set out in Director of the Board in September 2016.
This year the Nomination Committee the Code throughout the year The Board would like to thank Charles under review and to the date led an internal Board evaluation having for his commitment and valuable of this report.
undertaken an externally facilitated contribution to the Company over evaluation last year.
All Directors were thelastsix years.
required to complete a questionnaire which focused on the key components The Remuneration Committee has, once of good governance and effective again, had a busy year in their efforts performance and the findings were to maintain a fair reward structure that collated and reviewed.
The results of adequately incentivises and retains the the evaluation were very positive and valued Executive team to deliver long concluded that the individual Directors, term growth and success.
the Board and its Committees continue The Committee reviewed the variable tooperate effectively.
elements of remuneration and has The Audit Committee has considered made some amendments to the the mandatory changes made this year implementation of the Remuneration to the Code in respect of the ongoing Policy for next year following consultation review and evaluation of risk and has with leading shareholders.
No changes introduced as an agenda item at to the Policy are proposed for the every Board meeting a risk dashboard year ahead and a full review will be which highlights changes in the Groups undertaken in advance of the next exposure to current and emerging risks mandatory Policy vote in 2017. and the mitigation thereof.
The Audit Committee has also challenged the going concern principal underlying the preparation of these accounts and Patrick Vaughan considered the level of stress testing Chairman undertaken by management in order 1 June 2016 to report on the Companys longer termviability.
