CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The incumbent non-executive directors come BOARD COMPOSITION AND from a wide range of industries, backgrounds DIVERSITY and geographic locations and have appropriate experience of organisations with international A list of the Companys current directors, including reach.
Whilst we recognise that the existing skills their biographies, who were in office during the and expertise of the current Board are extensive, year and up to the date of signing the financial the Board intends to recruit two additional nonstatements, can be found on pages 60 to 61.
AR executive directors during the year ahead to further deliver a diverse range of core skills including Following the Combination, the Board comprises financial, clinical, healthcare industry and operations seven independent non-executive directors, two nonexpertise and increase female representation on the executive directors and two executive directors from Board.
Whilst no quota regarding gender balance wide-ranging backgrounds and with varying industry is imposed, the Nomination Committee and Board and professional experience.
This is compliant with remain committed to ensuring that the business the Code, which recommends that at least half the reflects a diverse Board including from a perspective Board should be independent.
The Company of ethnicity and gender, at all levels of seniority, regards all of the non-executive directors other when considering Board appointments and internal than Dr Edwin Hertzog and Mr Jannie Durand to promotions, whilst always seeking to ensure that be independent in character and judgement, and each post is offered strictly on merit to the best therefore free from any business or other relationship available candidate.
or circumstances that could potentially materially interfere with the exercise of their respective and The Boards diversity policy statement is set out on collective independent judgement.
For details on the diversity of the Group, AR including a breakdown by gender, age and race Mediclinic recognises the importance and benefits only for purposes of South Africa on the Board of having a diverse Board, and believes diversity at and senior management roles see the Directors Board level is an essential element in maintaining a Report on page 120.
Diversity covers various skills, regional and industry experience, background, race, gender and other distinctions between directors.
BOARD FUNCTIONING The Board seeks to build an effective, robust, HOW THE BOARD OPERATES well balanced and complementary Board, whose capability is appropriate for the nature, complexity The Board is responsible for the effective oversight and strategic demands of the business.
It also agrees the strategic direction Nomination Committee leads the process for Board and governance structure that helps to achieve appointments as further detailed in the Nomination the delivery of long-term success of the Company AR Committee Report included in this Annual Report.
and wider Group, and in turn to deliver value to its investors.
The full responsibilities of the Board are The Board and the Nomination Committee actively outlined in the matters reserved for the Board.
The consider the structure, size and composition when Board also delegates authority to its Committees contemplating succession planning for the year to carry out certain tasks on its behalf, so that it ahead.
They remain cognisant of the need to balance can operate efficiently and give the right level of the composition of the Board and its Committees, attention and consideration to relevant matters.
and the need to refresh this progressively over time Further information on the Committees of the so that the experience of existing and longer serving Board can be found on pages 69 to 70, and, in the directors can be complemented by new external Committee reports on pages 74 and 100 to 115.
AR perspectives and insights from new appointees.
BOARD COMPOSITION GENDER INDUSTRY SECTOR EXPERIENCE 9% 9% 1 9% 1 9% 91% 27% 2 18% 7 28% Nonexecutive Male Academia Chairman Female Finance Nonexecutive Healthcare director Infrastructure Executive Insurance directors Consumer goods Independent non executive directors 66 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
