Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance governance framework.
This underpins the in June 2016.
Ruby ceased to be a member Boards ability to set the overall strategic of the Audit and Remuneration Committees direction of PageGroup and supports its with effect from 23 May 2016 and stood core values, policies and procedures, which down as Senior Independent Director on in turn, creates an environment in which 9 June 2016, when Patrick fide Smedt was our business and employees can act with appointed in her stead.
In October, on integrity and effectiveness, while driving the recommendation of the Nomination profitable growth.
Committee, the Board appointed Michelle Healy as a Non-Executive Director.
The following pages of this Corporate Michelle has extensive experience in global Governance Report set out how the human resources management.
This Company has complied with the UK experience, together with Michelles general David Lowden, Corporate Governance Code: the work management experience in the service Chairman and activities of each Board Committee: sector, complements that of the other Board and the annual evaluation process, which members.
this year was an externally facilitated review Dear Shareholder, undertaken by Lintstock Limited.
I hope you find our Corporate Governance Report informative and I will be available I am pleased to present the Companys During the year under review the Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting to Corporate Governance Report for the continued to build a strong and well respond to any questions you may have on financial year ended 31 December balanced Board.
Your Board believes that sound Smith completed nine years on the Board in governance, both in the boardroom and May 2016 and at the request of the Board throughout the Group, is fundamental to continued to serve on the Board as a NonDavid Lowden the long-term success of the business.
Ruby was re-elected by Chairman remains committed to high standards of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 7 March 2017 governance and the fostering of an effective Our Corporate Governance Framework The Board The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
More details on pages 42 to 45 Chief Executive Chief Financial Nomination Officer CEO Officer CFO Committee Key responsibility is to develop Responsible for managing the Responsible for ensuring that the and deliver the Groups strategy financial risks, reporting and Company has the executive and nonwithin the policies and values planning of the Group.
executive Board leadership it requires.
Details on page 46 Audit Committee Executive Board Responsible for the integrity of the The Executive Board is chaired Companys financial statements and by the CEO and includes the performance, ensuring the necessary CFO.
The Executive Board is internal controls and risk management responsible for overseeing systems are in place and effective.
operations in our regions and for Details on page 48 overseeing business operational functions Group-wide.
Remuneration Committee Details on page 41 Company Secretary Responsible for the review, Responsible for ensuring the recommendation and implementation Board complies with all legal, of the Groups remuneration strategy, regulatory and governance its framework and cost.
Details on page 60 PageGroup Annual Report 2016 37
