58 DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Chairmans Ian Davis Chairman introduction 2016 was a year of significant organisational supporting Warren East as he reshaped his distinguished career with the Group spanning transformation, market headwinds and Executive Leadership Team ELT.
We are indebted to Colin for his operational challenges for the Group, exemplary contribution to engineering.
The 2015 Board effectiveness review including managing a number of new conducted by Independent Audit In May, Dame Helen Alexander stepped product introduction programmes.
In highlighted a need to improve the quality of down from the Board having completed her January 2017, after lengthy regulatory information presented to the Board.
Dame Helen has shown investigations with which we co-operated the year, the Company Secretary led a major dedication and valued insight throughout fully, we concluded deferred prosecution piece of governance improvement work to her tenure, including in her leadership of the and leniency agreements with the UK provide tools, templates and training to help Remuneration Committee.
On behalf of the Serious Fraud Office, US Department of management write more effective and Board, I would like to thank Dame Helen for Justice and the Brazilian authority, MPF.
This has resulted in her contribution and commitment.
It is times such as these when the significant improvements in the content, In November 2016, I accepted Alan Davies importance of corporate governance comes length and insightfulness of our Board and resignation from the Board.
Alan was sharply into focus.
It serves to ensure committee packs, which in turn prompts appointed as a Non-executive Director one valuable oversight, guidance and more informed discussion and better year previously and his contribution, experienced support to management as it decision making.
In parallel, new expertise and perspectives were highly balances risks and opportunities and management information dashboards valued by his colleagues during his period navigate difficult and complex issues at a developed during 2016 have enabled at a in office.
The Boards glance views of the status of key The Board resolved in December to propose to oversight and engagement on the critical programmes and business performance.
shareholders the appointment of PwC issues ensured that decisions were taken in One of the most important responsibilities I asauditor with effect from the 2018 AGM.
the Groups best interests and in pursuit of have as Chairman is to ensure the right Details of the tender process are contained in its strategic, financial and operational balance of skills, experience, independence the Audit Committee report on page 102. objectives and transformation milestones.
and knowledge on the Board to provide We consulted with major shareholders To facilitate more regular oversight, reporting effective support and challenge to during the year on the proposed changes and interaction with management we added management.
There were a number of to our remuneration policy.
Further details Board calls to our annual schedule, in April Board and ELT changes announced during of the consultation and the new policy are and October.
We held a number of other the year, which you can read about in more in the Directors remuneration report on ad-hoc Board and committee meetings detail in the Nominations & Governance pages 72 to 82.
We also held our first outside of our annual cycle to deal with Committee report on pages 67 to 71. governance event in the UK and a matters that required attention between our In March, we welcomed Brad Singer as a governance roadshow for major investors regular scheduled meetings.
Some of the new member of the Board and the Science in the US.
Further details of these events Non-executive Directors also spent time & Technology Committee.
Brad is chief can be found in the Corporate governance during the year with the business and finance operating officer of ValueAct, a report on page 66. leadership teams outside of formal meetings major shareholder.
to gain deeper insight into the operational We note with interest the governments Our relationship with ValueAct has been, challenges at a programme and business green paper on UK corporate governance.
and remains, thoughtful and productive.
This combination allowed us to The Board is considering the level of We have a relationship agreement in place understand better, and more closely track, interaction with stakeholders, particularly which, although less usual in the UK, is fairly the progress being made by the Group on its employees.
We are planning to hold an standard practice in the US.
transformation agenda and priorities AGM for employees in 2017, and Irene throughout the year, so that we could focus In May, Sir Kevin Smith was appointed as Dorner will take the lead at looking at how onthe right areas.
we can strengthen our links between the boardroom and our employees.
In 2016, as part of the simpler governance In September, we announced the workstream of the transformation appointment to the Board of Stephen I look forward to reporting our progress on programme, we continued to strengthen Daintith as Chief Financial Officer to corporate governance in our Annual Report aspects of our governance arrangements, succeed David Smith.
Stephen will take next year.
building on the work undertaken in 2015. up his new post in Spring 2017.
Ian Davis We complemented this by increasing focus Colin Smith will also be stepping down Chairman on talent and succession planning, including from the Board at the 2017 AGM after a 13 February 2017
