Royal Mail plc | Corporate governance Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder in place to ensure good governance and set I am pleased to present Royal Mails out the operations of the Boards primary corporate governance report for the year committees.
I am pleased to endorse this ended 27 March 2016.
I joined the Company report, which I believe provides an insight on 18 June 2015 as a NonExecutive Director into how, through its actions, the Board and and succeeded Donald Brydon as Chairman its committees have fulfilled their governance on 1 September 2015.
I would like to extend responsibilities and worked to ensure my thanks and appreciation to Donald for all that strong governance practices remain that he did for Royal Mail during his tenure.
The Board of the Company is committed to Peter Long ensuring that it provides effective leadership Chairman and promotes uncompromising ethical 18 May 2016 standards.
The Board believes that good corporate governance will contribute to better company performance as it helps a board discharge its duties in the best Index Page interests of shareholders.
One of the ways Chairmans introduction 42 in which the Board achieves this is by requiring that good governance principles Board of Directors 43 and practices are adhered to throughout Chief Executives Committee 47 the Company.
This report aims to provide shareholders with an understanding of the Statement of corporate governance 49 arrangements we undertake in order to Audit and Risk Committee report 52 maintain the highest standards of corporate governance across the business, which we Nomination Committee report 57 consider to be essential for the longterm Pensions Committee report 58 success of the Company.
Directors remuneration report 60 It is the role of the Board to provide leadership to the Company.
I lead the Board Directors report 81 in reviewing longterm strategy, monitoring, supporting and, where required, challenging the executive team, whose job it is to Compliance with the UK manage the Company successfully day to Corporate Governance day, driving performance of the business Code, September 2014 and creating value for our shareholders and theCode and its statement other stakeholders.
For the Board to be effective in discharging its responsibilities, ofrequirements itmust maintain a level of independence and The following sections explain how the objectivity, the correct balance of experience Company applies the main principles and skills and have sufficient knowledge of set out in the Code, issued by the the operations of the business.
Financial Reporting Council FRC, asrequired by the Listing Rules of The Board has continued to review its the Financial Conduct Authority FCA governance framework and has adjusted, and how it meets other relevant where necessary, the roles, structure requirements including provisions of and accountabilities of its mechanisms of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules governance.
During the year, the governance of the FCA.
Both Codes are publically structure below the Board and primary available at the website of the FRC committee level was again reviewed to www.
ensure the correct and accurate flow of information and responsibility.
The Board considers that the Company complied with the full provisions of the The following pages of this report explain, Code during the year.
ingreater detail, the structure and processes 42 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16
