Governance 63 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Chairmans Introduction Corporate Governance supports our decision making be considered and decisions made at the heightened economic uncertainty and potentially appropriate level in the organisation.
a governance structure which is clear, well Risk understood and works well.
I believe that in SEGRO operates a robust approach to risk order for the Company to continue to deliver management which is integrated throughout the attractive returns for shareholders, the Board business.
The Board has overall responsibility for must remain committed to high standards ensuring that risk is managed effectively across of corporate governance.
Good corporate the Group and it is the Boards and the executive governance is about more than simply teams role to understand the risks associated box ticking.
It is about communication and with the business and ensure that actions are information flows, appropriate challenge, trust taken to mitigate these risks.
The Principal and respect, and open and honest debate in a Risk section on page54 provides more details structured environment.
of the risks, while page 69 sets out the risk Throughout 2016, the Company complied management process.
with the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Directors Governance Code Code and this Report sets The Nomination Committee Report on out how we applied its principles to the running The strategy is extremely page 73 shows how the Board comprises of of the business.
The Company also complied Directors with a breadth of professional and clear and well understood with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance sector experience from various backgrounds.
Code although this does not apply to us for this throughout the Company.
It This means that we have a balanced Board reporting year.
with the right range of skills and experience is well debated at the Board, On page 66 we explain how the Board, the to contribute to and where appropriate and is, appropriately, the lens Executive Committee and their respective challenge decision making.
It is important that we have a strong Board to take the Group through which most issues there are clear lines of responsibility between forward.
This Report also explains the rigorous are assessed.
management and the Board and in particular assessment and selection process which the between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Committee followed for the appointment of Soumen Das as Chief Financial Officer.
Gerald Corbett How we use governance to make decisions Chairman and support the delivery of the strategy Under Baroness Fords leadership, the As you will have read in the Strategic Report, Remuneration Committee ensures there is Excellent governance structure in 2016 we delivered another year of strong clear line of sight for management between I am pleased to introduce the Governance performance from our unique portfolio.
Much of pay and performance.
Information about the section of my first Annual Report as Chairman.
the focus for the Board during the year was on remuneration arrangements are set out in I succeeded Nigel Rich as Chairman in April the changing economic environment and outlook the Remuneration Report on page 85 to 97.
2016 and I am looking forward to continuing his for our property markets, against the backdrop of This year we are also asking shareholders to good work.
Brexit and other geopolitical factors.
support our updated Remuneration Policy.
First impressions The focus on our strategy, and the clear linkage Engagement with shareholders I joined the Board in March and have enjoyed of all key decisions back to our overarching As Chairman, I think it is important that the getting around the business, meeting people, strategic objectives, is a consistent and powerful whole Board is aware of shareholders views.
visiting sites, spending time with the Leadership feature of Board meetings.
It is important I welcome open, meaningful discussions Team and understanding how it all works.
that the Board holds the executive team to with shareholders, in particular with regard I have been impressed with the quality and account and ensure it takes responsibility for the to governance, strategy and remuneration.
the experience of the people at SEGRO who implementation of our strategy.
Following my appointment as Chairman, I took are professional, hardworking and work well the opportunity to contact a number of our together.
The work on Purpose and Values, We value presentations from different people major shareholders, and attended an investor which was rolled out in 2014, has clearly helped in the business who are close to our markets dinner in May, to gain an understanding of their to build a distinctive and open culture.
I have and who can tell us what they are seeing and perceptions of our business.
been struck how everyone I have met has hearing on the ground, as well as from external understood the Companys strategy, what has to sources who can give us a wider perspective on I trust that you will find this Governance Report be done to deliver it and their part in it.
This provides the context for the helpful and informative.
Directors to make decisions about acquisitions, How governance works at SEGRO disposals and the development pipeline which In this section, we explain how corporate has been an area of focus throughout the year.
Gerald Corbett governance works at SEGRO, how it is central The Board will continue to review the Groups Chairman to all aspects of our business and is designed plans and priorities against the backdrop of to create an environment where matters can
