Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW Strong Corporate Governance is integral to our The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Good governance provides the structure for an business and our Companys success.
As we open, informed and transparent environment which supports have grown, we have embedded a culture of good good decision making and establishes our culture and ethos.
In governance into our Company which has enabled this section of the Annual Report we report on our compliance us to support our Companys growth, to develop with the principles of corporate governance and highlight the an open and robust working environment and key governance events which have taken place during 2016. to encourage dynamic business communications 2016 has been another busy year.
We have appointed a new with our Shareholders.
Non-Executive Director, Susanne Given, who was formerly COO of SuperGroup PLC, and we have undertaken a review of the terms of appointment and remuneration for the existing Non-Executive Directors.
More details on both of these initiatives can be found in my Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have reviewed, with the Manager, the terms of the Investment Management Agreement and Shareholders approved certain amendments to the agreement on 20 December 2016, the main terms of which are set out in the Management Engagement Committee Report.
As part of this process and as a result of the Companys continued rapid growth, we have agreed a Service Level Agreement with the Manager to streamline our Board meetings and Board papers in order to make the Board meetings more efficient whilst continuing to ensure that the Directors Richard Jewson receive all necessary information to enable them to conduct an open debate and make good decisions.
Overall, we see these changes as further strengthening and embedding a culture of strong corporate governance in our Company.
The Board has considered the Companys strategy at a specific strategy meeting leading to the amendment of the Investment Policy approved by Shareholders at last years AGM in May 2016, and has scheduled two strategy meetings to be held in 2017.
The Company and the Manager have together established a Shareholder and stakeholder communications programme, which has included as some of its highlights a series of Chairmans lunches and an international roadshow where Colin Godfrey from the Manager and key members of the Companys Broker, met with many current and prospective Shareholders.
More information on the Shareholder and stakeholder engagement programme can be found in Relations with Shareholders and stakeholders.
The Board has also benefited from a bespoke professional development programme and it has conducted an internal Board evaluation to ascertain whether the results from last years external Board evaluation had been implemented effectively Nomination Committee Report p75-76 Directors Remuneration Report p90-91 62 Management Engagement Committee Report p85-87 Relations with Shareholders and stakeholders p88 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 and to consider the Boards thoughts for the future.
More The AIC Code and AIC Guide can be found at: information on the professional development programme and www.
co. uk sites default files the Board evaluation can be found in Effectiveness.
pdf The Audit Committee, led by Jim Prower, has considered the Other key statements additional requirements placed upon it by the recent changes to The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the AIC Code and EU Regulations and has also considered the Companys Viability Statement in light of the recent guidance The Company is well placed to manage its financing and other received from the Financial Reporting Council as well as the business risks.
The Board is, therefore, of the opinion that the composition of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has going concern basis adopted in the preparation of the Annual also actively negotiated the scope of the annual Audit and the Report is appropriate.
Further details regarding this opinion statements made by the Auditor.
The Audit Committee Report are set out in the Accountability section of this Corporate provides further details.
Governance Report: Statement of Compliance Taking into account the Groups current position and the impact We, as the Board of the Company, have considered the of the principal risks documented in the Strategic Report, the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate will remain viable, continuing to operate and meet its liabilities Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
as they fall due, over the period to 7 March 2020.
Further details The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the of the Boards assessment of the viability of the Company are set principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well out in the Accountability section of this Corporate Governance as setting out additional principles and recommendations on Report and also Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties : issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
A continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing The Board considers that reporting against the principles and the risks the Company faces has been established and the recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance systems.
Further details are set out in the Accountability Code, provides better information to Shareholders.
section of this Governance Report: The Company has complied with the recommendations of the The Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole are fair, AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate balanced and understandable and provides the information Governance Code, except as set out below.
necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
See the Audit The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions Committee Report, for further information: relating to: The continuing appointment of the Manager on the terms The role of the chief executive: agreed is in the interests of the Companys Shareholders as a Executive directors remuneration: whole.
Further details on the basis for this conclusion are set The need for an internal audit function.
out in the Management Engagement Committee Report and : For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the The Company undertakes a full risk review twice a year where UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these it considers all the principal risks and uncertainties that may provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company.
Please refer to Our Principal Risks and The Company is an externally managed investment company.
Uncertainties in the Strategic Report.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a Richard Jewson Chairman result, the Company has no executive directors or employees.
7 March 2017 The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Effectiveness Director Training Programme p73 Accountability p77-79 Effectiveness Board performance and evaluation p72 Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties p54-59 63 Audit Committee Report p80-84 Management Engagement Committee Report p85-87
