50 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE A GOOD GOVERNANCE CULTURESITS AT THE HEART OFGROWING LONG TERM SUSTAINABLE EARNINGS Phil White Chairman Im pleased to present our Corporate economy, while ensuring we are prepared Governance Report on behalf of the for change in the Higher Education and Board.
This preparation includes our Leave vote has led to a dynamic external substantial investment in technology market while in parallel as we celebrate rolling out our scalable operating platform Unites 25th anniversary we are seeing PRISM as well as ensuring our development a maturing PBSA sector.
Succession planning and corporate Our governance framework is designed culture has been a focus in 2016.
We had to help us navigate these external and a change in Chief Executive, with Richard internal changes.
It is imperative the Smith taking over from Mark Allan after Board is able to provide the necessary 17 years with Unite, 10 as CEO, as well as oversight and challenge to secure the the Group converting to a REIT effective Groups long term sustainable success, 1 January 2017. building on all we have learnt in our 25 years, and the following pages provide The Boards governance role has focused insight as to how we are doing this.
on the impact of change in the wider Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 51 Governance overview underpinned by the Corporate Governance Code Governance framework Leadership Effectiveness Our governance framework, On pages 54 and 55, we describe the Pages 62 and 63 describe how underpinned by the Corporate composition of the Board explaining our governance framework ensures Governance Code, is designed to their skills and experience.
On pages the effectiveness of the Board.
support our strategy and ensure 57 to 61 we explain how the Board Recognising how critical corporate our long term sustainable success.
operates as an effective board, culture is to effectiveness and Similar to our risk management collectively responsible for the sustainable success, during 2016 framework described on long-term sustainable success of our Board evaluation focused on pages 22 to 25, our governance Unite, the clear division of responsibilities among other things our corporate framework is driven by an open of the Board and the role of the culture and governance and collaborative Board and non-executive directors to leadership.
In addition, in a year broader Unite Students culture, constructively challenge and when the CEO role transitioned, creating an environment for develop our strategy.
Richard Smiths induction as the people to have confidence to incoming CEO has been critically challenge the norm.
For example, important to develop his Chief we now consider proceeding with Executive skills and relationships certain site acquisitions not and ensure a smooth transition.
conditional on planning, provided The Nomination Committee certain planning risk thresholds are Report pages 64 and 65 describes satisfied.
Below and on the next how we manage our succession two pages, we describe how planning, our broader leadership governance has supported our development, our approach strategy during 2016 and how this is to diversity and inclusivity and linked to our principal risks.
We also how we ensure we have a deep describe our governance priorities talent pipeline.
Shareholder relations Accountability Remuneration and engagement The internal controls and the The Unite remuneration policy and Page 56 describes how we engage Audit Committee Report pages implementation chart page 75 with shareholders, which during 66 to 69, together with our risk and Remuneration at a glance 2016 included a Capital Markets management framework and chart page 76 provide an overview Day in April, which allowed principal risks pages 22 to 29, of this complex area, together with investors to see our Coventry describe how we ensure a fair, the detailed Remuneration Report portfolio and development balanced and understandable pages 73 to 95 describing how we pipeline and the opportunity to assessment of Unites position and ensure Executive Director remuneration interact with our digital operating prospects, the assessment of our is designed to promote the long-term platform, PRISM, and then a second principal risks and their alignment success of the Company and how we Capital Markets Day in December with our strategic objectives and develop our remuneration policy.
in London demonstrating how how we maintain an appropriate PRISM improves and streamlines relationship with Deloitte, our operations.
We also describe our external auditors, consistent in our Remuneration Report pages with the Code and statutory 73 to 95 how we have engaged requirements.
with shareholders during 2016 on our Remuneration Policy and executive remuneration.
52 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE CONTINUED How governance supported our strategy during 2016 Strategic Link to objective Boards governance role Principal Risk 2016 Board activity Great service PRISM Board review of our digital strategy.
26 Read more: Oversight on PRISM delivery and the related Oversight that PRISM delivers: Market risk supply 1 2 3 enhanced customer service and operating and demand r A robust booking system efficiency benefits.
r An improved and scalable platform for revenue management and customer engagement r Enhanced service levels for both Universities and students r Market differentiation.
30 Read more: Operations review Affordability and value for money Analysis of the HE accommodation sector and ensuring we 26 Read more: continue to offer an affordable and value for money product.
Market risk supply 31 and demand Read more: Affordability Health & Safety The Board reviews the safety of our students, visitors and 27 Read more: As we develop our brand through the employees, as well as contractors at our development sites, Operational Risk implementation of Home for Success, the risk of at each Board meeting.
Major health & a health & safety miss damaging our reputation safety H&S incident H&S Committee, a sub-committee of the Board, focus on: only increases.
The Boards governance of the in a property or a r Fire, our biggest safety risk, and the appointment of the health & safety, wellbeing and security of the development site Avon Fire Authority as our Primary Authority lead 49,000 students who make Unite Students their r External safety assurance through the appointment of home is critical to the Groups continued success the British Safety Council as our new external safety auditor and trusted reputation.
r Physical security review of our properties by WSP Parsons Brinckerhoff.
70 Read more: H&S Committee report Home for Success Board review of the ongoing implementation of the 40 million 26 Read more: Challenging the substantial investment in Home Home for Success reinvestment programme.
Strategic review Market risk supply for Success and how it is translating into real and of the next phase of Home for Success to ensure the Group and demand improved customer experiences and stronger continues to deliver improved customer experience in an University relationships.
30 Read more: Operations review Brilliant Development pipeline Board ensured delivery during 2016 of five new developments, 28 Read more: properties Board scrutiny of city and site selection for new representing 3,082 beds on programme and budget.
2,000 Property developments against backdrop of increasing of these secured with long term nominations.
Development risk 1 2 3 competition for the best sites.
Governance of 34 Read more: Property review developments acquisitions to ensure they run to budget and schedule and are earnings accretive.
Yield 2016 PCs Beds on cost Stapleton House 862 8.9% Olympic Way, Wembley 699 8.8% Gosford Gate, Coventry 286 9.0% Greetham St, Portsmouth 836 9.3% Causeway View, Aberdeen 399 9.8% Total 3,082 9.1% Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 53 Key 1 2 3 Great service Brilliant properties Growing and sustainable earnings Strategic Link to objective Boards governance role Principal Risk 2016 Board activity Brilliant Property disposals Board ensuring further growth through development activity.
28 Read more: properties Board oversight on disposals ensuring value During 2016, four schemes exchanged and five planning Property market obtained and proceeds recycled efficiently.
2,152 beds due for delivery in 2017 and good cycle risk 1 2 3 progress on our development and funds pipeline.
2 Read more: Development pipeline Yield 2017 PCs Beds on cost Developments St Leonards Edinburgh 581 9.5% Millennium View, Coventry 391 8.8% Tara House, Liverpool 776 9.3% 1,748 9.3% Forward funds USAF Beech House, Oxford 167 6.0% Luton Court, Edinburgh 237 6.1% Total 2,152 Growing and Capital structure Ongoing Board review of our Capital Operating Guidelines.
29 Read more: sustainable Group Board focus on a strong and flexible Continued focus on locking in debt at historically low rates for Financing risk earnings capital structure, which can adapt to market new debt facilities and forward starting interest swaps for Unable to arrange new conditions, and reducing and diversifying the future borrowings for secured development pipeline.
debt or expiring debt 1 2 3 cost of funding.
At the end of 2016: facilities cannot be replaced or only r Loan-to-value 34% at high cost.
Adverse interest 40 Read more: Financial review rate movements Tax strategy REIT conversion Board review of the Groups tax position and strategy.
Analysis Group Board review of tax strategy for of conversion to REIT and why this is right for the Group.
publication in 2017 and our conversation Oversight of ongoing REIT conditions and headroom for to a REIT.
operating within the Balance of Business REIT tests.
41 Read more: Q&A on REIT conversion Compliance with UK Corporate r Delivery of the development 2017 governance priorities Governance Code pipeline to budget and on time r Great service During 2016, our governance framework with continued focus in towns Student and University expectations was built on the UK Corporate and cities with the strongest are constantly increasing.
Governance Governance Code the Code.
The Code growth prospects to ensure: remained the minimum standard against r Portfolio recycling with disposal which we measured ourselves during proceeds deployed effectively.
r Continued investment in Home for 2016.
We complied with all the provisions Success translating into value for in the Code during 2016 and expect to r Growing and sustainable earnings money for our customers and be fully compliant during 2017.
The Code In the uncertain world following the market differentiation is published by the Financial Reporting Leave vote, Governance to ensure: r PRISM, our scalable digital Council FRC and is available at operating platform, delivering www.
r A strong and flexible capital improved customer service, structure to enable us to adapt efficiency and thus affordability.
Phil White appropriately to market conditions Chairman of the Board as the cycle evolves r Brilliant properties 22 February 2017 r Compliance with ongoing REIT PBSA sector maturing.
Governance status following conversion on to ensure: 1 January 2017
