Overview Chairmans Governance Statement Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information An effective Board Our externally facilitated performance evaluation is conducted every three years.
The last one was conducted in March 2015 and it confirmed that the Board and its Committees operate effectively, with all Directors contributing to the overall performance of the Group.
The performance evaluation process for this year was led by me and assisted by the Company Secretary.
This years review took the form of a questionnaire which was completed by the Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
The questionnaires covered the processes and performance of the Board and its Committees.
The Company Secretary consolidated the responses and prepared reports for me, as Chairman, as well as for the W e are committed to conducting Chairmen of the relevant Committees.
The findings were discussed at our Board meeting in March 2016. business responsibly.
Corporate Governance is an integral part of The performance of the Executive Directors was assessed the way we manage our business.
by the Remuneration Committee as part of the salary review process.
Daniel Kitchen Non-Executive Chairman I am delighted to confirm that no significant issues were raised and the view of the Board is that the governance structure, together with the Board and its Committees, all Dear Shareholder continue to operate effectively, with a positive and open culture.
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Companys Corporate Governance Report for the financial However, as a Board we want to continue to strengthen our year ended 31 March 2016. governance and the evaluation highlighted a few specic recommendations that form the basis of our action plan for The Corporate Governance Report provides insights about the current year.
Details of these recommendations can be how the Board operated during the year and the key issues found on page 84 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The Company fully complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
Full Furthermore, I am satisfied that the Non-Executive details of the Companys governance arrangements in Directors, all of whom are standing for re-election at the compliance with the Principles of the UK Corporate forthcoming Annual General Meeting, continue to be Governance Code are included on page 65 to 124. effective and show a high level of commitment to their roles.
Why is good governance important to us?
The Board of Workspace is committed to conducting The independence of our Non-Executive Directors is business responsibly and in a sustainable manner having extremely important to us in maintaining good governance.
regard to the long-term success of the business.
In doing I mentioned last year that the Board will annually assess the so, we believe it is essential to maintain high standards of independence of Stephen Hubbard, prior to his Corporate Governance in terms of leadership, reappointment at the AGM.
Stephen is Chairman of CBRE remuneration matters, accountability, Board effectiveness UK and is a member of their Management Board.
The and our relationship with shareholders.
Valuation Advisory Division of CBRE acts as the Groups external valuer and, recognising the effect that this may Corporate Governance at Workspace is treated as an have on the perception of his independence, and in view of important discipline which complements our desire to this continuing relationship, the Board has considered continuously improve the performance of the Company.
Stephens independence as a Non-Executive Director.
The Our approach to governance is set by the Board and our Board is completely satisfied that he remains independent Executive Committee ensures that the approach is in judgement and character.
It has been agreed that effectively implemented across the business.
Stephen will not take part in any considerations of the valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
In addition, he will have no involvement in any discussions or decisions regarding CBRE or the fees paid to them.
"63""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairmans Governance Statement continued We are keen to ensure that Non-Executive Directors are Review of risks provided with sufficient information, access to our portfolio An area of increasing focus for the Company is around and people, to enable them to support and offer cyber security risk."
This is being closely monitored by the constructive challenge to the executive management team.
Risk Committee and the Board, with useful guidance They engaged in visits to a number of the Companys published by both the Government and our advisors.
The feedback from both the Workspace recognises the serious and increasing threat Non-Executive Directors and our on-site staff is that these that cyber crime represents to all businesses, and the visits are very constructive and we will continue them in potential it has to cause significant interruption to future.
businesses, as well as financial losses.
Consequently, in order to recognise the heightened threat, we have included During the year, I also held a number of Board dinners, cyber security as a distinct risk in its own right in our risk ahead of scheduled Board meetings.
We have found that register for regular review.
We are also undertaking a the dinners provide a further opportunity to engage in review of our IT security to ensure we adhere to best open debate between Directors on a wide range of matters practice wherever possible.
We remain focused on affecting the business.
As a result, I nd that the debate at reviewing and improving the IT infrastructure and the following formal meeting is generally more focused, enhancing our internal processes to allow us to identify with constructive and well formulated views expressed by potential attacks and take appropriate, mitigating action.
We are also increasing our efforts to raise staff awareness in this area by issuing updates through internal Meeting our shareholders communication and training.
We have continued to operate a comprehensive investor relations programme during the year with our Executive This year we have published our Viability Statement which Directors regularly meeting with investors and analysts.
can be found on page 52 and takes into account the I am available to meet shareholders when required.
principal risks faced by the Group.
Succession planning I am pleased with the progress we have made this year The Board is actively engaged in succession planning for across the governance agenda.
We have built a committed both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
This ensures Board that is working well in the interests of all that the Board composition continues to be appropriate shareholders and each Director continues to contribute and, therefore, effective.
This is delivered through a series effectively.
of reviews during the year, which covers both Executive Director and Senior Management succession and Daniel Kitchen development.
Non-Executive Chairman 7 June 2016 New legislation The revised Corporate Governance Code 2014 has been applied by the Company in preparing this Annual Report and Accounts and the Board has received a number of briengs and discussed in detail the implementation of the new provisions including risk management and the Viability Statement.
The Modern Slavery Act came into force in October 2015.
Having conducted a review of the requirements and completed a risk review, action has been taken to incorporate a compliance clause in our standard supplier contract.
A formal policy dealing with slavery and human trafficking has also been prepared and a programme of staff training is also being conducted.
The Board also considered the implications of the Market Abuse Regulations, effective from July 2016, and we are making the appropriate changes to our internal processes, together with a programme of training for relevant staff.
"64""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 R e m u n e r a t i o n p i h s r e d a e L A e c c c n o a n u r n e v t Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information How governance supports our strategy The Board plays a critical role in setting the strategic direction of the business and ensuring that through its governance framework it is being delivered."
Effective risk management is a key part of protecting shareholder value by being proactive and responsive as a business in a fast-paced market.
The principles in the Code set the framework for how the Board, through its governance activities, provides effective oversight of delivering against the strategy.
Leadership Accountability Effectiveness Remuneration Relations with The Board is The work of the Audit The Nomination Through the work of Shareholders responsible for setting Committee plays an Committee continues the Remuneration Explaining the the tone to embed the important role to to make sure the Committee, the strategy and how it is Groups strategy into provide the necessary Board has the Companys policy is being operationalised the business.
The safeguards to necessary skills and to align reward of the through our business Board carefully manage risks and experience to Executive Directors model is an important monitors the progress achieve high understand the with the performance part of the Boards of the strategy and standards in market and provide of the Company and work in keeping receives regular transparency and challenge to the incentivise long-term shareholders briengs on the state accountability to business to deliver and sustainable value.
informed on the of the London shareholders.
On performance and an annual basis the future prospects.
Board has a strategy day to review progress and ensure that the strategy and business plans are responsive to Chris Girling the market conditions.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Daniel Kitchen Maria Moloney Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman Director Graham Clemett Damon Russell Chief Financial Non-Executive 1.
Right Right brand properties Jamie Hopkins Stephen Hubbard Our Chief Executive Non-Executive strategy Officer Director 4.
"Right Right people customers Executive Board member and Executive Committee member Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 65""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 a o b G i l i d t s o y r o e G d l o h e r a h S h t i w s n o i t a l e E R ff e c t i v e n e s s"
