38 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Corporate responsibility We recognise our responsibility to our operations.
During 2014, we held Although we had already achieved our shareholders, employees, customers, initial discussions with Business in five-year target on CO emissions relative 2 suppliers and the wider community to the Community, a leading charitable to revenue as at the end of last year, our conduct our operations in a safe, responsible organisation in this field, to help performance slipped in 2014 to a 7% reduction compared to our baseline year and sustainable manner.
We believe that our developour thinking further.
focus on corporate responsibility creates which means that we did not reach our value for Meggitt and our stakeholders.
Activity in 2014 five-year CO reduction target by the end of 2 Ithelps us manage our businesses more 2014.
The increase in CO emissions in Environment 2 2014 was primarily due to a significant efficiently, which in turn helps us mitigate Meggitt strives to achieve high levels risks, reduce costs and protect the increase in electricity and gas consumption of environmental performance communities in which we operate.
We are in our US carbon manufacturing operations throughout our businesses based also committed to ensuring compliance with because of an increase in production as on standards and procedures set by all relevant national laws and regulations new aircraft programmes enter service.
Toachieve the goals and aim to continually improve our financial, of our Environmental Policy, Meggitts We recycle an estimated average of 87,000 social and environmental performance.
environmental management programme cubic metres of water each year through closed-loop water recycling systems includes setting environmental targets, Policy installed at several facilities.
Other water communicating regulatory developments, We are committed to: training and information-sharing, data conservation measures include Upholding sound corporate analysis and internal and external installation of thermostatically controlled governanceprinciples: water circulation systems on process auditing of environmental management Providing a supportive, rewarding tanks reducing evaporative losses.
andsafe working environment with 2014, despite an increase in cooling water modern operational practices: Our global environmental audit programme, used in our carbon manufacturing supported by external consultants, includes Conducting business relationships in operations, our closed-loop recycling a comprehensive review of applicable anethical and responsible manner: systems and other water conservation regulatory requirements and best Minimising the environmental impact of efforts resulted in a decrease in absolute practice standards at all manufacturing products and processes and maintaining water consumption and consumption facilities every three years.
In total,  environmental relative to revenue and we remain on track 16sites were audited in 2014. management systems: to meet our five-year target of reducing Acting as a responsible supplier and water consumption relative to revenue.
Some 86% of our manufacturing encouraging our contractors and facilitieshad achieved ISO 14001 We were able to realise the benefits of suppliers to do the same:  by the end of 2014. integrating the waste minimisation ideals Independent audits in key Theremaining facilities are targeting of the Meggitt Production System MPS by complianceareas: certification in 2015. reducing the environmental impact of Supporting our local communities: and waste at many facilities within the Group Performance Professional and comprehensive and were able to decrease the absolute Table 1 shows our performance for key employee training programmes.
amount of waste generated by 13%.
An environmental metrics and Table 2 example of the progress made in 2014 is at showsour progress on achieving Governance and compliance one of our US braking systems facilities, internallyset targets.
Health, safety and environment HSE, ethics which found a way to recycle carbon dust and business conduct and trade compliance Our performance is on track to meet from carbon brake disk machining into are managed by a highly experienced team targets for most metrics, but facility electrically conductive plastic.
This facility of functional specialists, under the consolidations and increased production of also identified a recycling method for leadership of the Corporate Affairs Director.
carbon brakes has impacted our progress waste carbon insulation as an oxygen Divisional presidents and site directors are on electricity and waste recycled in 2014. scavenger in third-party metal recovery responsible for implementing policies and 1 programmes locally.
Environmental metrics Table 1 2014 Change 2013 Board-approved policies on corporate Utilities responsibility, health and safety, ElectricitygWh 201 192 environment, ethics and business conduct MWh per m revenue 127 6% 120 and trade compliance are published on the Natural gasgWh 190 183 policies section of our website.
MWh per m revenue 120 4% 115 The Boards Ethics and Trade Compliance 1 GHG Emissions CO e tonnes 131,897 126,720 2 Committee meets quarterly to discuss these Tonnes per m revenue 83.5 5% 79.3 programmes in detail.
HSE matters are Wastetonnes 12,200 14,182 reviewed and discussed at every Tonnes per m revenue 7.72 -13% 8.87 Boardmeeting.
Watercubic metres 722,200 744,196 Cubic metres per m revenue 457 -2% 466 Sustainability Meggitt appreciates the importance of 1 Metrics per m are calculated using revenue converted at constant exchange rates.
Greenhouse gas conducting business in a sustainable emissions are calculated using conversion factors published in the 2013 and 2014 Guidelines to DEFRA manner and we will continue to incorporate DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Emissions from overseas electricity are in CO 2 this principle into the way we carry out only not CO e. The 2013 reported GHG emissions have been restated to reflect the change in using the 2 updated conversion factors.
indd 38 04 03 2015 16:40 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 39 furnaces.
In total, these efforts have Targets Table 2 resulted in the facility diverting 35 tonnes Target Achieved during Five year improvement performance of waste away from landfill.
Since 2007, Baseline performance period over performance period up to we have been a participant in the Carbon year financial years period 31 December 2014 Disclosure Project CDP detailing our CO emissions 2009 To 31 December 2014 -15% -7% 2 approach and performance in managing Gas 2011 To 31 December 2016 -15% -11% climate change.
In 2014, we increased our Electricity 2011 To 31 December 2016 -15% 10% score by 60% and our submission can be Water consumption 2011 To 31 December 2016 -10% -6% viewed on the CDP website.
Waste to landfill 2011 To 31 December 2016 -10% -6% Waste recycled 2011 To 31 December 2016 10% 0% Greenhouse gas emissions GHG Table 3 shows the GHG emissions data for the Large and Medium-Sized Companies The carbon refurbishment programme REACH is managed by the Groups REACH and Groups Accounts and Reports at our braking systems facility in Akron, Steering Committee which continues to Regulation 2013 the Regulations.
US continued to expand in 2014 with a address the risks associated with the Thesites reporting GHG data are the 59% increase in carbon discs recovered potential obsolescence of chemicals used sameas those consolidated in the and refurbished from 2013.
in processing time and associated continuously track substances regulated energy consumption of around 81% under REACH and work closely with our We had an absolute increase in our GHG resulted in savings of approximately chemical suppliers to ensure substances emissions in 2014 and our GHG emissions 2,300 tonnes of CO that would have are registered and will be approved for relative to revenue increased slightly 2 otherwise been emitted in 2014. continued use, or a suitable alternative due to an increase in electricity and identified.
We participate in an aerospace natural gas consumed in our US carbon Meggitt UK facilities will be required industry group involved in researching the manufacturing operations as described tocomply with the Energy Savings replacement of hexavalent chromium used above.
Notwithstanding, this increase was Opportunity Scheme ESOS in 2015. in common applications impacting partially offset by reductions in electricity Asaresult, the facilities comprising at aerospace manufacturing.
and gas consumption and associated least 90% of our energy consumption in GHG emissions elsewhere due to site the UK will undergo energy assessments.
Obsolescence consolidations and energy efficiency Conducted by certified lead assessors, The Obsolescence Review Board ORB measures as well as an increase in carbon these will assist us in identifying additional continued to identify and define a recycling and reuse under our carbon energy conservation opportunities.
The coordinated response to issues refurbishment initiative described below.
ESOS is derived from European Union EU potentially affecting our business legislation and it is likely that EU member To align the Groups emissions targets including conflict minerals, counterfeit countries will implement similar schemes with the Regulations, we will be setting and fraudulent materials and chemical requiring energy assessments for other new five-year GHG emission reduction obsolescence.
Working with our EU Meggittfacilities.
targets from 2016 using 2015 as the customers and suppliers, we continue to baseline year.
We will set separate GHG strive for the reduction and substitution of We recognise the need to reduce our reduction targets for our carbon materials and substances impacted by dependence on fossil fuels and are manufacturing operations due to the regulatory developments, performing actively investigating cleaner energy unique and complex process involved.
material assessments, surveying our technologies including fuel cell power suppliers and undertaking reliability and generation systems and solar energy Saving energy qualification testing of alternatives.
In 2014, we achieved reductions in key sustainability metrics through investments REACH Health and safety in several energy efficiency projects.
These Compliance with the European Community We want our employees to work in safe and are exemplified by upgrading compressed regulation on Registration, Evaluation, secure environments and believe that air plants, improving furnace controls and Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals occupational injuries and illnesses are installing high efficiency lighting and controls at our facilities as follows: 1 GHG emissions data Table 3 Recladding of roofing insulation at 2 2014 2013 a UK facility resulted in improved Tonnes of Tonnes of heating and cooling efficiencies.
CO e CO e 2 2 Significant lighting upgrade projects 3 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 35,693 34,239 at several facilities, saving around Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 96,204 92,480 300 tonnes of CO per annum.
2 131,897 126,719 Replacement of fluorescent lighting with Intensity measurement: more efficient LED lighting and Emissions reported above, normalised to tonnes per m revenue 83.5 79.3 replacement of two inefficient boilers 1 Global GHG emissions are calculated using conversion factors published in the Guidelines to DEFRA with higher efficiency rated gas boilers DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Emissions factors from overseas electricity are at another of our UK facilities saving in CO only not CO e. 2 2 25 tonnes of CO per annum.
The same 2 2 2013 numbers have been restated to the updated 2013 conversion factors.
3 facility made insulation upgrades to Does not include GHG emissions generated from Meggitt-owned and operated vehicles or refrigerant improve heating and cooling efficiencies.
gases as these emissions are not material to the Groups emissions.
indd 39 04 03 2015 16:40 40 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Local communities and Reportable accidents and incidents Table 4 charitable donations 2014 Change 2013 We are committed to being good 1 Reportable accidents and incidents 36 3% 35 corporate citizens, and continue to 2 Reportable accident incident rate 337 6% 317 support the communities in which we 1 Directly reportable to a regulatory authority.
Our businesses and employees 2 The number of reportable accidents incidents per 100,000 employees.
give back to our communities through volunteerism, educational business partnerships and charitable donations preventable.
Our health and safety policy year average performance for years 2009 as demonstrated by the following: makes clear that we do not tolerate unsafe to 2011.
Of those, 23 facilities will receive behaviours or conditions in our workplaces a Platinum Safety Star award for Since 2007, we have continued to and that we seek to continuously improve outstanding performance in 2014. sponsor the Arkwright Engineering our safety culture and performance with an Scholarship Trust, an independent, As reported in last years annual report, we ultimate goal of zero injuries and illnesses.
charity that identifies, inspires and continue to cooperate fully with regulatory In 2014, we continued to implement nurtures future leaders in engineering authorities in the investigation of the fatal measures to improve safety in the and technical design.
The scholarship accident that occurred at our Rockmart, workplace.
These included: supports Science, Technology, USfacility last year and we expect the Group-wide online health and safety Engineering and Mathematics STEM investigation to conclude in 2015. awareness training for all employees: initiatives that grant an annual financial award to young scholars and their Implementation of a behavioural Ethics and business conduct schools.
The 2014 scholar will benefit health and safety programme at five and trade compliance from mentoring by an experienced facilities in 2014, with plans to roll it Our ethics and business conduct member of the Meggitt Global out at another ten facilities in 2015: programme commits us to conducting Engineering Group and valuable work Development of a health and safety business fairly, impartially and in experience over the next two years.
maturity index and a revision of the compliance with laws and regulations Meggitt US businesses and employees Meggitt Safety Star recognition andacting with integrity and honesty have donated over USD 1 million in the programme to focus on proactive inour business relationships.
past five years to the United Way, a health and safety leading indicators.
In 2014, we provided training across the US-based non-profit organisation This will emphasise the importance Group, on our Code of Conduct, Reporting focusing on resolving local community ofpreventative actions to reduce ConcernsSomeone Elses Problem, and issues through partnerships with local incidents and injuries occurring Global Anti-Corruption.
We held two schools, government agencies and intheworkplace: in-house ethics conferences, one in the UK voluntary and neighbourhood Integration of the reporting and and one in the USA, where facility-based associations.
Several Meggitt US investigation of near-miss accidents ethics coordinators reviewed and provided businesses hold annual United Way and unsafe conditions with MPS: feedback on the Ethics Programme.
As a drives to encourage employee result of this feedback, we are redesigning engagement in local community Continued dissemination of our Ethics Guide, which will be available to information and best practice through activities and initiatives designed to all staff in printed form and on our website.
intra-Group HSE conferences, health improve education, financial stability Meggitt is a charter member of the and safety alerts and all-employee and health care for local families.
International Forum on Business Ethical safety bulletins.
Our McMinnville Oregon facility Conduct for the aerospace and defence Roll out of a further three new Meggitt partnered with local businesses, industries and Barney Rosenberg, our Vice health and safety procedures across community leaders and the President, Ethics and Business Conduct, the Group.
McMinnville Economic Development serves on the Steering Committee that Partnership to establish a runs this global organisation.
As a result of these measures we have manufacturing training programme at made good progress on some of our The Board revised the Trade Compliance a local high school to address a safety metrics across the Group, Policy which is available on our website shortage of skilled local labour.
We have a highly-developed trade Meggitt donated equipment USOccupational Safety and Health compliance programme, based on the andmaterials for student training and Administration OSHA recordable Nunn-Wolfowitz Task Force Report of 2000 assisted in developing the syllabus.
frequency rate for our US operations the influential report on export compliance Local congressional officials who compared to the prior year.
However, due best practice and guidelines issued by visited the high school and Meggitt to a substantial increase in the number of the regulatory authorities.
During 2014, facility acknowledged the importance reported incidents at a small number of we continued to implement our global ofinnovative partnerships between the our sites, the Group overall experienced trade management software solution to private sector and local schools to aslight increase in reportable incidents enhance our trade compliance programme, provide training leading to well-paid and associated incident rates, as shown and continued implementation of our local manufacturing jobs.
In 2014, 80% 2013: 80% of our enhanced import compliance programme ofthe schools 400 students enrolled.
manufacturing facilities achieved at least at anumber of facilities in the US and the a Bronze Meggitt Safety Star award UK.
We also implemented Phases 2 to 5 reflecting a 25% improvement in health of the US Governments Export Control and safety performance over the threeReformprogramme.
indd 40 04 03 2015 16:40 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 41 1 Analysis of employees Table 5 Employees by division Employees by length Employees by region of service years Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees 10,823 10,823 10,823 Aircraft Braking Systems 1,267 12% Less than 5 4,841 45% USA 5,385 50% Control Systems 1,902 17% Between 5 and 10 2,252 21% UK 2,847 26% Polymers & Composites 1,827 17% Between 10 and 15 1,211 11% Mainland Europe 1,554 14% Sensing Systems 3,120 29% Between 15 and 20 976 9% Rest of World 1,037 10% Equipment Group 1,995 18% Between 20 and 25 350 3% Cross-group facilities 712 7% Over 25 1,193 11% 1 As at 31 December 2014.
Our Poole UK facility partnered with Table 6 the local Bournemouth and Poole % of females at College to develop an apprenticeship Level 31 December 2014 Number of females Number of males and training programme.
Board of Directors 20% 2 8 An annual charitable golf outing Executive Board 13% 1 7 sponsored by our Saginaw, Michigan Senior executives 9% 22 236 facility is held in June, donating funds to All employees 29% 3,111 7,712 the local amyotrophic lateral sclerosis association and the Saginaw YMCA.
Equal opportunities all-employee Town Hall meetings, team In the UK, our Birmingham facility The Group supports equal employment briefings and works councils.
We respect commemorated the 100-year opportunities and opposes all forms all employee relations regulations.
anniversary of the start of World War 1 ofunlawful or unfair discrimination.
Corporate communications take a variety with support for the Help for Heroes ItisGroup policy to give full and fair of forms, including presentations from military charity.
consideration to job applications from the Chief Executive via audio-visual disabled people, to provide opportunities media, global web-enabled conferences, Our employees for their training, career development publications such as the Meggitt Review andpromotion and to continue Learning, career development, employee and a variety of  whereverpossible to employ staff engagement, strong leadership and newsletters.
Results presentations are effective teamwork are vital components whobecomedisabled.
disseminated across the Group, which of Meggitts performance culture.
We require all Meggitt employees, enhance our employees understanding of Various initiatives are underway, many reinforced through our ethics training the financial and economic factors programme and its values, to treat all ofwhich have overt goals to improve or affecting its performance.
colleagues fairly and with respect.
Investment in The directors encourage employees to recognise the value of diversity amongst learning and development is one.
We become shareholders to improve active continue to increase corporate training our employees.
Table 6 shows the number participation in, and commitment to, the of women employed at all levels of the enabling employees from different Groups success.
This policy has been workforce.
The Boards approach to businesses to learn together and create pursued for all UK employees through the diversity is discussed in the Nominations acommon culture.
The most significant Share Incentive Plan and the investment is in MPS, our single, global Committee report see page 54.
approach to the application of lean tools Human rights and other continuous improvement We confirm our commitment to the Strategic report practices.
The purpose of MPS is to human rights of our employees in our ensure that everything we do and This 2014 Strategic report on pages 1 Corporate Responsibility Policy, which everyone who does it supports the to41 is hereby signed on behalf of the weapply across all our businesses.
Our very successful graduate training Employee consultation scheme continues with a third generation The Group regards employee of graduates and post-graduates from communication as a vital business some of the worlds best engineering function.
Our next executive leadership is carried out at facilities by operations programme begins in 2015, tailored for directors and other line managers using Stephen Young Meggitt by the Sad Business School avariety of forums including daily Chief Executive see page 20. meetings on shop floors, monthly 23 February 2015 93987 p38-41.
