Melrose Industries PLC 50 50 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Corporate Social Responsibility Contents 1.
Employee involvement, consultation and development 3.
Human rights and ethical standards Internal communication initiatives foster a culture of openness.
Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 51 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review 1.
Employment policies The Group recognises its responsibilities for the fair treatment of all its current and potential employees in accordance with legislation applicable to the territories within which it operates, together with relevant guidance on good practice where appropriate.
Due to the diverse nature of the Groups activities, businesses are required to manage their employment matters on a decentralised basis: therefore, responsibility for the adoption of employment policies and practices sits at a local business unit level.
This position ensures that rigorous and targeted policies and procedures are implemented that meet both site and local regulatory requirements, taking into account the size and nature of the businesses.
As part of this decentralised approach, each business is responsible for setting World class manufacturing and measuring its own employment and facilities and engineering.
employee-related KPIs and, as such, these vary throughout the Group.
However, such measurements will generally include absenteeism, punctuality, headcount and works with the business community to also used to communicate and engage employee relations issues.
understand the changes required in the with employees, and to solicit their workplace in order that disabled people feedback on issues of concern to them Any concerns or adverse trends are are treated fairly so that they can as employees.
responded to in a timely manner.
contribute to business success, to Furthermore, as a Group-wide policy Extensive training is available to all staff society and to economic growth.
and so far as particular disabilities permit, and is actively encouraged to ensure the Company and each of its businesses The Group regards employee training and that a high standard of skill is maintained will, where practicable, give employees advancement as an essential element of across the Group.
Cross-training disabled during their period of employment industrial relations.
programmes are also in place at a number continued employment in the same job, of the Groups businesses.
The importance or a suitable alternative job, together with of training extends beyond on-the-job appropriate training and or re-training.
training and also focuses on enhancing 2.
Apprenticeship Equal opportunities for appropriate consultation and development programmes are in place, which help training, career development and The Group attaches great importance to assist with succession planning in promotion are also available to all to good labour relations, employee locations where there is an ageing employees within the Group regardless engagement and employee development.
Employees are encouraged of any physical disability, gender, religion, The diverse nature of the Groups to think in an innovative manner across race, nationality, sexual orientation or age.
activities places the responsibility for the Group and have regard for both the implementation and management Applications for employment by disabled financial and economic factors affecting of employment practices with local persons are always fully and fairly the Group.
management, in a manner appropriate considered by the Group and are to each business.
considered on merit, with regard only to the job-specific requirements and the A culture of clear communication and relevant applicants aptitude and ability employee consultation and engagement 24% to carry out the role.
Where reasonable is inherent in the Groups businesses.
to do so, arrangements wll be made to Employee briefing sessions with employee of Melrose Group employees enable disabled persons to carry out a representatives are held on a regular basis are women specific role.
It is the policy of the Group to communicate strategy, key changes, that in recruitment, training, career financial results, achievements and other development and promotion, the treatment important issues to employees, and of disabled persons should, as far as receive feedback from them on these possible, be identical to that of other issues.
Melrose is proud to be a surveys, notice boards, team meetings, member of the Business Disability Forum, suggestion boxes and newsletters are a not-for-profit member organisation that Melrose Industries PLC 52 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Corporate Social Responsibility continued Operators in Lotte, Germany, Brush takes the health and well-being assembling precision electronic of its employees very seriously and has measurement devices for Elster continued to develop and enhance its Smart gas meters.
Occupational Health Service, which is available to employees five days a week.
The service can make referrals to doctors, physiotherapists or counselling services as required to ensure that the business supports its employees through any periods of absence or illness.
Health promotion is a key feature of the service that is continually developing through awareness campaigns, which in turn has a positive impact on both the employee and the business.
Elster Electricity introduced new internal communication initiatives in 2014: a further step in fostering a culture of clear and open communication.
In September 2014, the first global webcast Electricity LIVE took place, hosted by the global management team.
The first global newsletter, Electricity CurrentAffairs, containing contributions from employees worldwide, was distributed in December 3.
Employee initiatives In 2014, Brush UK launched a new 2014.
Specialised newsletters are also Graduate Scheme, illustrating its During 2014, the Groups businesses issued bi-monthly, providing employees commitment to recruiting bright minds implemented a range of employee-related with important business facts and news and fresh talent for the future.
Some of these are listed below: regarding the software business.
graduate programme includes an Recognising that leadership is critical to overseas placement so that the graduates Elster Electricitys 2014 Global Leadership the success of its business, Brush UK gain international experience within the Development Programme involved has developed and implemented a organisation preparing them for a two strategy workshops, two training Leadership Development Programme successful future with Brush.
To ensure sessions on change management and which has external accreditation to the the success of this programme, Brush a four-day training session on leadership Institute of Leadership & Management.
representatives attended a number of for 42 employees.
It is structured to allow talent to develop job fairs to promote the programme Two Elster Gas leadership conferences and grow within the business.
The and discuss it with potential graduates.
These were attended programme has been designed to This included the Graduate Engineer by senior management, managing reflect the development needs of the and Science Show in London.
Brush has directors and other executives from organisation and through the Problem also been active in the local community, across the Elster Gas businesses.
Solving Module participants identify a attending careers fairs at local schools The conferences involved knowledge business improvement opportunity which encouraging young people to consider sharing and discussions on business creates a return on investment in the engineering and manufacturing as a priorities and strategic targets.
Participants present their career choice.
Such events also promote opportunities to the Brush Executive the employer branding of Brush in a wider Elster Gas conducted their first international to underline how they have applied their sphere as an employer of choice.
employee engagement survey in 2014 learning in the operational environment.
covering the major parts of the business.
Brush continues to value the contribution Teams were set up to work on the analysis The Brush Group launched a Customer that apprentices bring to the organisation and evaluation of the survey results and Connection Programme in 2014 and another 10 apprentices joined Brush the development of action plans, in order supporting its global vision statement UK in 2014 bringing the total current to improve employee engagement.
The objective of the number of apprentices to 56 at various programme is to develop the employees stages of their four year apprenticeship.
Elster Water launched an improved ability to exceed the expectations of both The apprentice scheme is continually performance management system in the internal and external customers and developing and evolving to bring together 2014 to ensure that all employees are maximise these relationships.
During a blend of technical training, academic aware of the business objectives and the programme, employees identify a learning and personal development to how they individually contribute to the Customer Innovation Project which create a future talent pipeline for Brush.
delivers a return on investment in the company and is presented to the Brush Executive at the end of the programme.
Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 53 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review 4.
Health and safety There were no issues or concerns identified by the Melrose Board during The charts below show the total number The Directors of the Company are 2014.
While no corrective measures were of males and females working within the committed to minimising the health and deemed necessary, the Board as always Group as at 31 December 2014. safety risks that each of the Groups encourages business unit management employees are exposed to by promoting to remain vigilant where employee and the effective use and management of third party safety is concerned.
business specific policies and procedures.
Many manufacturing locations within the The Group has a policy to ensure that the Group hold ISO 18001 certification, the Directors are made aware of any serious internationally recognised assessment health and safety incidents, wherever they Total Group employees standard for occupational health and occur in the world, without delay, to ensure safety management systems.
Male 6,672 that suitable investigations and corrective 2.
Female 2,090 action can be organised.
Current events and Divisional managers within each business issues relating to health and safety matters unit have responsibility to ensure that are also discussed within the Group at health and safety remains a key focus quarterly Board meetings of the Company.
and to ensure that active procedures and monitoring systems are in place.
Each business is responsible for setting Detailed health and safety plans are set its own detailed arrangements concerning by businesses each year to determine health and safety policies and procedures, annual targets and improvement initiatives.
in accordance with local health and safety legislation.
As a general rule, businesses All businesses have Health and Safety 1 Senior managers strive to achieve best practice, in terms of Committees H&S Committees, which what is suitable and practical for the size meet on a regular basis and are made up 1.
Male 8 and nature of their operations.
Female 0 of representatives from both management business specific health and safety key and shop floor level personnel.
Each of performance indicators are also used the H&S Committees has wide-ranging within the Groups businesses.
responsibilities which vary from business to business and include the review of reported Reports detailing business unit incidents and the monitoring of incident performances in relation to three trends.
These H&S Committees are also health and safety KPIs Major Accident responsible for ensuring that corrective Frequency Rate: Accident Frequency measures are implemented when accidents Rate: and Accident Severity Rate are occur and that all incidents, whether or not presented to the Board and reviewed Melrose Industries PLC Board they are deemed reportable under local at each quarterly Board meeting.
legislation, are given due attention.
Female 2,089 1 D efined as senior head office employees of Health, safety and Melrose Industries PLC, located in the London, sustainability are integral Birmingham and Atlanta offices.
Melrose Industries PLC 54 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Corporate Social Responsibility continued One of the key responsibilities for these 6.
Health and safety initiatives Following the highly successful H&S Committees is to carry out regular implementation and external audit During 2014, many of the Groups tours of the premises in which they work, of the OHSAS 18001 system in businesses implemented a range of in order to ensure compliance with local Romania in October 2014, and to health and safety initiatives.
Some of policies and procedures.
These tours support Elster Electricitys increased these are listed below: also identify potential hazards, for which commitment to Occupational Health During 2014, Brush UK implemented counter-measures can be identified to and Safety OHS, OHSAS 18001 will a behavioural safety programme to prevent accidents from happening.
be further implemented within EMEA continue to evolve the very strong Each H&S Committee recommendation and externally audited throughout 2015. health and safety culture within the is followed up at the next divisional Board This initiative demonstrates Elster business.
The programme focuses meeting to ensure that issues are resolved.
Electricitys continued commitment on developing a proactive approach Additionally, operations are audited by to employee well-being.
among Brush employees so that they the H&S Committee at least annually and It is a policy of Elster Gas that all major increase their responsibility and reports of performance and recommended manufacturing plants are certified to accountability for their own and their improvements are prepared and circulated OHSAS 18001 to promote world class working groups actions while ensuring to the divisional senior management health and safety practices.
Several they intervene at the earliest opportunity teams.
Divisional managers are provided major plants are now accident free.
to stop an unsafe act or correct an with detailed health and safety reports on unsafe condition.
a frequent basis to ensure that such During the year, the Accident Frequency matters are given high visibility and that Rate for the global Elster Gas business The business has recognised the improvements are authorised and was reduced by 30% when compared following benefits: implemented quickly.
At the same time, the Accident Severity Rate saw a 50% A 100% reduction in reportable reduction.
The improvement in both accidents to the Health and Safety metrics demonstrates the leaderships Executive: commitment to improving the welfare An engaged workforce in matters of all Elster Gas employees worldwide.
relating to health and safety: A clear demonstration of the Brush Elster Waters 2013 comprehensive OHS managements intentions to review and improvement initiative was continually improve the standard completed in H1 2014.
Elster Water sites of health and safety within the with assembly and or test processes business: and were re-audited after completion of A recognition that a strong health minor improvements and confirmed and safety culture can have a positive compliant to national and international impact on the growth and brand OHS standards.
All operational processes are subject Elster Electricity carried out numerous Divisional managers are to continuous review by senior site health and safety initiatives in various management to confirm compliance to provided with detailed countries in 2014.
This included an OHS standards.
Elster Water applies a initiative at Elster Electricity UK which health and safety reports no-risk tolerance in order to provide a provided training and awareness in key safe and clean work environment for all on a frequent basis.
areas including fire marshalling, first aid, its employees.
manual handling, safety management and risk control.
In Brazil, personal safety procedures for risk areas were implemented and weekly five minute health and safety talks were held with all production employees at Elster Electricitys Mexican site.
In the US, safety audits were conducted by an external third party to provide a safer working environment for all employees.
Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 55 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review 7.
Environmental initiatives At Elster Electricity in Mexico, a tree day was held in 2014 which involved the The Melrose Board fully understands the During 2014, many of the Groups donation of trees for reforestation.
importance of the Groups environmental businesses implemented a range of responsibilities.
Each of the Companys environmental improvement initiatives.
It is a policy of Elster Gas that all major businesses is committed to ensuring that Some of these are listed below: manufacturing plants are certified to their operations have a minimum possible OHSAS 14001 to promote world class Brush UK focused on making further adverse effect on the environment.
Savings were countries the 2013 certifications were Although there are no standardised made in gas consumption 19% saving renewed following audit approvals.
In environmental KPIs currently used within from 2013 and electricity consumption the first quarter of 2014, both facilities the Group, each business understands 0.5% saving from 2013.
Lighting initiatives in Germany were certified.
the importance of monitoring the impact across the Loughborough site have of its operations on the environment.
generated savings in certain working A comprehensive environmental A range of KPIs are used as environmental facilities of between 47% and 72%.
measurement and reporting system was measures, including energy consumption, introduced for all Elster Gas manufacturing To increase awareness of environmental CO emissions, water consumption, 2 operations which tracks six key KPIs as management and to complement the water contamination, waste disposal, part of the monthly operations review.
The existing ISO 14001 certifications at the solid and liquid waste generation, KPIs measure electricity consumption, gas operations in Romania, the UK, and recycling and volatile organic compound consumption and hence together CO, Russia, standardised processes are 2 emissions.
Environmental performance water consumption, solid waste generation being implemented across Elster is measured using KPIs in order that and % recycled, liquid waste generation Electricity.
To ensure best practice and each of the businesses can plan for and Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs transparency, these new processes will ongoing reductions.
Performance against these continue to be aligned with ISO 14001 KPIs improved in 2014.
During the year, the Company continued to and will be externally audited.
comply with the ongoing annual reporting Elster Water meters and radio equipment Elster Electricity constantly increases requirements of the UKs Carbon Reduction contain lithium batteries.
These batteries product features while optimising its power Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
are defined as dangerous goods under consumption, having a positive impact the UN Recommendations on the on energy saving, energy distribution Transport of Dangerous Goods.
Elster costs and energy management features.
Water, together with its logistics partners, Elster EnergyICT, a unit within Elster have implemented appropriate processes Electricity, offers utility-grade energy to ensure compliance with these management software solutions.
These help to reduce their clients energy consumption by up to 30%.
Melrose Industries PLC 56 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review Corporate Social Responsibility continued Global GHG emissions data for period 1 January 31 December 2014 1 tonnes CO e unless stated 2 2 2014 2013 Change Emissions sources: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 18,985 23,237 -18% Electricity, heat and steam purchased for own use 9,380 12,036 -22% 3 Overseas electricity 26,741 29,642 -10% Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes per 1,000 turnover 0.040 0.044 -9% 1 CO e carbon dioxide equivalent, this figure includes greenhouse gases in addition to carbon dioxide.
3 The emissions associated with overseas electricity are presented in tonnes carbon dioxide only as per the DEFRA guidance.
Greenhouse gas emissions All material emissions from within the 10.
Energy Savings organisational and operational scope and Opportunity Scheme This greenhouse gas GHG report has boundaries of the Group are reported.
been prepared for the reporting period The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme The emissions from owned vehicle of 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014.
ESOS Regulations 2014, which transport i. e. Group owned cars and transpose Article 8 of EU Directive The data has been prepared in vans, lorries and fork lift trucks and the 2012 27 EU on energy efficiency and accordance with the principles and emissions associated with refrigeration came into force on 17 July 2014, are requirements of the Greenhouse Gas have been excluded from the report on intended to help deliver part of the EUs Protocol, Revised Edition, ISO 14064 a fide minimis basis.
The GHG emissions 20% improvement in energy efficiency.
Part 1 and DEFRA Department for from these sources have been estimated The ESOS Regulations require qualifying Environment, Food & Rural Affairs to account for less than 1% of the total organisations to measure energy guidance on how to measure and report Melrose emissions reported on an consumption, evaluate energy efficiency, on greenhouse gas emissions 2013. individual basis and as a combined total identify management opportunities, store to account for less than 2% of the total We have reported on all of the emission data and notify the Environment Agency Melrose GHG emissions reported.
sources required under the Companies by 5 December 2015 that an ESOS Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors The financial reporting year of 2013 compliance audit has been completed.
Reports Regulations 43 see Companies was the first year in which the Company Melrose is working with environmental Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors had been required to disclose its GHG and energy efficiency specialists, CMR Reports Regulations 2013 paragraph 18. emissions data within the Annual Report Consultants, to ensure that the Group and represents the baseline against which These sources fall within our consolidated meets its ESOS compliance obligations.
the subsequent emission data sets will statement.
We do not have responsibility be based.
The main change in the data for any emission sources that are not compared to the baseline data, as included in our consolidated statement.
presented in the table above, is due to We have used the GHG Protocol the divestment of the Bridon business Corporate Accounting and Reporting unit in 2014: the Bridon group represented Standard revised edition, data gathered approximately 45% of the total GHG in accordance with our GHG reporting emissions reported in 2013.
Other, smaller procedure and emission factors from changes have resulted from the closure UK Governments GHG Conversion and relocation of activities from some Factors for Company Reporting 2014. sites and general efficiency savings and The reported emissions cover all entities improvements at a number of other sites.
over which the organisation had financial Given that the Melrose business model control for a period of at least one year as of is to acquire and divest businesses over 31 December 2014.
Emissions from entities a 3-5 year timeframe, there may be acquired or disposed of during the reporting significant year on year changes in the period i. e. disposed of before 31 December reported emissions data which may not 2014 or acquired after 1 January 2014 are reflect the underlying GHG performance not accounted for in the report.
Therefore, of the Groups businesses.
the data from the Bridon business unit has not been included within the reported GHG data, as this business was divested during 2014.
One business was acquired during the reporting period, Eclipse, and the emissions from this business unit will be included in the 2015 report.
Performance Review Melrose Industries PLC 57 Annual Report 2014 Performance Review 11.
Human rights and ethical The Strategic Report and standards Owing to the geographical and operational Performance Review, as set diversity of the Groups businesses, and As is stated within the employee policies out on pages 02 to 57, have therefore its supplier base, there is no single and supply chain assurance sections over-arching Group policy currently in use been approved by the Board.
above, the decentralised nature of the in relation to suppliers.
However, the security, Group means there is no single overassurance and ethical compliance of arching policy currently in place with On behalf of the Board business supply chains is very important regard to human rights.
Responsibility for the business ethics and integrity are core to implementation and management of all the Groups values and each business supplier-related policies rests with local places a high importance on its dealings management in each business.
Such with all employees, customers, suppliers policies are used in a manner appropriate and other stakeholders and is committed to the size and complexity of each business to good practice in respect of human and also take into account the nature and rights.
Employees within each Group geographical representation of key suppliers.
business are required, at all times, to Simon Peckham A supplier approval process exists within the exhibit the highest Ievels of integrity and Chief Executive businesses, which is linked to specific and to maintain the highest ethical standards 4March 2015 tailored supplier assessments and due in business affairs.
Each of the Groups businesses will have their own code of ethics dealing with matters such as human rights.
All employee policies are also prepared locally within each business in order to ensure compliance with local laws and standards as a minimum.
Responsibility for the communication and implementation of such policies rests with the relevant senior divisional managers.
The Brush Group has been involved in high class engineering and manufacturing for more than 125 years.
Melrose Industries PLC 58 Annual Report 2014 Governance Strategic Report Performance Review Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 59 Annual Report 2014 Governance Governance Governance overview 60 Board of Directors 62 Directors report 64 Corporate Governance report 68 Audit Committee report 72 Nomination Committee report 76 Directors remuneration report 78 Statement of Directors responsibilities 96
