Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Non-executive director Re-appointment date Expiration date The treatment of leavers under our long-term incentive plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
The committee will David Maloney 14 April 2014 25 September 2014 determine when and if awards vest and the period during which Tom Skelton 23 October 2013 23 October 2014 awards may be exercised.
Karen Slatford 5 July 2013 5 July 2016 Tom Virden 5 January 2012 5 January 2015 Share options lapse if the participant leaves employment in Richard Atkins 16 April 2014 16 April 2017 case of termination for cause or resignation.
In other cases, normally including death and ill health, injury or disability, redundancy and All appointments of non-executive directors are subject to election by retirement, or any other reason at the committees discretion, awards the shareholders at the first AGM of the Company after appointment would typically vest on the normal vesting date with committee and, on an annual basis thereafter.
Except for David Maloney who discretion to accelerate and be pro-rated for time and performance.
having served for nine years will not be standing for re-election at the The committee has the discretion to allow the award to vest on forthcoming AGM, all the directors will be offering themselves for cessation of employment on a pro-rata basis or otherwise if, in the election or re-election at the AGM to be held on 25 September 2014. committees view, the performance conditions are met at that point.
The committee may vest the award on any other basis if it believes Shareholding guidelines there are exceptional circumstances which warrant that.
We believe executive directors and other senior managers should be encouraged to hold a substantial portion of their personal wealth in Change of control shares of the Company.
Over a period of three years from appointment, The rules of the LTIP provide that, in the event of a change of control, executive directors are required to build a holding in the Groups shares awards options would vest to the extent that the performance to a minimum value broadly equivalent to two times their respective conditions where applicable are satisfied at the date of such event.
base salary for the Executive Chairman: 1.5 times for other executive Any such early vesting would generally be on a time pro-rata basis.
The directors and one times for other senior management.
Failure to meet committee may vary the level of vesting, if it believes that exceptional the minimum shareholding requirement is taken into account when circumstances warrant this, taking into account any other factors it determining eligibility for LTIP awards.
believes to be relevant in deciding to what extent an award will vest.
Non-executive directors do not have a shareholding requirement.
The directors may exchange their awards over Company shares for awards in shares of the acquiring company if the terms of the offer Consultation with employees allow this.
Although the committee does not consult directly with employees on the Directors Remuneration Policy, the committee does consider Awards held under all-employee plans would be expected to vest on a the general basic salary increase, the benchmarking of employee change of control and those which have to meet specific requirements compensation and benefits, remuneration arrangements and to benefit from permitted tax benefits would vest in accordance with employment conditions for the broader employee population those requirements.
when determining remuneration policy for the executive directors.
Policy in respect of external board appointments Consideration of shareholder views We recognize that external non-executive directorships are beneficial The committee also considers developments in institutional investors for both the executive director concerned and the Company.
With best practice expectations and the views expressed by shareholders prior approval from the board, each serving executive director can when setting directors remuneration.
We remain committed to undertake external non-executive directorships.
At the discretion of shareholder dialogue and take an active interest in voting outcomes.
the board, executive directors are permitted to retain fees received We consult extensively with our major shareholders when setting our in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
If any of these shareholders express concerns relating to our policy, we would endeavour to meet with them, as Non-executive directors terms of appointment appropriate, to understand and respond to any issues they may have.
The non-executive directors terms of appointment are recorded in letters of appointment.
The required notice from the Company is three months in all cases.
The non-executive directors are not entitled to any compensation for loss of office and stand for re-election at each AGM.
Details of the letters of appointment of each non-executive director who has served as a director of the Company at any time during the financial year are set out below: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
