Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Micro Focus is fully committed to complying with relevant corporate In October 2013, Micro Focus was awarded a Bronze Award by Nick social responsibility CSR legislation across its global operations Hurd MP, the Minister for Civil Society, to recognize the Companys and strives to achieve standards over and above required levels.
decision to foster a culture of philanthropy and committed giving in the workplace, by making Payroll Giving available to employees.
CSR activities are monitored and planned in four key areas: the The certificate acknowledges Micro Focus success in generating environment, charity and community support, the marketplace and sustainable income sources for UK charities through Payroll Giving.
suppliers and employees and ethics.
The Corporate Responsibility Policy can be found on the Micro Focus website www.
For a two year period up to 31 March 2014, Micro Focus held the com about responsibility.
Carbon Trust Standard certification, and as part of an on-going commitment to the Carbon Trust, the Company is currently renewing its certification.
Micro Focus products can help customers to reduce their IT carbon footprint and these benefits The table right outlines the CSR progress that Micro Focus has made feature in conversations with existing customers, in the year ended 30 April 2014 across the four focus areas, with prospects, partners and suppliers.
Employees additional focus this year on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG reporting requirements: regularly participate in CSR initiatives and internal communications regularly feature CSR topics.
During the year ended 30 April 2014 the CSR committee met four times to agree priorities and progress activities, and the CSR programme was reviewed at two board meetings during the year.
Karen Slatford, a non-executive director, is responsible at board level for CSR and also participates in CSR committee meetings.
Micro Focus continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index, the responsible investment index calculated by global index provider FTSE Group.
20 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
