Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes CSR Progress in the year ended 30 April 2014 Environment Micro Focus products and services can help customers to reduce Further improvements across all locations either by moving to more their carbon footprint and adopt carbon friendly IT strategies by modern and efficient office environments or by improving the assets enabling greater efficiency and longer life from existing technology already deployed.
Part of Micro Focus decision making process and equipment.
In addition to offering organizations alternative when sourcing locations is to identify LEED ratings wherever possible.
strategies to rip and replace IT policies, Micro Focus continues In recent years four premises moves have been from buildings with to develop its own policies to record, monitor and achieve no LEED rating to sites with Silver, Gold and Platinum ratings: improvements in its own carbon footprint: Continued landlord performance monitoring in all locations Continued progress towards reducing environmental emissions, where Micro Focus operations are sited in leasehold premises: renewing the Carbon Trust Standard certification for a second consecutive period: Re-deployed and consolidated data-centre power optimization thereby improving efficiencies and reducing cost and consumption: M icro Focus in the UK already holds the Carbon Trust Standard for Energy: and In the UK headquarters various environmental project investments E stablishing processes to enable submission for Certification of have delivered further energy efficiencies such as a voltage Waste and Water, where eligible to join the scheme.
Currently, optimizer, new lighting and the replacement of old boilers with consumption of water levels is below the threshold for modern, more energy efficient heating systems.
Additional reporting, but consumption monitoring will be put in place as initiatives are being evaluated to further reduce emissions: and part of an environmental dashboard for internal reporting.
The Carbon Trust externally verifies Micro Focus data within its Having achieved an annual increase in office waste recycling certification assessment processes: capabilities by almost 20% in the prior year, the roll out of recycling has continued across the organisation and processes are being Fifth year of commitment to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, adapted to monitor, measure and report these results in the future.
further promoting and managing emission reductions across our globally located facilities: Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG This section includes Micro Focus mandatory reporting of GHG S cope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reported to CDP: pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and S cores have improved year on year since joining in 2009.
Directors Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
In this reporting period Micro Focus will be reporting a 7% absolute reduction in year on year consumption: and Reporting year I n this years submission, Micro Focus response will be The GHG reporting year is the same as Micro Focus fiscal year extended to include Forestry, Supply Chain and Water: being 1 May 2013 to 30 April 2014 to align with financial reporting and the relevant CDP reporting timeframe.
Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme Micro Focus falls below the minimum threshold for entry into Organization boundary and responsibility the scheme so there is no requirement to submit data.
Despite In accordance with the definitional requirements of the this, the Company is committed to continue disclosing its carbon Regulations, in respect of emissions for which Micro Focus data via CDP externally published reports: is responsible, emissions data is reported using an Operational Control approach to define the Organizational Boundary: and On-going commitment to promote electronic product distribution, with approximately 95% of all electronic and approximately 5% All material emission sources which Micro Focus deems to have physical distribution of products: operational control over are in scope.
These sources are defined as the purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling for the Continued programme of positive global procurement in sourcing, operation of facilities and the combustion of fuel for the operation replacing and refurbishing facility energy systems in accordance of facilities.
Processes are being established to track other sources with energy efficiency standards EN656 : of emissions such as commercial flights for business travel, which is not presently covered in this data.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Environment CO tonnes produced actual The following locations are out of scope due to size or lack of 2 availability of information: I smaning Germany, Haifa Israel, Dublin Ireland, Madrid Spain, Sofia Bulgaria, Atlanta US, Santa Clara US, Chicago Linz 100.2 TCO 15% 2 US, Austin US, Tokyo Japan, Melbourne Australia, Troy US, Rockville 53.1 TCO 8% 2 New Delhi India, Mumbai India, Hong Kong China, Shanghai Singapore 45.0 TCO 7% 2 China, Beijing China, Seoul Korea, Paris France, Schiphol Sydney 19.9 TCO 3% 2 Netherlands, Brussels Belgium, Oslo Norway, Rome Italy, Newbury, The Lawn 316.1 TCO 48% 2 Newbury, River Park 73.0 TCO 11% Milan Italy and Sao Paulo Brazil.
2 Belfast 53.3 TCO 8% 2 Intensity ratio To achieve a global picture of emissions, whilst recognizing that not all of our locations can be in scope, an intensity ratio of CO per tonne per head has been used.
As not all entities are 2 Methodology revenue generating and not all can calculate emissions, this The methodology used to calculate emissions is based on the ratio should demonstrate a more comprehensive assessment.
most current set of regulations published by the Department for Environment and Rural Affairs DEFRA dated June 2013.
CO tonnes by region 2 Wherever possible, the energy Companies most current Energy Fuel Mix numbers have been utilised and DEFRAs conversion factors have been inserted to calculate total GHG emissions: and Linz 100.2 TCO 7% 2 Rockville 53.1 TCO 4% 2 Where the timing of the receipt of energy suppliers periodic Singapore 45.0 TCO 3% 2 invoices do not match the Micro Focus reporting period, the most Sydney 19.9 TCO 2% 2 recent figures available have been extrapolated to ensure a full Newbury, The Lawn 316.1 TCO 23% 2 set of data has been allocated to the entire reporting period.
Newbury, River Park 73.0 TCO 5% 2 Belfast 53.3 TCO 4% 2 ROW @ UK average 421.2 TCO 30% Scope of reporting emissions 2 US @ UK average excluding Rockville Micro Focus reports emissions data on all locations where 304.4 TCO 22% 2 available, irrespective of the size of the Micro Focus facility.
For smaller locations where no such data is available from managed serviced offices, or where Micro Focus is part of a multi-tenant occupancy building, or where staffing levels are 2015 targets less than ten, the mean average per head is extrapolated out During the year ended 30 April 2014, Micro Focus has made from all other locations.
Locations where this approach has three acquisitions and managed a significant level of organizational been taken are: development.
This has generated physical changes within the Groups property portfolio, with many locations moving, N ewbury UK, Belfast Northern Ireland, Sydney Australia, restructuring, or increasing in size and this activity is continuing Singapore, Linz Austria, Sao Paulo Brazil, Rockville US into the 2015 financial year.
The expectation is for a year on year and River Park UK : increase in overall emissions for the year ended 30 April 2015.
A target of below 1% increase is expected in absolute terms, however, a year on year improvement in the intensity ratio is expected, given the environmental initiatives adopted worldwide.
Given the level of organizational activity in the year ended 30 April 2014, Micro Focus expected a 1% reduction in overall emissions.
A year on year reduction in absolute consumption was achieved.
In terms of an intensity ratio, improvement is also expected given the environmental initiatives adopted worldwide and Micro Focus is working towards a target of 1% reduction in the next reporting period.
22 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
