34 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility The Group takes pride in creating a great customer experience whilst operating sustainably.
We aim to meet the needs of our guests whilst maintaining high standards in every aspect of our business, from human rights to environmental and social sustainability.
To demonstrate our commitment to corporate social responsibility, the Board has adopted a number of policies, collectively referred to as Responsible Hospitality, which are designed to recognise the Groups wider impact on the communities in which we operate.
The Board recognises the need to review these policies regularly and to communicate to stakeholders on progress made.
The average number of employees employed a reduction in energy consumption over a Our people by the Group including Directors during the 12 month period.
The programme focused As part of our strategic emphasis on year analysed by category was as follows: on raising awareness and implementation operational and organisational efficiency, of simple energy saving measures which the Board recognises that the Groups 2014 2013 contributed towards a 5.6% reduction in growth and future success depends on the Number Number electricity consumption and a 4.6% reduction effectiveness of employees in all areas of Hotel operating staff 7,954 8,009 in gas consumption when compared to a the business, from the Board and senior Management business-as-usual scenario.
It therefore administration 1,253 1,306 places great emphasis on promoting the Our UK business was also successful development of Group human resources Sales and marketing 464 438 policies that will: in retaining the Carbon Trust Standard in Repairs and maintenance 586 600 recognition of its achievements in carbon 10,257 10,353 reduction and further demonstrates its attract and retain talented individuals: commitment to making future reductions.
A healthy workplace facilitate satisfying and rewarding Promoting good health, safety and career paths, with effective leadership Other energy saving initiatives adopted security for our customers, colleagues and development and coherent succession across the estate include the installation subcontractors is paramount and effective planning: and of more energy efficient equipment and measures are in place at our properties to lighting, changes to operating procedures build a strong performance culture support this aim.
and maintenance programmes and through clear objective-setting at all continuous staff engagement in energy levels.
Our health, safety and security functions saving habits.
ensure compliance with statutory As a global business with a global customer requirements through continuous base, the Group sees strong competitive When we started measuring our carbon development of relevant policies and advantage in creating a diverse and inclusive footprint in 2010 we established that the vast procedures across the Group.
working environment, with truly global majority of our direct emissions come from perspectives.
three sources: electricity usage, distribution We aim to ensure that our staff are trained fuels and refrigerant gases.
in fire emergency procedures, high level We engage with employees through a range security threat scenarios and emergency of ways that aim to keep them updated with Details of our total carbon footprint are evacuations, which assist in creating a safe the entire business.
This helps to promote summarised below.
The base year was set as working environment for both guests and team building, as well as the ability of staff to 2010 being the first year the Group reported employees.
anticipate and deliver customer needs.
This year our carbon footprint was 349,442 tonnes.
Reports covering health and safety matters All staff are encouraged to gain industryare presented quarterly to the Board.
These relevant qualifications where appropriate, both Global tonnes of CO e include statistics on accidents, incidents 2 to strengthen the business through a welland progress in fulfilling targets linked to trained and engaged workforce and to support 2010 continuous improvement and in promoting 2014 2013 Base year personal career development.
During 2014, wider awareness of related issues.
we continued to build on our Outstanding 1 Scope 1 59,200 58,386 73,309 Service Excellence programme, which 2 Caring for the environment Scope 2 262,918 246,753 235,916 promotes the Groups aim to delight its Climate change has a major impact on Carbon guests and customers, wherever and the travel and hospitality industry.
We intensity whenever they are served by us.
want to grow responsibly which means tonnes of CO e 2 rooms.
Includes proportionately reducing our energy, carbon scope one, For the year to 31 December 2014, the and resource impacts.
We are committed two and three Group employed an average of 10,257people to doing this by seeking new ways to emissions but not worldwide in over 20 countries 2013: 10,353 travel 12.38 12.28 13.32 reduce and manage emissions across our 3 hotel estate and through identifying and Scope 3 27,323 26,677 19,214 Employees by gender Male Female implementing sustainable and responsible No.
of rooms 27,925 26,706 24,658 cost efficient measures.
Directors 8 1 Total gross 4 4 Senior managers 174 69 emissions 349,442 331,817 328,439 This year, 16 of our UK hotels participated in Other employees 5,970 4,035 an Energy Excellence programme to deliver Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 35 Notes: reducing carbon emissions, benefits will health and wellbeing, the environment, the 1 Direct emissions from activities owned or controlled by include longer bulb life and rebates from elderly and infirm, and education.
Below our organisation that release emissions into the atmosphere.
electricity suppliers in the US.
are some examples of community activities 2 Indirect emissions that are a consequence of our around the Group in 2014. organisations activities but which occur at sources we do In 2014, our US properties have worked not own or control.
3 Other indirect emissions that are a consequence of our with a national food distributor to reduce the Our Copthorne Hotel Auckland Harbour City actions which occur at sources which we do not own or number of deliveries each week from 5 to 3 employees continued their commitment control and which are not classed as scope 2 emissions.
This reduction in deliveries to the Motutapu Restoration Trust, a 4 Includes business travel.
will result in fewer trucks on the road, conservation organisation of Motutapu To calculate our emissions, we have used the thus reducing overall emissions.
M&C are Island, to save endangered kiwis, New Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate partnering with companies such as Spring Zealands iconic flightless bird.
Volunteers Accounting and Reporting Standard Back USA to implement a mattress recycling spent many hours enhancing the island methodology and the operational control program to eliminate used mattresses going sanctuary by restoring natural habitats, consolidation approach to determine what to landfill.
The 2015 goal will be to recycle eradicating pests and ensuring the kiwis are properties are included.
given every chance to breed, self-sustain and investment hotels that are managed by third thrive on the island.
party operators have not been included Our New Zealand hotels are proud in the data collation.
to participate in the Qualmark New Millennium Resort Mussanah employees Zealand Tourism official quality Assurance donated their time by volunteering to clean Absolute emissions for the year have Organisation Green process where the up the Mussanah Beach and marina areas increased due to the opening of a number of hotels undertake initiatives to mitigate adjacent to the resort.
Armed with shovels, new hotels.
However, if newly opened hotels energy, water and waste usage, contribute rakes and garbage bags, the group of were to be excluded, overall group emissions to community conservation activities volunteers removed 800 kilograms of litter would show a decrease compared to 2013. and monitor resources used.
Five hotels as well as household items to ensure visitors Relative emissions i. e. emissions per room have achieved the Envirogold standard and local people can enjoy the unspoiled or per unit floor area have decreased since where they exceed the highest level of beaches once again.
Emissions per unit floor area have environmental and social responsibilities and decreased by 21% and emissions per room represent strong leadership and advocacy.
Three million baht 56,000 was raised have decreased by 7%.
by staff at Grand Millennium Sukhumvit We introduced a segregation of waste Bangkok at its Black Mountain Charity Relative: Carbon Emissions by Source programme to the London hotels starting Golf & Gourmet Dinner.
All proceeds will 170 13.6 at the Millennium Gloucester Hotel and go towards the Bangkok Post Foundation 164 162 13.4 160 Millennium Baileys Hotel in September 2014. to support education for underprivileged 13.2 148 The first phase will allow 430 tonnes of waste students from primary to university 150 13.0 143 12.8 to be composted and a further 450 tonnes levels in 32 provinces across Thailand.
140 12.6 129 to be converted into electricity - with the aim 130 12.4 of zero waste being transferred to landfill.
12.2 The Millennium Alaskan Hotel Anchorage 120 12.0 hosted a winter clothing drive for Covenant 110 11.8 Our focus includes using suppliers with a House, a youth homeless shelter.
Staff 100 11.6 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 demonstrable commitment to sustainable speak weekly at Covenant Houses job skills Year m2 floor area Room production methods.
For example, our main training class.
This year the hotel hired eight fresh produce supplier in the UK is fully interns from the homeless youth community compliant with the London Low Emission that have since turned into full-time jobs.
We recognise that our efforts to reduce our Zone Scheme and is also testing electric Every month the female managers make environmental impact need to go wider than vehicles that are completely emissions free.
dinner or arrange an evening activity for our carbon footprint.
They also need to cover Our main UK fish and seafood supplier aims Passage House, the single mothers home other resources we rely on, ensuring we to reduce fleet emissions by 10% by 2016 division of Covenant House.
When the use them as efficiently as possible.
Beyond and have processes in place to reduce food Passage House had to close down due to the clear environmental benefits, the better miles and energy consumption on their necessary repairs, the hotel opened its doors management of resources will increase our vehicles through local sourcing methods and to the staff, young women and children resilience to risk, help secure the supply of energy saving initiatives.
for the length of time they were displaced.
our products and even provide opportunities to save money.
Staff at Copthorne Hotel Sheffield have Supporting our community again partnered with Aviva to provide food As owners and operators of hotels, we We are committed to seeing that all our hotel and beverage donations for their staff can make a big difference to the future of operations are run in an environmentally sound manning the phones during the Save the the communities in which our hotels are manner and that existing operations continue Children telethons.
The hotel is also actively based, by providing employment directly and to reduce their environmental impacts.
We partnering with Sheffield United Community indirectly, as well as supporting educational look to ensure that all employees understand Foundation throughout this season with their programmes and other initiatives.
they can make a significant contribution to the student education days and school education Group being an environmentally friendly and outreach programme.
We encourage our hotels to be involved green aware company.
in their local communities and community In 2015, we will examine ways in which projects.
Our people devote their time and Reducing our waste similar initiatives can be rolled out across hotels provide facilities and resources.
During In the US, Europe and Asia our hotels are the hotel estate.
the year, our people across the globe have converting incandescent light bulbs to LED been involved in a wide range of events and and compact fluorescent bulbs.
As well as activities for charities supporting children, Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 kgCO2e m2 tCO2e Room
