Corporate social responsibility 750 The number of new jobs we have created 60k We raised over 60,000 in support of the Princes Trust Million Makers initiative 90 Tonnes of salt removed from our menus 2,914 Food waste recycling has generated enough electricity to power 2,914 UK households 1,000 We are creating 1,000 apprenticeships over the next two years 26 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 Our guests trust us to serve good food that represents good value for money, which is safely prepared and cooked.
We continue to build our reputation as In All Bar One, Ember Inns and a number of our We are continuing our ongoing trials of a a socially responsible retailer through Heartland pubs, meals that contain 700 calories mineral salt blend, which contains less sodium focusing on four key areas which most or less are highlighted on the main menus.
In than standard salt and therefore could help impact our business practices: Harvester, we print calorific values on all our reduce the amount of salt our guests consume.
menus including the Young Guests menu.
In the trial businesses the mineral salt is being Our guests used in the kitchen during the cooking process Our people Chefs in any of our businesses will happily and also replaces standard table salt.
Our communities respond to a guests request to swap to a The environment healthier option, for example, a side salad Trans fats in place of potatoes, and wherever possible, We do not use hydrogenated vegetable fats More information can be found in our Social serve dressings and sauces separately.
in our food: this policy has been in place since Responsibility Review 2014 which can be January 2013.
The level of trans fats in our found at www.
com responsibility The development of our Young Guest menus frying oils is limited to a maximum of 2% but continues to be a focus for the business, and typically the level is less than 1% trans fatty acids Good food our Company Nutritionist has joined the in fresh cooking oil.
This year, we implemented Our guests trust us to serve good food that Scottish Government Working Group on a policy of best practice oil management, which represents good value for money, which is developing guidance for caterers on healthy includes clear processes to heat the oil to the safely prepared and cooked.
They also trust options for childrens menus.
correct temperature, change the oil regularly us to source food that is both sustainable and and to not turn the fryers on until in use ethical, with due regard for high standards Allergens minimising any increase in trans fats caused of both workers and animal welfare.
We are compliant with the new EU legislation, by heating and reheating the oil.
which will come into effect in December 2014, Whats in our food?
concerning the availability of information Food sourcing Nutrition about 14 common food allergens.
We work closely with a network of trusted We continue to look for the most effective suppliers to source the best quality ingredients way to present nutritional information to our Salt for our menus.
When buying our food we guests across our portfolio of brands.
By using We pledged to deliver a number of initiatives ensure our high food safety standards are met, our guest insight to understand better our to help and support our guests to consume we are sourcing quality products, and we are guests preferences and priorities, we can less salt as part of our commitment to the taking into account provenance and price.
develop our nutritional messaging to ensure Public Health Responsibility Deal.
We believe our focus All our food suppliers are required to comply should be on communicating ingredients, In the last 12 months, we have continued with the British Retail Consortiums technical healthy cooking techniques, the freshness to work with our suppliers to reduce the salt standard which requires their staff to be of our food and providing healthier options content of the products we use.
We reduced the properly trained and supervised and for the to enable our guests to make an informed salt content of over 25 products that contributed supplier to meet high standards of food safety.
choice when eating with us.
the most salt to our supply chain, in line with Responsibility Deal Salt Pledge targets and as We are proactively working with our suppliers Harvester, Toby Carvery and Crown Carveries a result during FY 2014 we removed over 90 to improve the quality and range of products publish nutritional information online for their tonnes of salt from our menus, based on annual available within the Mitchells & Butlers core menu items.
This includes over 63 tonnes removed supply chain.
from our popular beef and onion gravy served in Toby and Crown Carveries.
We delivered this salt reduction initiative without compromising on food safety, taste or quality, through working closely with our suppliers and providing sensory training to our development chefs.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Corporate social responsibility continued We have completed the first year of working We won two awards at the British Turkey with a group of farmers located in the National Awards 2014 Food Service Operator of the Parks to rear lamb.
We are featuring selected Year and Best Food Service.
These awards cuts on our Browns and Castle pubs menus, demonstrate the hard work, commitment and offering our guests British lamb that is fully support that Mitchells & Butlers and Toby traceable and of excellent quality.
Carvery have given to British farming, and in particular the British turkey industry.
We are part of an integrated supply chain team that includes Morrisons and McDonalds, Food safety to take beef steaks from black and white bull We have made a commitment to increase calves produced from dairy herds, which the number of our businesses that achieve a would otherwise be destroyed on farms.
4 or 5 star food hygiene rating.
We take a zero These animals are reared to strict protocols tolerance approach to any of our businesses and we work with a rearing company and that achieve a score of 3 or below.
We continue processor to utilise the steak meat produced.
to strive for a score of 5 in each business and conduct independently commissioned audits We continue to strengthen our relationships in all of our businesses at least twice per year.
with UK growers, working direct where We have rigorous checks and policies in place possible to remove the wholesalers margin to ensure we do things right and we consult and delivering fresher seasonal products regularly with Government and local authorities to our kitchens.
For example, we use British to ensure we maintain the highest standards strawberries when in season and all our in food safety.
We are currently investing fresh potatoes in Toby and Crown Carveries significantly in upgrading our safety training are British.
We have also begun a trial to grow including Food Safety, Fire Safety and Health our own potato crop through a direct supply and Safety training.
In addition we have contract at Brechin in Scotland.
increased the internal supportive resource available to our operations teams.
Our Cattle Scheme continues to develop and we are now working with 21 farmers, rearing Serving alcohol responsibly around 1,400 calves under our direct contract As a responsible operator we are determined agreements.
The first animals will be ready in to build, promote and maintain a culture of Spring 2015, giving us a supply of around 20 responsible retailing across the Company.
animals every week, all fully traceable from farm to fork.
Our Alcohol and Social Responsibility policy promotes good practice in the responsible This scheme has enabled us to work with a retailing of alcohol through our employee high calibre of experienced farmers to ensure training, safe operational practices and we are rearing livestock to excellent standards.
This includes Paul and Charlotte Parfitt, who have won a National Trust Fine Farm Produce Challenge 21 is a fundamental part of our Award 2014 for their beef production.
employee training programme and includes regular refresher training to help ensure We take responsible sourcing extremely that our retail teams are fully aware of their seriously and recognise concerns about the licensing responsibilities and not serving sustainable sourcing of fish.
We are committed alcohol to anyone underage.
to working with our supplier base to ensure well managed and sustainable fishing practices are We do not operate any 24 hour licences.
For example, we source line caught cod for our menus in a number of our brands.
As part of our commitment to promote a responsible approach to retailing alcohol, we We have an annual spend cost value of over support and work in partnership with a number 19m on beef and poultry products that are of organisations including Drinkaware Trust, covered by Red Tractor accreditation, the UKs Pubwatch, Best Bar None, the BIIAB, London largest food assurance scheme.
These products Security Council and Association of Licensed are endorsed on our menus using the Red and Multiple Retailers ALMR.
For example, we use British chicken in Harvester, all our beef in Toby We encourage our brands to promote Carvery and Harvester is of British and Irish responsible drinking messages, where origin, and we use 100% British beef in Miller appropriate, to our guests through our & Carter.
websites, social media pages and in-house promotional materials.
28 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 Listening to our people Every year we circulate our employee engagement survey, Your Say to understand better what is important to our employees.
In July 2014, 72% 27,869 of our people responded to the survey.
We were delighted that engagement levels for our retail employee and General Manager groups beat benchmark results and that our central retail support team engagement scores continue to trend upwards year-on-year.
Diversity Mitchells & Butlers is committed to providing equal opportunities for all of our employees.
Our Diversity Policy ensures that every employee, without exception, is treated equally and fairly and that all employees are aware of their responsibilities.
The policy confirms that there will be no direct or indirect discrimination in respect of age, disability, religious belief, gender, sexual Working with us Through pickaperk, our people can also orientation, race, colour, marital status, political With over 100 years experience in the apply for our salary sacrifice schemes, belief and nationality, or any other category hospitality industry, we can offer our employees childcare vouchers and cycle to work scheme.
defined by law in all aspects of employment and future employees a huge range of career In addition, our people have access to a wide including recruitment, promotion, and opportunities.
Through our people strategy range of company benefits, such as Sharesave, opportunities for training, pay and benefits.
we are striving to attract, develop and retain Free Shares, pension for eligible entitled the best talent.
Everything we do as a business workers and dental plans.
The table below provides a breakdown of the is built on the enthusiasm and professionalism gender of Directors and employees at the end of our people.
of the financial year: Men Women Attracting the best talent Company Directors 8 1 Last year we created c750 new jobs by Other senior managers 46 19 opening new retail sites across the UK.
All employees 21,018 21,927 We launched our Recognising You scheme Nurturing and developing our people where line managers across Mitchells & Butlers Our communities A new induction has been launched to give can officially recognise our people when they By supporting our people and businesses new team members the best start possible achieve key milestones from one year to across a spectrum of charitable activities when joining the Company.
45 years, personalised Thank You cards and fundraising, we continue to build strong to recognise hundreds of employees who relationships with our guests and neighbours, We have expanded our Accredited Coach demonstrate living our values and also award and give back to the communities in which and Coaching Ambassador network and pre-loaded gift cards.
given every General Manager, every functional manager and many Assistant This year our Dine with us employee The Good Cause Fund Managers and Kitchen Managers the discount scheme launched onto a digital This fund provides help for our pubs and opportunity to learn Coaching Foundations.
platform, improving access for our people restaurants to boost their local fundraising.
to enjoy a 20% discount when dining in one Last financial year we donated over 9,500 We currently have over 1,500 learners on of our restaurants or pubs.
to a number of deserving charities and groups.
a vocational or apprenticeship programme for which we achieved a highly commended Retaining top talent Employee donations programme award at the National Apprenticeship Awards Retail team member turnover is at a This fund provides donations for individual this year.
We have pledged to take on a further historical low.
Mitchells & Butlers employees and retired 1,000 over the next two years.
Additionally, employees to support a personal charity we are working in partnership with Believe Mitchells & Butlers achieved Top 100 event or challenge of their choice.
In FY 2014 in Young People, offering over 200 work Graduate Employer status in 2014 for we made donations of around 19,500 to a experience places for 14-18 year olds who the second year running.
large number of local and national causes wish to explore a career in hospitality, with including Macmillan Cancer Support, a natural lead into our apprenticeship scheme.
We achieved a highly commended Parkinsons UK and Action for Children.
accreditation at the West Midlands National Rewarding and recognising our people Apprenticeship Awards, for the quality of our More and more of our people are taking vocational programme and our commitment advantage of our benefits platform pickaperk, to developing our people through nationally which offers exclusive discounts with an recognised Apprenticeship qualifications.
extensive range of retailers through instant vouchers, cashback or reloadable cards.
Since its launch in February 2013, our people have purchased discounted goods to the value of 1.3m.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Corporate social responsibility continued Supporting The Princes Trust Environmental awareness Kitchen extraction automated controls In our final year of support for The Princes Trust Our aim is to manage our energy, waste and Automated controls have been fitted at we made a Company donation of 15,000.
As water consumption effectively to minimise our compatible businesses to ensure that the part of our support for the youth charity, a team environmental footprint and reduce costs to extract and air supply fans run at the lowest of enthusiastic employees took part in the Princes the business.
speed at all times to minimise energy usage.
Trust Million Makers fundraising initiative, where teams compete to raise as much money Energy and Greenhouse gas emissions Water consumption as possible by setting up mini-enterprises.
The Our proactive management of energy We are working with manufacturers and our Mitchells & Butlers team, Team Pride, raised over consumption, procurement and carbon suppliers to reduce the amount of water we 60,000 in a variety of innovative ways.
Over emissions continues to deliver significant use.
Most recently we have fitted motion 80 teams across the country competed to raise benefits to our business against a backdrop detection controls in urinals, which reduce the most money for The Princes Trust, with of increasing food sales volume.
During the water wastage by managing the number of Mitchells & Butlers ranking fourth in the national last year our electricity, gas and water costs flushes and Hippo bags which reduce the competition, and being named top fundraiser have reduced by 4.2% through a combination volume of water used for each toilet flush.
of behavioural change programmes and investment in making our buildings and Waste management Marie Curie Cancer Care equipment more energy efficient.
This has We continue to drive successfully our waste Once again all our businesses worked together resulted in a 2.2% reduction in our greenhouse disposal strategy, focused on reducing, to support the Marie Curie Great Daffodil gas emissions per m turnover during the reusing and effectively recycling the waste Appeal.
All of our restaurants and pubs sold 2013 14 tax year.
generated by our restaurants and pubs.
daffodil pins during March 2014 and raised We recycle the equivalent of 900 tonnes of a total of 15,743 for the charity.
The money A full disclosure of our greenhouse gas cardboard, 850 tonnes of glass, 100 tonnes raised will help Marie Curie to provide over emissions can be found on page 41. of plastic and 100 tonnes of aluminium every 787 hours of nursing care to patients and month.
The food waste produced in our their families.
Back of house lighting businesses has been used to generate green We have successfully replaced almost 26,000 electricity.
This has helped produce enough Our businesses giving back fluorescent light fittings across the estate with electricity to power 2,914 UK households In June, Crown Carveries offered armed forces new energy-efficient fluorescent fittings.
This with electricity for a month, as well as saving personnel and veterans a free carvery meal or has helped us to make considerable savings over 462,000kg of CO every month.
Our 2 breakfast, for the sixth year running, to mark on energy consumption as well as improving combined recycling initiatives divert over Armed Forces Day.
The brand donated a total lighting levels for our people.
90,000 tonnes from landfill every year.
Heat recovery from cellars We realise that recycling and diverting waste Our restaurants and pubs supported the Royal We have fitted heat recovery units in from landfill are just the first steps towards British Legion Poppy Appeal in November 2013 cellars wherever possible.
This has not minimising and ultimately removing waste selling thousands of poppies to raise funds for only allowed the recovery of heat, but also from our estate.
Therefore we have recently thousands of serving and ex-Service people.
reduced maintenance costs by allowing begun to trial new and innovative technologies other equipment in the cellars to operate to reduce the waste we produce and to As part of a hugely successful St. Patricks in cooler conditions.
actively derive value and revenue from week of events in ONeills, each pub chose a the resources in our waste.
local charity to support and raise funds for.
In Free air cellar cooling addition to this, the ONeills brand teams also Free air cellar cooling units have been fitted helped to do their bit by completing various across the estate.
This system draws in cool air challenges.
In total the 45 pubs, as well as the from outside when ambient air temperatures brand teams, managed to raise over 40,000 drop below 8C and turns off the traditional for good causes.
cellar cooling system, saving energy.
30 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
