Strategic report 34 Sustainability at Mondi: being part of the solution See page 20 for more details We are operating in a world facing global environmental, on our external context social and economic challenges.
Without integrating sustainability into every business decision, we cannot remain a successful, profitable and value-adding business.
We believe that being part of the solution to help address sustainability challenges secures the future prospects of our business and our communities, and provides us with a competitive edge going forward.
Forests, biodiversity and Greenhouse gas emissions Managing safety and health Community engagement fibre supply and climate change We have a goal of zero harm in Maintaining healthy relationships Wood is one of our primary raw Our climate change response the workplace.
The nature of our with local communities is vital to our materials, so it is a business imperative focuses on increasing our energy business involves many high-risk continued success.
We also see that our forestry practices are efficiency and reducing our reliance activities, and we require all our it as our responsibility to make a sustainable from the management of on carbon intensive energy sources.
operations to focus on their top risks real and lasting contribution to the our own forests, to the procurement of We also place emphasis on the developing suitable action plans to communities in which we operate.
We are not party responsible management of forests engineer the risks out or, where this Our operations support local to deforestation or illegal logging.
and associated ecosystems, is not possible, introducing robust communities and livelihoods by acknowledging the role of procedures and controls to manage We maintain FSC certification of creating wealth, employment and sustainable forests in mitigating residual risk.
our forests, and strive to continually business, and through voluntary climate change and storing carbon.
increase the amount of credibly We also tailor occupational health community investments.
Since certified wood we procure.
management to the specific needs 2010, we have contributed of our operations.
Our focus includes around 61million to community We also work with key stakeholders 4.2m reducing ergonomic risks, improving investments and local initiatives.
In such as local NGOs and noise management and subsequent making these investments, we focus governments to identify and protect 1 In 2014 our scope 1 emissions hearing loss, preventing injuries, and on health, education, and enterprise high conservation value areas, amounted to 4.2 million tonnes in South Africa, addressing HIV AIDS.
development, which we believe and set aside some of our land for 2 CO2e 2013: 3.9 million tonnes are core drivers for community conservation purposes.
3 while specific scope 1 emissions development.
were 0.67 tonnes per saleable 0.83 tonne of production 2013: 0.62 100% TRCR of 0.83 per 200,000 hours 61m worked 100% of our owned and leased 0.9m Around 61 million contributed to forests are FSC certified community investments and 4 Scope 2 emissions amounted local initiatives since 2010 47 to 0.9 million tonnes CO2e 2013: 1.1 million tonnes, while Zero 47 employees and 165 specific scope 2 emissions were contractors in our South African Zero deforestation, 0.15 tonnes per saleable tonne of operations are currently on and no illegal logging production 2013: 0.18 anti-retroviral treatment Total specific CO2e emissions We report our GHG emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, published by the 25% from our pulp and paper mills WBCSD and the World Resources Institute, and have reported our scope 1 and 2 GHG data in compliance with ISO 14064:1-2006.
ERM CVS has provided reasonable assurance on our 1.0 25% of owned and leased land scope 1 and 2 GHG data in accordance with ISO 14064:3-2006.
See their full statement on 0.9 0.87 0.87 0.86 5 0.82 page 102 of our online Sustainable development report: www.
com sd14 0.81 set aside for conservation 0.8 1 Scope 1 emissions: Total GHG emissions from sources owned or controlled by Mondi and 0.7 its subsidiaries of the Group boundaries.
This includes CO2e from fossil fuels and processes, 0.6 Group leased owned vehicles, waste and wastewater treatment, from make-up chemicals, 0.5 and from other GHG gases.
0.4 2 GHGs are often compared on the basis of their estimated potential to cause global warming.
0.3 Factors can be used to convert a quantity of non-CO2 GHG such as CH4 or N2O into an 0.2 amount of CO2 with an equivalent warming potential.
Of importance in the pulp and paper 0.1 industry, CH4 and N2O emissions are considered.
Every gram of CH4 is equivalent to 21 0.0 grams of CO2 and each N2O gram is equivalent to 310 grams of CO2.
Total GHG emissions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 can be calculated as the sum of several GHGs expressed as the equivalent amount of CO2, abbreviated as CO2e.
tonnes per tonne of 3 Specific: calculated in tonnes of CO2e per tonne of saleable production.
saleable production 4 Scope 2 emissions: Total GHG emissions from sources that are related to generation of purchased energy outside the Group boundaries no other GHG considered but CO2.
Specific Scope 1 Specific Scope 2 Total specific CO2e 5 Energy sales increased by 16%, causing an increase in CO2e emissions from 2013.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Strategic report 35 We do not achieve this in isolation.
We work with our stakeholders for joint solutions across the value chain and on landscape level, and use global thinking in addressing impacts locally.
Sustainability is therefore fully integrated into our business, as is reflected throughout this report.
The summary below gives a high level overview of our approach to sustainable development across key areas, with pages 36 and 37 providing more detail on the progress we have made against our public commitments on material issues.
Please also see our online Sustainable development report 2014 at www.
com sd14 for more in-depth discussions.
Diversity and equal opportunity Operational excellence Developing our people through resource efficiency The Fundamental Rights Convention of the International Labour Organization People development is an and clean production ILO informs our employment practices, and we are guided by the United underlying element of our business 1 Nations Global Compact UNGC policy initiative.
Our Global Employment Our environmental strategy model, and central to our strategy Policy www.
com SD policies commits us to workplace equality contributes to operational excellence, and material issues.
We invest in 2 and eliminating unfair discrimination: fair wages: not tolerating child labour drives resource efficiency, and our peoples development and and other forced labour: prohibiting harassment of any kind in the workplace: addresses our emissions, discharges training.
Employee engagement is encouraging workplace diversity: respecting the right of all employees to form and waste.
We regularly monitor also integral to the way we monitor and join trade unions of their choice and to bargain collectively: and promoting process waste, and where recycling and improve our performance.
3 the observance of human rights.
Labour and employment issues are or reuse is not possible, we treat Mondi has formal and informal managed locally under the guidance of the Group policies and standards.
our waste, combust preferably in processes to communicate combination with energy recovery or with and engage employees In line with our philosophy of encouraging diversity and eliminating discrimination, send to landfill as a last resort.
In addition to we provide equal opportunity for all men and women in the Group.
electronic communications and We focus on reducing air emissions publications, regular local briefing Gender diversity Male % Female % of sulphur compounds TRS from sessions by managers focus on kraft pulp mills, as they may create Directors 7 78 2 22 safety, operational objectives and an odour nuisance, and we regularly Senior managers 280 92 24 8 performance, financial performance engage with local communities to and the Groups values and culture.
The Group has a number of To minimise our impact on freshwater performance-related pay schemes Two of our nine board members are women and two of the four South Africansources, we have reduced our water that reward employees for the based board members are from historically disadvantaged communities.
consumption by implementing closed pursuit and achievement of business loops and recycling water streams, Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully considered.
In the objectives, and the majority of our where economically feasible.
The event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that employees participate in these discharge after production is treated their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is schemes.
in waste water treatment plants arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development before being released back into the and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be consistent natural environment.
with that of other employees.
Human rights and labour performance according 89% to our own policies and standards are among the requirements we ask our suppliers to comply with, and are a core element of Mondis Suppliers Code of We achieved an overall Conduct www.
com suppliers code of conduct.
11% participation rate of 89% in our 2013 employee survey 11% reduction of landfilled 2011: 81% waste since 2010 22% In 2014, 22% of our employees were female 2013: 20% and 8% of our senior managers were female 2013: 7% 871,000 5% 1 A UN policy initiative that aligns businesses with 10 universally accepted principles in the In 2014, approximately 871,000 5% reduction of specific areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
hours of employee and water consumption since 2010 2 Ensuring that wages paid for a standard working week shall at least meet legal or contractor time were devoted industry minimum standards and shall always be sufficient to meet the basic needs of to training and development our employees and to provide some discretionary income.
2013: 854,000, with around 40% 3 As set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, where it is within our power to do so within the countries where we operate.
focused on safety-related topics Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
