Governance 93 Dealing in securities The Boards have adopted a share dealing code for dealing in securities of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc which is based on regulatory and governance best practice in South Africa and the UK.
The code sets out the restrictions placed on directors, senior management and other key employees with regard to their share dealing to ensure that they do not abuse their access to information about the Group pending its public release and availability to shareholders and other interested parties.
The code is reviewed regularly and updated as required to ensure continued compliance with regulation and best practice.
Regular reminders of the procedures to be followed are issued and periodic training is provided to relevant employees.
All dealings by directors and persons discharging managerial responsibilities and their connected persons are announced to the JSE and the LSE when they occur.
Details of the directors interests in the shares of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc can be found on pages 108 to 112. Business ethics The Boards have adopted a code of business ethics, which applies throughout the Group and sets out five fundamental principles that govern the way in which Mondi and its employees conduct business.
Three of the principles are monitored and reviewed by the sustainable development committee human rights, stakeholders and sustainability and two by the audit committee legal compliance and honesty and integrity.
The code incorporates the requirement for the Group to comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
Although the Group does not have a single compliance function the legal teams of each division, together with the company secretaries of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, have oversight of compliance, including consideration of the application of non-binding rules, codes and standards.
Regular reports are presented to the Boards, or relevant committees, on compliance matters.
The detailed application of the principles of the code is documented in Mondis policies and procedures, in particular the business integrity policy and the sustainable development policy.
These policies have been rolled out across the Group and regular training is provided to all relevant employees.
Our internal audit team test the implementation of these policies and report to the audit committee on their findings.
The directors believe that the Group has robust compliance systems and procedures in place in relation to the code.
The directors are not aware of any material non-compliance with the code.
The code is available on the Mondi Group website.
Mondi has not been the subject of any legal actions against it for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices during the year.
Mondi has also not received any material fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
