Corporate Responsibility Report The Board considers that the management of safety, health, environment, social and ethical matters forms a key element of effective corporate governance which in turn supports the strategy, long-term performance and sustainability of the business.
Communities and charities The 2015 Charity of the Year is the National Total CO e by emission type in 2014 2 The Groups.
Community initiative was Autistic Society.
The charity provides help 2.4% launched in 2008 and has continued to and support to those affected by autism.
The initiative is focused on providing support to charities The Group launched a volunteering and community groups located within a scheme in October 2011 through which the few miles of the Groups offices in Ewloe, Group supports a total of 60 volunteering so support is targeted primarily in days per year to help those who are less Flintshire and Cheshire.
fortunate, and thereby make a valuable contribution to our local community.
A volunteer group of employees meet During the year employees volunteered in 97.6% regularly to review requests for donations a diverse range of activities including Save and to allocate funds according to agreed The Family at Plas Belin Oakenholt and the donation guidelines.
Employees are also sponsored Kilimanjaro Challenge.
active in researching and seeking out local Electricity, heat, steam and cooling good causes that the Group can help Environment purchased for own use 97.6% support.
The initiative has been effective The Group is committed to reducing Combustion of fuel and operation at harnessing the energy and enthusiasm energy and raw material usage to support of facilities 2.4% of the Groups employees to benefit the environmental and financial performance communities in which it operates.
and have implemented the following In order to express our annual emissions initiatives to support this aim: in relation to a quantifiable factor In 2014 the Group made 2,000 per month The installation of solar panels at the associated with our activities, we have available for the.
Groups Ewloe office resulting in energy used revenue as our intensity ratio as this This funding has been channelled via the savings of approximately 5,092kwh is a relevant indication of our growth and Charities Aid Foundation, enabling the during 2014 is aligned with our business strategy.
Group to make gross donations to The installation of LED lighting at the registered charities.
Groups Ewloe office Greenhouse gas emissions data The replacement of PCs and printers For period from 1 January to 31 December Over the course of the year the Group has with more energy efficient models supported over 40 charities and Tonnes of CO e 2 community groups including: The Group estimates that during 2014 it 2014 2013 Barnados Flintshire Young Carers recycled on average over 80% of its Emissions from: Danger Point Talacre commercial waste.
Ty Nos Homeless Shelter Combustion of fuel and Hawarden Rangers operation of facilities 26.4 25.3 Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Action for Sick Children This section includes our mandatory Electricity, heat, steam Wrexham Womens Aid reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and cooling purchased pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 for own use 968.6 918.0 In addition to the.
Community initiative, Strategic Report and Directors Report the Group and its employees continue to Companys chosen intensity Regulations 2013.
The methodology used to select and support a Charity of the Year on measurement: tonnes of calculate our emissions is based on the GHG an annual basis.
CO e per m revenue 4.01 4.18 2 Protocol Corporate Standard.
Emissions reported correspond with our financial year.
The 2014 Charity of the Year was Mind.
The We have included emissions from both our charity provides help and support to those owned and leased assets for which we are affected by mental health problems.
Emissions are predominantly the course of the year the Groups from gas combustion and electricity use at employees raised 66,832 for Mind with our offices and data centres.
We have the Group also donating 31,267 bringing reported on all material emission sources the total donated to Mind during the year which we deem ourselves to be responsible to 98,099. for.
Emission factors are from UK government conversion factor guidance current for the year reported.
26 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General 1 1 Kilimanjaro 12 employees took part in the Kilimanjaro Charity Challenge to raise funds for Mind.
2 Volunteering Employees volunteered at the Save the Family youth project.
3 Racing Employees raced in the Chester Dragon Boat Races to raise money for Mind.
2 3 Employees The Group is committed to an equal Supporting students The Group actively encourages employee opportunities policy.
The Group aims to In order to build links between the Group involvement and consultation.
It places ensure that no employee is discriminated and local schools and colleges, work considerable emphasis on keeping its against, directly or indirectly, on the experience and placements are offered to employees informed of the Groups grounds of colour, race, ethnic and a number of students.
In doing so, the activities via formal business national origins, sexual orientation or Group strives to make work placements performance updates, regular update gender, marital status, disability, religion positive, challenging and relevant to briefings, regular team meetings, the or belief, being part time or on the participants current studies and their Groups intranet site which enables easy grounds of age.
access to the latest Group information as well as Group policies, and the circulation Approximately 57% of our employees are Business ethics to employees of relevant information male and 43% female.
In our senior The Group has formal ethics and antiincluding corporate announcements.
leadership team, approximately 85% of the bribery policies which incorporate the This also helps to achieve a common team are male and 15% female whilst on Groups key principles and standards awareness amongst employees of the our Board, 82% of the Directors are male governing business conduct towards our financial and economic factors affecting and 18% female.
We believe we the performance of the Group.
should treat all of these groups with The Group recognises the importance of honesty and integrity.
A robust employee engagement survey health and safety and the positive benefits process is also in place to ensure that to the Group.
The Group has a health and employees are given a voice in the safety policy which is communicated to all organisation and that the Group can take employees through a health and safety action based on employee feedback.
handbook, which is regularly reviewed and updated.
