22 StrAteGiC rePOrt CorporAte reSponSIBIlIty VAlueS, StrAtegy AnD tone FroM tHe top We tAKe prIDe In our Culture oF IntegrIty AnD DoIng BuSIneSS In tHe rIgHt WAy.
It IS FunDAMentAl to CorporAte reSponSIBIlIty IS IntegrAl to tHe eVerytHIng We Do AnD MorgAn group: It MeAnS A CoMMItMent to our relAtIonSHIpS WItH BeHAVIng WItH IntegrIty AnD HAVIng A poSItIVe eACH oF our CuStoMerS, IMpACt on ItS eMployeeS, ItS StAKeHolDerS AnD SupplIerS, JoInt Venture pArtnerS AnD tHe CoMMunItIeS In WHICH tHe group WorKS.
Morgan values tone from the top Kevin dAnGerField the Core Values Statement is the guiding the Board is ultimately accountable for InterIM CHIeF exeCutIVe principle for the groups global approach to corporate responsibility and receives regular oFFICer & CHIeF FInAnCIAl corporate responsibility.
this underpins the reports on eHS, the rBp and global talent oFFICer groups commitment to doing business in the management.
right way: limiting the impact of its operations on the environment: protecting and developing the senior management team recognises the its people: and supporting the communities in need to lead by example.
the Chief executive which the group works.
officer takes the lead on doing business the right way, whilst, the Chief Financial officer is responsible for the groups approach to eHS.
Morgan strategy they are supported by the regional executive this firm commitment to doing business in the teams and functional heads with specific right way is integral to the group in continuing responsibility for environment, health and to be one of the worlds very best advanced safety, legal compliance and human resources.
materials companies, where corporate An example of this tone from the top in 2014 responsibility is a differentiator.
the groups was the Asia and South American executive responsible Business programme rBp, teams building additional compliance training environment, Health and Safety eHS into their regional meetings: this pull from the programme and the approach to Morgans executives rather than push from function people, support the aim of creating long-term heads is a testament to the value perceived sustainable shareholder value.
in doing business in the right way.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 23 implementation CorporAte reSponSIBIlIty How are the policies cascaded?
the rBp policies and procedures are mandated across the group and apply to all employees.
doing business in the right way training the rBp is the group-wide ethics and raising awareness of and educating employees the group intranet, Morganet, is the primary compliance programme, launched in 2010, on the group compliance policies and the means of making each of the policies, manuals providing a policy compliance framework applicable laws and regulations is a fundamental and guidelines available to employees.
It is underpinning the groups commitment, part of the rBp.
there are a number of acknowledged that not all employees can and ensuring a common approach, to challenges in delivering a programme of access Morganet, so hard copies are also doing business in the right way.
this nature across more than 50 countries, made available locally.
including language, culture and logistics.
the responsible Business Programme education on the rBp policies is also built into Feedback is sought from all attendees to the core elements of the rBp are policies each of the rBp elearning modules and all ensure that the programme develops year guidance, training education, compliance risk face-to-face materials.
on year and is relevant to each region and its assessments, monitoring and assurance employees rather than being a one size fits all through certifications, internal audit and site How is the training given?
In 2014, the fourth year of the programme, focus was given to reviewing the programme Since 2010, annual training has included: Policies and building the groups compliance strategy elearning modules for human rights, the rBp policies are the ethics, Competition going forward.
rather than holding global anti-bribery and ethics, anti-trust and Anti-trust, export and Donations and face-to-face train the facilitator sessions, as contract risk management: each of which Sponsorships policies.
has been done since 2010, webinars were requires a 100% test score in order to pass.
used as an alternative means to cascade train the facilitator training of local these and related manuals and guidelines updated training to these now experienced managers and site-based compliance are each available in 13 languages and oblige facilitators.
these facilitators subsequently officers and subsequent cascaded site-level employees to operate in accordance with cascaded this refresher training on anti-bribery training.
applicable laws and regulations, to obtain Ceo and competition locally, with the materials Site level training by the group rBp team approval before trading in certain countries, made available to them in 13 different at higher risk sites.
including Iran, Syria and Sudan: and to comply languages.
ultimately this training was with rules and internal reporting requirements delivered to more than 2,000 employees.
this has been further supplemented by the relating to donations and sponsorship.
provision of rBp training in group induction Beyond this group-wide cascade, a number processes.
this was reinforced in 2014 with these policies also apply, to the extent of the groups businesses in China and South additional guidance for Hr teams globally to appropriate, to Morgans business partners America requested additional, more localised ensure that this is standard practice around including agents, joint ventures and training.
In particular, the responsible Business guide for representatives summarises risk assessment the ethical principles the group requires its Annual compliance risk assessments across the representatives to adhere to in order to act group help to identify those businesses which on behalf of the group.
have a higher risk of a compliance breach, often associated with high-risk territories.
All policies, manuals and guidelines are subject these high-risk businesses receive additional to annual review.
focus and support including further training, guidance and site visits.
During 2014, certain of the groups businesses in China, Mexico and russia received such support.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 24 StrAteGiC rePOrt CorporAte reSponSIBIlIty continued What have the risk assessments shown?
Issues raised through the ethics Hotline or via Compliance visits the group-wide bribery risk assessments run other channels are followed up by the regional In 2014 the rBp team made compliance visits in 2013 and again in 2014 took into account president or the Company Secretary as to higher risk businesses in Mexico, russia, a number of factors including: location of appropriate.
Further investigation may be China, South Africa, Italy and the uS, meeting business, location of customers, the market conducted through the Audit Committee as with local management to discuss and assess sector and whether third-party agents were required.
Where appropriate, disciplinary action compliance practices, processes and issues.
the results of these assessments created up to and including dismissal is taken and or these visits are a means of monitoring and internal bribery risk rankings that were used additional guidance and training provided.
obtaining assurance on the efficacy of the rBp to focus additional support, monitoring and at business level and provide an opportunity to training delivered in 2014 to a number of the During 2014, 31 reports were received via the support the business through local training and groups businesses including those in China Hotline in respect of 14 matters compared face-to-face dialogue.
these risk assessments with seven reports in 2013 from the uK, the compliance visits were carried out and many also help to inform the compliance visit uS, germany, Mexico and South Africa.
each common issues were identified: these included schedule for the group.
this risk assessment of the calls related to local human resource recommendations for more regular third-party process will be reviewed and refreshed in grievances and the style behaviour of local agent reviews and how to include the rBp 2015 to encompass other compliance risks management.
the reports were relayed to the in recruitment and induction processes.
such as competition anti-trust and export.
relevant regional president and were subject no substantive issues were identified.
to investigation and further actions.
no material issues were discovered.
effectiveness Internal Audit Annual certification Internal Audit monitors adherence to key rBp the Audit Committee annually monitors and regional presidents and all functional heads are processes including completion of site-level reviews the effectiveness of the Hotline and required on an annual basis to certify that the training, induction processes, compliance with of the follow-up investigation processes by businesses functions they are responsible for key elements of the rBp policies and the filing considering the number of calls, which have implemented and complied in full with of reporting forms.
Internal Audit also ensures countries they came from and the results of the rBp policies or, declared any exceptions.
that the availability of the ethics Hotline is the investigations: for 2014 it was satisfied that the Interim Ceo CFo and Coo then certify adequately promoted at site level.
the Hotline and investigation processes were to the Board on a group-wide basis.
operating effectively, but requested that a During 2014, Internal Audit identified a review and refresh of this Hotline is carried this certification forms an integral part of number of immaterial breaches in gifts and out in 2015. the groups system of internal controls.
entertainment approval processes, particularly no material exceptions were declared in in Asia.
Further focus and support continues to The RBP going forward respect of 2014. be given to some of the Asia businesses where During 2015, the group plans to further culture and local practices present more of develop the rBp in a number of ways this is further supplemented by annual a challenge to doing business in line with the including: site-level certification, where relevant rBp.
this will include additional compliance Introducing new elearning modules.
employees certify that they understand and visits and tailored face-to-face training in 2015. global face-to-face training of general are compliant with the rBp and related Managers, Compliance officers and policies and manuals.
Ethics Hotline executives: with subsequent cascade to the ethics Hotline, operated by expolink, site level.
training in 2015 will focus on During 2014, the group also introduced a was in place throughout the year.
It enables anti-bribery, competition with particular new compliance questionnaire which is aimed employees who are aware of, or suspect, focus on further education on at formalising the group-wide reporting of misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse of management of vertical competition risk, operational and compliance issues on a group assets or violations of any group policy export and contract risk management.
to report these confidentially without fear of Introduction of new compliance software retribution should they feel they cannot use to reinforce Adequate procedures and a local channel.
the Hotline includes local reduce the administrative burden on the free-phone numbers in each of the countries business.
in which the group operates with real-time Continued testing of the embedding of translators available as necessary.
the programme through focused business compliance visits.
Further development of third-party agent risk management.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 25 A key component of thinkSAFe is the installation enVIronMent, HeAltH AnD SAFety of a safety corner at each group facility.
the safety corners are used to build a greater awareness of health and safety and provide an interactive focus for safety information.
As part of the development of the thinkSAFe programme, the group created and trialled MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS enVIronMent, an internal online reporting system for the HeAltH AnD SAFety eHS polICy AnD IMpleMentAtIon capture of health and safety incident data on progrAMMeS Support tHe groupS FIVe StrAtegIC a global basis.
the system captures incidents in real-time and notifies individuals by email prIorItIeS AnD Core VAlueS StAteMent.
eHS when an incident is logged.
the system also perForMAnCe HAS A DIreCt AnD SIgnIFICAnt drives a detailed incident investigation process that will help further increase understanding eFFeCt on operAtIng perForMAnCe AnD IS of accident root causes thereby helping the tHereFore A Key FoCuS For rISK ASSeSSMent AnD group to reduce the occurrence of accidents operAtIonAl MAnAgeMent ACroSS tHe group.
and the resulting lost time.
the first phase of the system, covering lost time accidents, went live on 1 January 2015.
Morgan Advanced Materials is committed to 2014 highlights the group is also committed to minimising conducting all of its activities in a manner which launched Morgan thinkSAFe, the the impact of its business on the environment achieves high standards of health and safety for groups safety performance improvement and maximising the positive environmental employees and others affected by its operations.
this is a top down behaviourbenefits of its products.
examples of Morgans this commitment is continuous and on-going as based safety programme led by the Chief products which help enhance the part of which the group has adopted the executive officer and the executive team environment-related performance and following core health and safety values: designed to reduce work related accidents, efficiency of the products and operations We are committed to creating a culture illness and lost time.
the programme was of the groups customers are included in and environment that is zero harm with formally launched in Asia in the final pages 2 to 3 and 10 to 13 of this report.
no related accidents or illness due to our quarter of 2014 and will be implemented activities.
throughout the group during 2015. this report includes a summary of the We will encourage and expect our Adopted a new set of Health and Safety groups eHS policy and its effectiveness as employees and contractors to be core values which have been demonstrated through its eHS KpIs and passionate about safety.
Further detail We are dedicated to creating a positive participated in the Carbon Disclosure will be included in the 2014 eHS report to safety culture based on openness, project 2014 and, for the third consecutive be published on the groups website in May transparency and responsibility.
year, was awarded a position in the Carbon 2015. the eHS report will also include case We support a safe working culture Disclosure leadership Index, recognising studies to help demonstrate the groups through investment and training.
the depth and quality of the climate change approach to eHS performance improvement.
We will engage with our people to data disclosed by the group.
continuously improve safety knowledge, Developed a group-wide online incident under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic reporting and performance through our tracking system to cover health and safety report and Directors report regulations commitment to our thinkSAFe incidents.
2013 the group is required to report its annual programme.
greenhouse gas emissions for the year in its Directors report.
this information is shown these values have been adopted group-wide on page 87 and includes the Co e due to 2 and are available in 17 of the working energy use which is further analysed in this languages used across the group.
section, as well as other sources of greenhouse gases.
Co e. Carbon Dioxide equivalent the amount of Carbon Dioxide or the amount of non-Co greenhouse gas with the equivalent global warming potential.
2 2 AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 26 StrAteGiC rePOrt CorporAte reSponSIBIlIty continued Morgans group-level eHS management ehS Policy ehS Policy effectiveness processes include: Morgans eHS policy applies to all group Morgan Advanced Materials monitors the the eHS Compliance Audit programme, businesses worldwide: it forms the basis for effectiveness of its eHS policy through the eHS which is carried out by external eHS executive and management oversight and Compliance Audit programme, the review of consultants in all regions world-wide.
implementation and has been communicated performance against a series of group-wide this programme reviews the eHS across all sites within the group.
the policy KpIs, its external assurance programme and by management at each site and helps ensure is published on the groups website and in participating in a number of external initiatives compliance with local regulations and the annual eHS report.
the eHS Compliance Audit programme also covers the summary charts on pages 27 to 29 ehS Policy implementation the eHS management systems and the represent the groups eHS performance, Morgans eHS governance procedures are eHS KpIs reported by each site.
All of the covering all production sites during the year.
centred on its eHS policy which forms the groups manufacturing facilities are basis of the groups eHS management systems reviewed on a three-year rolling cycle.
environmental intensity KpIs are reported and processes.
the policy requires high Accordingly, 26 sites were audited during at constant currency and, where necessary, standards of eHS management at all sites.
2014. the audit reports are reviewed by historic eHS data is updated to reflect changes this is implemented through performance the Director, environment, Health and in reporting methodology and to ensure monitoring, risk assessment and the Safety and by the regional presidents.
management and mitigation of identified risks Action items are tracked through a formal to help provide continuous improvement in follow-up process.
In 2014 the independent external assurance eHS performance in support of the groups Formal training as an integral part of the performed by pwC covered the groups lost strategic priorities.
implementation of the groups eHS policy.
time accident frequency rate, Co e intensity, 2 this is undertaken at a regional level energy intensity, waste intensity, water intensity the group is committed to providing effective according to business-specific risks and and waste recycling rate.
the assurance report leadership in pursuit of an injury-free and opportunities, with group-level support from pwC is set out on page 30. environmentally responsible work place and and oversight.
the Chief operating officer and the operational Monthly performance reporting against the the group participates in a number of external management team are responsible for eHS group KpIs by all group sites.
the data is initiatives which help to benchmark policy performance, with each site having a point of subject to bi-annual review and challenge at effectiveness and progress.
there are eHS leaders in each group level with reporting of performance participation in the Carbon Disclosure project region, with an additional leader recruited for to the executive Committee and the Board in respect of the groups climate change and South America during the year.
this global by the Chief Financial officer.
water-related strategies, risks, management and network of specialists reports to the regional performance.
In 2014, for the third consecutive management teams and is responsible for taking site openings and closures into account, year CDp awarded Morgan a position in the improving the standards of eHS management in 2014 environmental management systems Climate Disclosure leadership Index.
this and performance in the groups businesses.
were in place at 94 sites worldwide, including performance reflects the depth and quality of 42 sites certified to ISo 14001.
Additional climate change data the group has disclosed As described below, the group commissioned certifications were achieved at sites in China to investors and the global marketplace through external assurance on selected eHS data from and Canada in 2014. these new certifications CDp.
the group also participated in the CDp  llp pwC.
are in addition to the ongoing programme of Water programme in 2014. re-certifications.
Worldwide, 99 sites have health and safety management systems in Morgan Advanced Materials has made filings place, with 17 sites certified to or working in respect of the groups uK facilities under towards oHSAS 18001. the uK governments Carbon reduction Commitment energy efficiency scheme.
the group also has plans in place to comply with the requirements of Article 8 of the european unions energy efficiency Directive which will apply to certain of the groups businesses in europe.
In the uK this is being implemented by the energy Savings opportunity Scheme eSoS introduced by the uK governments Department of energy and Climate Change.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 27 In absolute terms total Co e emissions due to environmental performance 2 CO e DUE TO ENERGY USE 2 energy use in 2014 were some 400,300 tonnes, As reported above, the group is committed Tonnes up by 4% from 386,500 tonnes in 2013 and 1% to environmental responsibility and works to 2014 400,300 higher than the 394,500 tonnes reported for minimise the impact of its business on the 2012. energy use was some 1,333 gWh, up by environment and to maximise the positive 2013 386,500 3% from 1,295 gWh in 2013 and 1% up against environmental benefit of its products.
Morgan Advanced Materials monitors the 2011 436,700 taking into account the decline in the groups impact of its operations on the environment, 2010 426,600 sales at constant currency since the baseline as measured by its Scope 1 Co e and Scope 2 2 year of 2012, Co e intensity was up by 2% Co emissions, energy, waste and water 2 2 compared with 2013 and by 5% compared with intensity per million of revenue.
CO e INTENSITY DUE TO ENERGY USE 2 2012. thus the group did not achieve its target Tonnes CO e m revenue 2 to reduce the Co e emissions intensity due to the group sets two-year targets for the 2 2014 434 energy use by 5% over the two-year period improvement in these environmental metrics 2012-14.
2014 energy intensity was up by 1% and the groups 2014 performance is a report 2013 427 compared with 2013 and by 4% compared against the targets for the two-year period 2012 414 with 2012.
Further details of the groups eHS targets and objectives will be included in the 2011 427 energy and Co e intensity has been reduced groups 2014 eHS report, which will be 2 2010 456 since 2010 and the group continues to have a published on the groups website in May 2015. number of production improvement projects which include energy efficiency programmes.
the group did not achieve its environmental ENERGY USE these are planned to help reduce energy targets for the period 2012-14. these intensity GWh intensity in 2015 and beyond.
targets and KpIs relate environmental impacts 2014 1,333 to revenue and although revenues at constant currency were up on 2013, they were down 2013 1,295 compared to 2012, the baseline year for the 2012 1,319 groups intensity targets.
Whilst many sites worldwide achieved or exceeded their individual 2011 1,439 environmental targets this was not sufficient for 2010 1,397 the group as a whole to meet its targets.
Various factors contributed to this during 2014, including a number of production transfer, ENERGY INTENSITY technology change and commissioning projects, MWh m revenue which led to a reduction in production and 2014 1,446 environmental efficiency over the target period.
2013 1,430 2012 1,386 2011 1,406 2010 1,492 the 2011-2014 Co e intensity, energy intensity, water intensity and the 2012-2014 waste intensity and waste 2 recycling rate information has been subject to assurance by pwC.
For further details of the assurance provided see the Independent Assurance report on page 30.
Further details of the 2013, 2012 and 2011 assurance provided are included in the Independent Assurance reports on page 31 of the 2013 Annual report, page 25 of the 2012 Annual report and page 41 of the 2011 Annual report.
Scope 1 Co e emissions from fossil fuel usage and Scope 2 Co using country-specific electricity factors 2 2 as Co e factors are not consistently available for electricity use in all countries.
2 Constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
Co e. Carbon Dioxide equivalent the amount of Carbon Dioxide or the amount of non-Co greenhouse gas 2 2 with the equivalent global warming potential.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 28 StrAteGiC rePOrt CorporAte reSponSIBIlIty continued 3 total waste reported in 2014 was 49,400 total water use in 2014 was 2.50 million m, WASTE WASTE 3 tonnes, up by 11% from 44,600 tonnes in up 10% from 2.27 million m in 2013 but Tonnes Tonnes 3 2013 and 1% higher than the 48,700 tonnes down 1% from 2.52 million m in 2012.
Waste intensity was up by Water use intensity increased by 8% 9% compared with 2013 and by 5% compared compared with 2013 and by 3% compared 22001133 44,600 44,600 with 2012. thus the group did not achieve its with 2012. this was behind the target to 22001122 48,700 48,700 target to reduce waste intensity by 5% over the reduce water intensity by 5% over the two two-year period 2012-14. the increased level years 2012-14.
Despite a significant reduction 22001111 48,400 48,400 of waste reported in 2014 includes the impact in the water intensity at key sites in the Asia 22001100 46,200 46,200 of the production and technology change rest of World region, where water is a limited projects mentioned above and the one-off resource, this improvement was not sufficient disposal of historic waste at sites in Italy, India to offset the increased intensity at a number WASTE WASTE INTENSITY INTENSITY and elsewhere.
of sites which were not operating at optimum Tonnes Tonnes waste waste m revenue m revenue efficiency and by other sites as new processes 2 20 01 14 4 54 54 the proportion of total waste which was were commissioned and optimised.
Water use recycled was 28% in 2014, down by 3 and intensity has been reduced significantly 2 20 01 13 3 49 49 percentage points from 31% in 2013 and down since 2010 and the group will seek to achieve 2 20 01 12 2 51 51 by 6 percentage points from the 34% reported further improvements in 2015-16. for 2012. the recycling rate achieved in 2012, 2 20 01 11 1 47 47 and to a lesser extent in 2013, was enhanced 2 20 01 10 0 49 49 by a number of one-off disposals of recyclable material, including surplus materials and equipment across a number of sites worldwide, WATER USE WATER USE much of which was recycled.
thus the group 3 3 million m million m did not achieve its target to increase the 2 20 01 14 4 2.50 2.50 proportion of total waste which is recycled over the two years 2012-14.
Constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material.
Water from all sources, including process, irrigation and sanitary use.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 29 the groups 2014 health and safety health and safety performance LOST TIME ACCIDENTS LOST TIME ACCIDENTS performance was behind that achieved in 2013 Morgan Advanced Materials is committed to Number of LTAs Number of LTAs and so the group did not achieve its objective adopting and implementing its new health and 2 20 01 14 4 110 110 of improving on the performance achieved in safety core values with the long-term aim of the prior year.
the group has over 130 sites an injury-free workplace and to conducting all 2 20 01 13 3 97 97 worldwide and overall the majority performed its activities in a manner which achieves high 2 20 01 12 2 114 114 well with no lost time Accidents reported standards of health and safety for all employees during the year.
However, a small number of and others affected by its operations.
the 2 20 01 11 1 132 132 sites reported a disproportionate number of groups long-term objective is zero harm and 2 20 01 10 0 124 124 lost time Accidents in the year, resulting in it seeks to achieve year-on-year improvements the overall decline in performance.
the group in performance as it progresses towards this is already taking action to address performance objective.
LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY issues at these sites.
LTAs 100K hours worked LTAs 100K hours worked the groups health and safety policy statements 2 20 01 14 4 0.53 0.53 In 2014 the groups ltA frequency was are clear and communicated throughout the up 16% at 0.53 per 100,000 hours worked group and health and safety metrics receive 0.46 0.46 2 20 01 13 3 2013: 0.46. the number of lost time a high degree of focus at all levels of the business.
2 20 01 12 2 0.52 0.52 accidents reported was 110 2013: 97. the policy statements are supported by site-level assessment and monitoring of risks.
2 20 01 11 1 0.58 0.58 reported lost time due to accidents and 2 20 01 10 0 0.58 0.58 work-related illnesses as a percentage of In 2014 the groups accident prevention and working time increased from increased from training programmes were ongoing, with the 0.10% in 2013 to 0.12% in 2014. the number objective of reducing accident numbers and HEALTH AND SAFETY-RELATED LOST TIME HEALTH AND SAFETY-RELATED LOST TIME of days lost during 2014 was up by 19% and the the time lost per lost time accident.
particular % of total working time % of total working time number of hours worked decreased by 2%.
focus is placed on those sites with below- 2 20 01 14 4 0.12% 0.12% average performance, as measured by their the reported average number of days lost per health and safety KpIs and through the eHS 2 20 01 13 3 0.10% 0.10% ltA reported in the year increased by 5%.
2 20 01 12 2 0.12% 0.12% this reflected a small number of longer-term cases at certain sites, whilst the majority the groups health and safety KpIs include 2 20 01 11 1 0.10% 0.10% of sites improved performance through an accident frequencies, causes and related lost 2 20 01 10 0 0.11% 0.11% increased focus on the management of ltAs working time.
these are used to monitor the and lost time.
effectiveness of the groups Health and Safety policies and related systems on a monthly basis.
LOST TIME PER LTA LOST TIME PER LTA the inquest into the employee fatality which In 2014 the independent external assurance Days per LTA Days per LTA occurred in December 2012 at the groups performed by pwC covered the groups lost site in ruabon, uK returned a formal verdict 2 20 01 14 4 28.6 28.6 time Accident ltA frequency rate.
the Company has been 2 20 01 13 3 27.3 27.3 informed that Morgan technical Ceramics ltd will be subject to a prosecution by the uK 2 20 01 12 2 27.8 27.8 Health and Safety executive in relation to 2 20 01 11 1 21.0 21.0 this incident.
2 20 01 10 0 23.7 23.7 lost time Accident ltA : accident or work-related illness which results in one or more days lost time.
the 2013 and 2014 lost time Accident Frequency information has been subject to assurance by pwC.
Further details of the 2013 assurance provided are included in the Independent Assurance report on page 31 of the 2013 Annual report.
total time lost due to health and safety in the year divided by the number of lost time accidents reported in the year.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 30 StrAteGiC rePOrt InDepenDent ASSurAnCe report independent limited Assurance report to the directors of Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
the Directors of Morgan Advanced Materials plc Morgan engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below and set out in Morgans Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Our conclusion Understanding reporting and measurement Our responsibilities Based on the procedures we have performed methodologies We are responsible for: and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has the Selected Information needs to be read and planning and performing the engagement to come to our attention that causes us to believe understood together with the reporting Criteria, obtain limited assurance about whether the that the Selected information for the year ended which Morgan is solely responsible for selecting Selected Information is free from material 31 december 2014 has not been prepared, in all and applying.
the absence of a significant body of misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: material respects, in accordance with the established practice on which to draw to evaluate Forming an independent conclusion, based on reporting Criteria.
and measure non-financial information allows for the procedures we have performed and the different, but acceptable, measurement techniques evidence we have obtained: and this conclusion is to be read in the context of what and can affect comparability between entities and reporting our conclusion to the Directors we say in the remainder of our report.
the reporting Criteria used for the of Morgan.
reporting of the Selected Information are as at Selected information 31 December 2014. this report, including our conclusions, has been the scope of our work was limited to assurance prepared solely for the Directors of Morgan as a over the selected environment, health and safety work done body in accordance with the agreement between eHS data the Selected Information marked with We are required to plan and perform our work in us, to assist the Directors in reporting Morgans eHS the symbol in the Morgan Annual report for the order to consider the risk of material misstatement performance and activities.
We permit this report to year ended 31 December 2014. of the Selected Information.
In doing so, we: be disclosed in the Annual report for the year Made enquiries of Morgans management, ended 31 December 2014, to enable the Directors the Selected Information and the reporting Criteria including those with responsibility for eHS to show they have addressed their governance against which it was assessed are summarised management and group eHS reporting: responsibilities by obtaining an independent below.
our assurance does not extend to evaluated the design of the key structures, assurance report in connection with the Selected information in respect of earlier periods or to any systems, processes and controls for managing, Information.
to the fullest extent permitted by law, other information included in the Morgan Annual recording and reporting the Selected Information.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to report for the year ended 31 December 2014. this included analysing 13 sites, and visiting six of anyone other than the Directors as a body and Co e and Co e intensity scope 1 and scope 2 these, selected on the basis of their inherent risk Morgan for our work or this report except where 2 2 emissions due to energy use : and materiality to the group, to understand the terms are expressly agreed between us in writing.
energy use and energy intensity: key processes and controls for reporting site  LLP Water use and water intensity: performance data to the group eHS team: Chartered Accountants Waste and waste intensity: performed limited substantive testing on a london recycling rate: and selective basis of the Selected Information at 12 February 2015 number of lost time accidents and lost time corporate Head office and in relation to the accident frequency rate.
same 13 sites noted above to assure that data 1 the maintenance and integrity of Morgans website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by us does had been appropriately measured, recorded, not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we We assessed the Selected Information using collated and reported: and accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred Morgans reporting Criteria as set out at: Considered the disclosure and presentation to the reported Selected Information or reporting Criteria when http: www.
com of the Selected Information.
1 2 We have complied with International Standard on Assurance responsible-business  engagements 3000 Assurance engagements other than Audits Morgan responsibilities or reviews of Historical Financial Information and, in respect of 2 Professional standards applied and level of the Directors of Morgan are responsible for: the greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance with International 3 Standard on Assurance engagements 3410 Assurance assurance the identification and reporting of Morgans engagements on greenhouse gas Statements, issued by the We performed a limited assurance engagement in material environmental and health and safety International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
accordance with ISAe 3000 and, in respect of impacts which are included in the Selected 3 A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than greenhouse gas emissions information, ISAe 3410.
Information: a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal Designing, implementing and maintaining control, and the procedures performed in response to the Our independence and Quality Control internal controls over information relevant to assessed risks.
We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants the preparation of the Selected Information 4 We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants in england and Wales ICAeW Code of ethics which includes in england and Wales ICAeW Code of ethics and that is free from material misstatement, independence and other requirements founded on fundamental the International Standard on Quality Control whether due to fraud or error: principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and 4 uK & Ireland 1. establishing objective reporting Criteria due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
We apply for preparing the Selected Information: International Standard on Quality Control uK & Ireland 1 and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control our work was carried out by an independent team Measuring and reporting the Selected including documented policies and procedures regarding with experience in sustainability reporting and Information based on the reporting Criteria: and compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards assurance.
the content of the Annual report 2014. and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 31 CorporAte reSponSIBIlIty continued People Policies and their recruitment people Morgan Advanced Materials recognises the implementation benefits of external recruitment as well as the group supports the universal Declaration building its own internal pipeline of talented of Human rights, and the groups Human TOTAL LOST TIME people.
this year Morgan has continued to rights policy commits the group to protect % of working time use formal assessments at more senior levels the rights of everyone who works for it and all 2014 2.4 to strengthen selection decision-making and those who have dealings with it.
the principles support induction plans.
Whether recruiting of the policy cover child labour, forced labour, 2013 3.1 internally or externally, selection is based on health and safety, freedom of association, 2012 2.7 many factors including relevant education, discrimination, discipline, working hours and work experience, competencies, potential, compensation and the policy is published on 2011 2.9 and performance record.
the group does not the groups website.
Morgan Advanced 2010 2.6 unfairly discriminate and it respects human rights.
Materials does not unfairly discriminate and Should existing employees become disabled, respects human rights.
our employee policies the groups policy is to provide continuing are set locally to comply with local law within EMPLOYEE TURNOVER employment and training wherever practicable.
the Morgan % per year Advanced Materials ethics Hotline enables 2014 13.8% the group has operated its current graduate employees who are aware of or suspect issues programme model for a third successive year.
under the groups Human rights policy to 2013 13.8% graduates initially join our businesses in Asia, report these confidentially.
2012 13.4% europe and north America and take part in a common development programme that builds talent 2011 13.7% current and future capability and gives access the group has continued to develop its 2010 13.7% to international assignments and opportunities.
talent strategy during 2014 following the the Chief executive and other members of implementation of the one Morgan restructure the group executive personally take part in of 2013.
Further key appointments have been TRAINING the development programmes.
made in the new business leadership teams Hours per employee and new external appointments have been 2014 13.1 the group continues to strengthen existing made in key group roles, including It and relationships with leading universities working eH&S.
organisation structures continued to 2013 13.9 in materials science, providing information, be refined and developed during the year.
2012 15.1 materials and opportunities for existing Morgan staff as well as undergraduate and Morgan believes in developing its people to 2011 13.3 postgraduate students.
this includes a joint grow its business and make the group more 2010 12.9 development agreement with the university competitive.
the current business structure of Manchester, aimed at scaling up a new enables effective talent interventions through process for manufacturing graphene.
Morgan Advanced Materials has circa 9,000 internal promotions, development employees, working across the globe in all opportunities and targeted recruitment.
the group training and development this includes the continued prioritisation recognises that its people are critical to its overall training hours per employee have of the groups global graduate programme.
success, employing a workforce with highly reduced by 6% to 13.1 hours per person.
this the bi-annual succession and talent review unique skills and abilities.
Set out below are the is expected to increase in 2015, with some of process continues to ensure that succession groups people policies, how they have been the new initiatives described below.
reasons for for key roles is planned, and that future implemented, together with a review of their reduced overall training hours in 2014 include strategic and individual needs are assessed.
fewer new recruits, and therefore less induction talent development and acquisition is training and the completion of specific training positioned to emphasise capability in business projects on It implementation training.
While development, sales, technology innovation, there has been a reduction of external training and commercial leadership.
this has been due to a refocus of training needs and some now being done internally.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW 32 StrAteGiC rePOrt CorporAte reSponSIBIlIty continued the group has maintained training in critical commercial considerations that are both the groups geographical spread of people skills such as management, commercial, competitive in the countries in which they is as follows: technical, and health and safety training.
Morgan Advanced Geographical spread 2014 the group launched a global leadership Materials offers short-term performance development programme in conjunction with incentives globally to managers, technical 2014 2013 Cranfield universitys executive Development and functional experts.
this is a strategically focused and Senior Management also have long-term uK 14% 16% programme working to develop the future of incentives tied to personal and commercial China 15% 16% Morgans commercial leaders, and reinforcing performance.
At plant level, most sites offer other europe 19% 17% the effective use of Morgan business tools and incentives to their workforce that result in techniques.
payments based on meeting locally-set other n. A.
South America 5% 4% In early 2015, the group will launch its roW 11% 12% updated Advanced Development programme, Morgan Advanced Materials regularly reviews which aims to accelerate the development of bonus arrangements and benefits to ensure Breakdown of staff by gender future general managers, technical leaders and they encourage and reward commercial and heads of functions.
at 31 december 2014 the regional businesses have also increased Communication total workforce 9,022 their focus on strategic development.
For Follow-up actions against Morgans 2013 6,634 example, in Asia, two programmes have been employee Survey results took place Male 74% launched Ascend and Velocity which aim throughout 2014.
In particular the regional 2,388 to build the capability of their management businesses aimed to improve communication, Female and executive teams.
regional training in ensure supervisors more frequently recognise 26% commercial skills, such as sales, that began good work and employees received Senior Managers 22 in 2014 will continue during 2015. appropriate support to learn new skills.
21 Male 95% the thinkSAFe programme, which was Across the group, there have been increased 1 launched at the end of 2014, is designed employee briefings and forums covering Female to improve employees understanding of 5% business results, business strategy, business behavioural safety, and enhance the groups improvement, safety and employee survey directors 9 Health and Safety approach through follow-up.
Videos, poster campaigns and 8 a consistent global approach to training, Male newsletters have also continued to be a 89% engagement and behaviours.
this will be strong feature of communication activity 1 a significant undertaking in 2015 with 2,000 in 2014.
In particular, there has been an Female managers being trained in addition to train-the- 11% increase in visibility of wellbeing campaigns.
trainer sessions and workshops for operations staff in the year.
this programme is covered in the 2014 survey was launched at the end of lost time as a proportion of total working time further detail in the environment, Health and 2014, and the results will be reported in next decreased to 2.4% 3.1% in 2013, with lost Safety section on pages 25 to 30. years Annual report.
time due to accidents in the workplace at 0.1% of total working time 0.1% in 2013. the responsible Business programme rBp Morgan Advanced Materials continues to have is the group-wide ethics and compliance formal and informal consultative arrangements During the year, 25 employees around the programme, launched in 2010, with the core globally, according to local requirements and world celebrated 40 years of loyal service elements of policies, training, risk assessments, regulations.
the 18th annual european with Morgan Advanced Materials, with 283 monitoring and assurance.
the training covers employee Forum was held in May 2014, which employees celebrating anniversaries of 20, human rights, anti-bribery and ethics, anti-trust was attended by site employee representatives 25 or 30 years service.
Additionally, 1 person and contract risk management and is refreshed from France, germany, Hungary, Italy and the celebrated 50 years service with Morgan.
this programme is covered united Kingdom.
the group is pleased with the number of in further detail on pages 22 to 24. employees who remain with the group for People Policy effectiveness significant periods of their careers, and whose reward, recognition and awards At the end of the year, Morgan Advanced experience the group has retained.
the group recognises the accomplishments of Materials employed circa 9,000 people.
its people individually and as teams, and makes the group additionally contracted with circa awards to acknowledge achievement, loyalty, 1,000 people on short-term arrangements and innovation.
In 2014, recognition awards to provide the flexibility for the groups continued to be made across local businesses.
businesses to react quickly to changes in market conditions.
the groups employee the principle of pay for performance is applied turnover was 13.8% in 2014, excluding to the groups compensation approach and disposals 13.8% in 2013.
1.7% of the the Company sets compensation levels using workforce was made redundant during external benchmarking and relevant the year 2.1% in 2013.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 StrAteGiC rePOrt 33 our graduates are employed across the world in real jobs which grADuAte leADerSHIp progrAMMe are designed to build on the technical skills they developed at university and expose them to the opportunities to learn and grow and also deliver real business outcomes.
An AWArD-WInnIng grADuAte SCHeMe, proVIDIng reAl Morgans graduate leadership programme accepts talented opportunItIeS For young individuals from a range of academic disciplines, meeting a minimum standard of qualification, with either undergraduate, tAlent WItHIn tHe group postgraduate or doctorate qualifications.
Morgan Advanced Materials award-winning programmes are In the european business, in addition to the postgraduate designed to turn driven and talented young professionals into programme, Morgan also has a programme for placement students future leaders within the business.
We provide students and who work with the business for a year during their degree, gaining graduates with the opportunity to develop and implement new valuable experience and insight into commercial applications of the ideas and unleash their potential whilst also benefiting from the technologies they are studying.
Also, to further encourage future mentorship of experienced professionals.
generations into science, technology, engineering and maths SteM subjects, our graduates go out to uK schools as part of our Morgan Ambassadors Scheme and talk to young students about the benefits of working in engineering and science roles.
AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW
