ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Groups treasury policy allows the use of derivative instruments provided they are not entered into for speculative purposes.
Further details of the Groups treasury operations are given in Note 27 to the financial statements.
In addition, NEXT has to fund its defined benefit pension scheme and ensure that sufficient contributions are made to meet outstanding liabilities as they fall due.
If NEXT fails to provide sufficient and timely funding, action may be taken by the pension scheme trustees, or the Pensions Regulator, which could result in an acceleration and or an increase in overall contributions towards any deficit.
Management meets regularly with the trustees to assess fund performance, as well as to agree future contribution levels and any necessary changes to members future benefits.
EMPLOYEES NEXTs employees are key to achieving business objectives.
NEXT has established policies for recruitment, training and development of personnel and is committed to achieving excellence in the areas of health, safety, welfare and protection of employees and their working environment.
Equal opportunities and diversity NEXT is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to ensure it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
Full consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Group has continued the employment wherever possible of any person who becomes disabled during their employment.
Opportunities for training, career development and promotion do not operate to the detriment of disabled employees.
The following table shows the gender mix of the Groups employees at the end of the financial year: 2014 2013 Males Females Males Females Directors of NEXT plc 8 3 8 2 Subsidiary directors and other senior managers 29 13 27 17 Total employees 15,929 34,138 16,856 36,369 Training and development NEXT aims to realise the potential of its employees by supporting their career progression and promotion wherever possible.
It makes significant investment in the training and development of staff and in training and education programmes which contribute to the promotion prospects of employees.
Employee communication NEXT has a policy of providing employees with financial and other information about the business and ensures that the suggestions and views of employees are taken into account.
NEXT has an employee forum made up of elected representatives from throughout the business who attend meetings at least twice a year with directors and senior managers.
This forum enables and encourages open discussion on key business issues, policies and the working environment.
Employee share ownership Approximately 9,800 employees held options over 7.4 million shares in NEXT at January 2014, being 4.8% of the total shares in issue.
Its employee share ownership trust ESOT purchases shares for issue to employees when their options are exercised.
At the year end the ESOT held 6.2 million shares, the voting rights of which are exercisable by the Trustee.
Pension provision NEXT offers valuable pension benefits to participating employees, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report and in Note 21 to the financial statements.
At January 2014, there were 1,169 2013: 1,242 active members in the Defined Benefit Section of the Next Group Pension Plan and 2,775 2013: 2,375 UK employees with Defined Contribution arrangements.
22 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS NEXT is committed to the principles of responsible business.
This means addressing key business related social, ethical and environmental matters in a way that aims to bring value to all of its stakeholders, including customers and shareholders.
Continuous improvement lies at the heart of NEXTs approach and is achieved by acting in an ethical manner, developing positive relationships with suppliers, recruiting and retaining successful and responsible employees, taking responsibility for our impact on the environment and through contributions to charities and community organisations.
NEXT has a Corporate Responsibility CR forum of 15 senior managers and directors representing key areas of the business to develop and implement strategy.
The forum identifies potential issues and opportunities and evaluates the success of NEXTs response.
The CR Manager holds regular updates with the executive director responsible for CR.
A third party provides independent assurance on the Groups CR report which is published on the Companys website each year.
Commitment to CR matters is recognised externally by its membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Suppliers In common with other retailers, NEXTs product supply chain is both diverse and dynamic.
Last year, NEXT used over 500 third party suppliers with products manufactured across some 40 countries.
The challenge of trading ethically and acting responsibly towards the workers within our own and our suppliers factories is a key priority.
NEXT is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative and operates its Code of Practice COP, an established set of ethical trading standards, as an integral part of its operations.
The NEXT COP has ten key principles that stipulate the minimum standards with which suppliers are required to comply in relation to workers rights and conditions of work including working hours, minimum age of employment, health, safety, welfare and environmental issues.
NEXT seeks to ensure all products bearing the NEXT brand are produced in a clean and safe environment and in accordance with all relevant laws.
NEXT is committed to its supplier audit and management programme and has a COP audit team of 45 staff 2013: 44 which carried out more than 1,500 factory audits last year.
The COP team works directly with suppliers to identify and address causes of non-compliance.
Each audited factory is measured against the COPs six tier rating system and the supplier is made aware of its rating and what is required to improve via a corrective action plan.
This direct approach allows NEXT to build knowledge and understanding in local communities and monitor suppliers through its auditing process.
Human Rights NEXT is committed to upholding all basic human rights and welcomes the implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights.
Our supplier COP reflects relevant international labour conventions.
Where NEXT employees are based in countries with recognised concerns over human and labour rights, as determined by the FTSE4Good Index, all employees are specifically required to uphold the Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Core Conventions and receive annual training to ensure their understanding of those principles.
Customers NEXT is committed to offering stylish, excellent quality products to its customers, which are well made, functional, safe and are sourced in a responsible manner.
NEXT works closely with buyers, designers and suppliers to ensure NEXT products comply with all relevant legislation and its own internal standards where these are higher.
The expertise of independent safety specialists for clothing, footwear, accessories, beauty and home products is used where required.
NEXT endeavours to provide a high quality service to its customers, whether they are shopping through its stores, catalogues or website.
These different ways of shopping must be easily accessible for all customers and be responsive to their needs.
NEXT Customer Services interacts with Retail and Directory customers to resolve enquiries and issues.
Findings are recorded and the information is used by other areas of the business to review how a product or service can be improved.
23 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports
