Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Caring for the health of UAEs residents for nearly 40 years is an important responsibility that NMC takes very seriously.
Equally important is our responsibility in utilizing the resources provided by the natural environment in a sustainable manner.
Within this Corporate Social Responsibility report we focus on our responsibilities to both the environment and also the rights of individuals and the wider community with whom the Group comes into contact.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS to enable central despatch to track cardboard boxes.
NMC has put in place Protecting our Environment the whereabouts of the fleet of a collection and disposal facility for and using natural resources almost 200 vehicles.
This will enable recycling and re-use of cartons.
in a sustainable manner more efficient route planning, We recognise the importance of optimizing routes and times based NMC is fully in compliance with the environmental stewardship.
The UAE is on traffic patterns and thus help the Environment, Health and Safety EHS a country of extremes when it comes to Distribution division reduce delivery requirements of Health Authority natural resources.
Being a country with time to the benefit of customers, of Abu Dhabi HAAD, Dubai Health a significant proportion of desert, there save fuel and minimize CO emissions Authority DHA, Ministry of Health 2 is a shortage of vegetation and water.
to the benefit of the companys MOH and local city municipalities However, there is a surplus of hydrocarbon expenses and the environment in whose jurisdictions we operate resources.
As a stakeholder in the long respectively.
Regular maintenance of including for the safe disposal of term future of the UAE, NMC believes the transport fleet is also done to keep medical waste.
it should be a steward of the UAE vehicle engines running efficiently and environment, achieving a balance curtail CO emissions.
NMC provides housing facilities to a 2 between growth driven by energy significant number of its employees, consumption, while conserving resources NMC purchases large volumes usually very close to their place of that are scarce.
Some of the initiatives of medical consumables and work.
This is advantageous to both the undertaken by NMC towards the cause pharmaceuticals including gloves, employees, who save on commute of a healthy environment are: syringes, plastic bags, toilet rolls, time and cost and the company, since tablets, syrups etc which come packed our specialist doctors who are on call Delivery vehicles in NMCs Distribution in cardboard cartons.
Once the can respond to emergency patients division have been equipped with an contents are unpacked, we are left very quickly.
This results in NMC automated vehicle tracking system with large quantities of these boasting some of the best response NMC Specialty Hospital Al Ain 100 Beds US$121 Revenue per patient NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 27 Group Strategic Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED time indicators, such as Door to Greenhouse Gas Emissions The primary sources of our GHG Balloon time for primary angioplasty As a UK listed company, the Group is emissions relate to the use of fuels in cases.
Across our significant number required to report its greenhouse gas vehicles in our Distribution division and of doctors, nurses and other clinicians, GHG emissions under the Companies electricity consumption in our hospitals.
this adds up to a lot of fuel saved.
Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports We take our role as a corporate citizen Regulations 2013.
For the first time during seriously and therefore we continually Complementing the efforts in 2014, we have gathered data on the GHG review our operations and the impacts developing Environment, Health and emissions of NMC Health plc.
As this is the they have in the communities we Safety EHS policies and procedures, first year that the Company has collected operate.
As we develop new facilities and the quality teams in NMC Healthcare all of the relevant information on GHG re-design existing operations, we look for and NMCs Distribution division conduct emissions, there is no comparative data opportunities to increase the efficiency of regular audits, inspections and incident for the previous financial year.
Our data is the resources we consume and investigations, ensuring continuous set out in the table below.
minimise the level of GHG emissions.
improvement of the NMC EHS management system and processes.
We have prepared our GHG emissions RESPONSIBILITIES TO OUR EMPLOYEES, The Distribution division has received reporting in line with the GHG Protocol PATIENTS AND THE WIDER COMMUNITY the EHS certification ISO 14001:2004, developed by the World Business Council NMC Health was initiated with the motto EMS certification and OHSAS for Sustainable Development, and of affordable quality healthcare for all Occupational Health & Safety additional guidance issued by the UK and has been delivering the best medical Advisory Services certification.
Government Department for Energy, care to UAE residents since 1975.
We Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
The adhere to ethical human rights policies The implementation of e-claims for emissions have been calculated using at all levels including our employees, health insurance has significantly carbon conversion factors published by our patients and our wider stakeholders.
reduced the amount of printed paper DECC Defra in May 2014.
A conversion NMC employs without discrimination and submitted in our monthly invoices to factor for Sevoflurane was not available offers world class medical treatment insurance paying companies.
We also from DEFRA so an epa.
govghg reporting across varied specialists accessible to encourage recycling of paper used figure was used.
Conversion factors over 90% of the UAEs population.
We internally to reduce consumption applicable to the UAE for Scope 2 have welcome patients from all segments of of paper.
been obtained from the publication IEA society, nationalities and income levels.
CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion We treat over two million patients a year 2 NMC has undertaken a company-wide 2012 edition.
across five cities and four Emirates of survey and study to evaluate its the UAE.
greenhouse gas emission and energy We have applied an operational control consumption during business approach in presenting our GHG emissions, processes.
The findings of this study, and have reported on all material which has been conducted with the emission sources within scope 1 assistance of an independent third combustion of fuel and operation of party, PwC, is published below.
facilities and scope 2 purchased Commencing in 2014, this exercise will electricity and cooling.
Gas and electricity be carried out annually along with usage information has been obtained the companys initiatives to become from purchase invoices.
Vehicle fuel more efficient and a less intensive usage is based upon purchase invoices.
greenhouse gas emitter and Where NMC is not directly billed for the energy consumer.
consumption of power and therefore does not have full visibility the data, an estimation using average consumption from other similar sites has been applied.
For the 12 months to 31 December 2014 GHG emissions tonnes CO e 2 Healthcare Distribution Total Scope 1 emissions fuel use in generators and vehicles 3,687 4,634 8.321 Scope 2 emissions purchased power, including electricity and cooling 21,965 4,859 26,824 Total GHG emissions 25,652 9,493 35,145 GHG emissions intensity 9.6 25.0 0.05 tonnes tonnes tonnes CO e US$1,000 2 CO e 1,000 CO e 1,000 orders 2 2 patient Scope 1 direct emissions from fuel combustion and industrial processes.
At these sites, this takes the form of gas for heating, diesel and petrol for the fleet and diesel for generators.
Scope 2 indirect emissions from the generation of purchased electricity.
28 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements RESPONSIBILITIES TO INDIVIDUALS - All female employees over the age Diversity and discrimination Employees of 40 are offered free mammogram - Our commitment to diversity and NMCs employees are its greatest screening at all our hospitals during anti-discrimination policies are resource in serving its customers every the breast cancer awareness reflected in the profile of our day.
Some of NMCs doctors have been month every year.
As at 31 December 2014, with the organization for over three the Group had grown its employee decades and have treated different - Employees are eligible for base across all its business generations from the same family.
We discounted rates for most services operations to over 6,000 employees.
consider our employees as ambassadors within our medical facilities, and can We employed individuals of 54 of NMC and take great care in providing also take advantage of discounted different nationalities.
In addition them with a healthy, safe and positive prices for products that are distributed 41% of our workforce is female and work environment.
Benefits offered to NMC employees - NMC Health celebrates community - We have adopted an antiinclude: events and festivals and conducts discrimination policy to ensure - Free company accommodation cultural and social gatherings for its that there is no discrimination or or an accommodation allowance.
employees including Eid, Onam, harassment of any person Employees can stay in the vicinity Diwali and Christmas celebrations employed or seeking employment of their workplace and also spend as well as commemoration of on the basis of their race, colour, less time commuting.
Our patients International Nurses Day, NMC religion, gender, age or citizenship.
also benefit from arrangement Annual Day and UAE National Day as on-call doctors can be at the among many other such occasions.
- A comparison of the split of patients side within minutes in employees by gender within case of an emergency.
- NMC runs a number of fitness the different business groups events and sports clubs including and different levels within the cricket and volleyball teams.
NMC Group is set out in the following table: Gender Comparision Study 31 December 2014 Gender Percentage Facilities Categories Total Male Female Male Female Board of Directors & Senior NMC Board of Directors 12 8 4 67% 33% Management Team Senior Management Team 6 5 1 80% 20% Grand Total 6,388 3,757 2,631 59% 41% Total Corporate Office 186 143 43 77% 23% Corporate Office Corporate Management 44 39 5 89% 11% Corporate Staff 142 104 38 73% 27% Total Reliance Infotech 64 56 8 88% 13% Reliance Infotech Reliance Management 7 6 1 86% 14% Reliance Staff 57 50 7 88% 12% Total Healthcare 4,320 1,997 2,323 46% 54% Healthcare Healthcare Management 45 12 33 27% 73% Doctors 603 394 209 65% 35% Staff Nurse 1,266 218 1,048 17% 83% Technicians & Pharmacist 547 277 270 51% 49% Healthcare Others 1,859 1,096 763 59% 41% Total Distribution 1,818 1,561 257 86% 14% Distribution Distribution Management 122 109 13 89% 11% Distribution Staff 1,696 1,452 244 86% 14% Corporate Management Staff includes six Senior Management Personnel, three of whom were Executive Directors also, but excludes Non-Executive Directors.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 29 Group Strategic Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED PATIENTS of quality that permeates every Our approach to delivering high Patient base aspect of care and encourages the quality care to our patients is also NMC is one of the few large private groups employees and clinical staff to enhanced by our voluntary hospital chains in the UAE that accepts continuously strive to improve patient accreditation to quality standards patients from virtually all health insurance care and patient safety.
bodies such as Joint Commission plans, from top end plans for higher International.
Our three Specialty income groups to the lowest end Our clinical operations are monitored Hospitals are JCI accredited and plans meant for blue collar workers.
in a number of ways: it is our intention to seek JCI accreditation for our new hospital The UAE is a culturally diverse country Internal oversight facilities also.. with a significant expat resident The Group Medical Director, along population alongside Emirati nationals.
with the Quality Management Quality framework As well as treating patients from all Team and Hospital and Nursing NMC Healthcares quality framework aspects of society, our patient profile Administrators, provide internal is broadly based on the following key confirms the wide breadth of our oversight and direction to these Principles of: multi-cultural healthcare services offering.
A number - Patient safety of important hospital committees - Clinical excellence QUALITY OF CARE AND STANDARDS are in place with multidisciplinary - Current evidence based clinical Healthcare division team membership to review and practices, clinical pathways NMC Healthcare is committed to providing recommend suitable guidelines and protocols quality healthcare and aspires to be in respect of patient safety and - Clinical care monitoring regarded as the most respected and quality, medication management, - Patient experience trusted provider of healthcare services infection prevention and control, by patients, families, doctors, nurses and medical record documentation The group has placed huge emphasis other professional staff.
on patient safety as this is the basic tenet of healthcare quality.
Our business is about improving the Independent oversight health and quality of life of individuals.
To ensure that there is independent International Patient safety goals The health and safety of our patients oversight to the key area of clinical Across the Group, facilities monitor therefore is the core of our business.
governance and safety, the Board the compliance with the International created a Clinical Governance Patient Safety Standards such as Desired best clinical outcomes can only Committee which is constituted correct patient identification, improved be possible through infrastructure of the of Non-Executive Directors, the communication between care givers highest standard and care processes that majority of whom are independent and preventing patient falls.
Surgical are standardized, reliable and free of Non-Executive Directors.
In addition safety standards to prevent wrong errors.
To this end, our clinical governance to the internal and regulatory patient, wrong side and wrong surgery and quality framework, oversight and oversight which exists over our are diligently practised through right initiatives are designed to ensure the healthcare operations, we believe patient identification, surgical site highest possible international healthcare that this is a key additional control.
marking and calling of time out standards on quality of care.
Details of the work of the Clinical before every procedure.
The data on Governance Committee is set out patient safety goals is regularly Clinical Governance and Quality on pages 59 to 60. monitored and is consistently Focus on quality healthcare is matching to best international reflected in the robust clinical External oversight benchmarks.
governance and oversight structures NMC Healthcare is a regulated created for ensuring the delivery of business.
Our facilities are regulated Medication errors safe and high quality of care by the respective regulatory bodies As part of quality monitoring, consistently across the group facilities.
in the UAE of: important metrics on patient safety - Ministry of Health and quality are regularly monitored, By focusing on a patient-centred team - Health Authority of Abu Dhabi reported, analyzed and improvements approach to improve quality of care, - Dubai Health Authority made.
Standard protocols in terms of the Group has encouraged a culture - Dubai Healthcare City Authority procurement, storage and usage are % of NMC patients in 2014 Emiratis 7.7 Indian sub-continent 65.1 Asia excluding Indian sub-continent 4.5 Arab Expats 9.3 Western Expats and others 13.4 30 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements in place in terms of category of active infection control program.
reviews the patient experience medications called High Alert The result of all these is reflected in gathered through satisfaction surveys, Medications, as any errors in this area extremely low HAI rates across the feedback and complaints.
This can lead to serious patient harm.
This ensures patients feedback is used to analyze and Globally medication errors are a regular go home early after any surgery improve performance.
concern across healthcare interventions and are free from organizations.
NMC monitors them any complications.
The Way Forward and they are lower than the globally Going forward, our JCI Accreditation recorded rate of approximately 2 per Clinical excellence will certainly be a high focus area for 100 admissions.
Staff are regularly Clinical excellence, through consistent compliance on standards.
trained and oriented to standard multidisciplinary team work and based This apart, to improve the quality of protocols and best practices in on current evidence based clinical care further, NMC believes in the improving the medication safety guidelines and pathways, is the building of positive and productive such as the ordering, storage and foundation on which NMC has created relationships with clinical professionals administration of drugs.
To reduce and in developing an increased culture variation and increase standardization of quality and safety.
We believe that Infection Prevention and Control of care, clinical specialties of group to be really successful, quality has Infection prevention and control is a facilities have adopted current to be more of a cultural legacy and very high priority area for quality as evidence based clinical guidelines transformational rather than just a this could result in serious patient pathways, especially on the most transactional activity.
safety issues with adverse outcomes.
commonly treated, complex and high This activity is monitored by a team risk procedures.
This ensures patients Distribution division of multidisciplinary medical, nursing are provided the most appropriate NMCs distribution division has a number and other professionals at each and safe care.
The compliance with of pharmaceutical medical representatives facility.
Active surveillance is in place guidelines pathways is audited and medical equipment salespersons to identify any developing risks of quarterly and reported.
The key who remain in close contact with the infections.
Stringent norms and performance indicators are regularly doctors and bio-medical and monitoring tools are in place for tracked, reported and monitored for administrative teams in hospitals, environmental sanitation and improving clinical care and the medical centres and pharmacies across sterilization disinfection of equipment.
The business imports and Hand hygiene in the form of distributes essential pharmaceuticals appropriate hand wash is proved to Patient experience including controlled medicines, medical prevent the majority of the Hospital Acknowledging that every patient equipment and consumables of high Acquired Infections HAI.
Regular visit is a high stake interaction which quality and ensures they are readily education and training apart, hand patients might perceive as a positive available to healthcare institutions.
hygiene guidelines are part of an or negative experience, NMC consistently NMC Super Specialty Hospital Khalifa City 250 Beds H1 2015 Open NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 31 Group Strategic Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The Group has sufficient controls and World Heart Day September 2014 HalaBaby processes over the stocking and NMC Healthcare conducted one of the Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital has distribution of medicines.
Its warehouses largest public awareness and education initiated the HalaBaby programme for are all compliant with the relevant drives in the UAE on heart diseases educating, coaching and training of regulatory standards stipulated by the and cardiac care where almost 15,000 pregnant women.
It is aimed at preparing respective authorities.
people a significant increase on 2013 the patient for their pregnancy journey, levels received free health check-ups health education, safety and understanding RESPONSIBILITIES TO COMMUNITY comprising of Blood Pressure, Body Mass how to deal with unexpected events.
NMC Health is always at the forefront Index BMI, Blood glucose and cholesterol The initiative also includes interactive of building a healthier society and measurements.
The week-long initiative counselling sessions and group education a safer future for generations to come.
from 22 -29 September 2014 was held at with an opportunity to interact with other Community outreach programmes are selected NMC Healthcare hospitals and families as well as advice on a healthy one of the ways we contribute towards centres across Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah diet provided by a specialised nutritionist.
enhancing the health of the society and and Al Ain.
Quality medical care is always BUSINESS ETHICS a priority but we also undertake hundreds NMC Healthcare also launched a Dedicate The Group is proud of the values with of community initiatives over the year a Beat campaign which allowed users which it conducts its business activities including the NMC Health Index, blood to dedicate-a-beat on social media.
For and encourages all of its employees to donation camps, health awareness each dedication, NMC Healthcare pledged uphold these values and the highest programs, free health screenings and to offer free heart check-ups to people levels of business ethics and personal hygiene workshops among others.
integrity in all types of transactions and following section will provide a few interactions.
In this respect the Group has examples of our Community Health NMC also sent its teams to private the following policies in place which all Awareness program.
companies and government ministries to employees of the Group are subject to: perform health checks for their employees.
NMC Health Index April 2014 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics NMC Healthcare launched the UAEs first Blood Donation Camp This Code sets out how employees health index www.
ae in April NMC Healthcare organised a blood should act in a range of different 2014.
By evaluating the physical, social donation camp at NMCs Distribution areas including: and emotional aspects of the overall facilities in Al Ain on 2 August 2014 and potential conflicts of interest: health of UAE residents, NMC Health Index Abu Dhabi on 3 August 2014 as part of dealing with matters fairly as regards is aimed at strengthening NMCs efforts the birthday celebrations of Dr B. R. Shetty competitors, suppliers, customers to create a healthier society.
Executive Vice Chairman & CEO, NMC and colleagues: Health.
NMC believes that there is no maintaining confidentiality in all areas NMC Health Index gives a deeper insight greater gift than the gift of life and such of the business: of the health conditions of the residents initiatives help in spreading awareness compliance with all laws and of UAE and raises awareness about the within the community on the importance regulations: and countrys health issues.
NMC Health Index of blood donation and how even a drop of the protection and proper use of was launched at a press conference held blood can be instrumental in saving a life.
in Dubai Healthcare City with an audience comprising of over 50 journalists from varied media outlets, including major daily newspapers, TV channels, radio stations and online publications.
S S S Blood Donation Camp NMC Healthcare NMC Healthcare launched the UAEs first health World Heart Day NMC Healthcare sent teams organised a blood donation camp at NMCs index in April 2014. to perform health checks for employees.
Source: The Gulf Today 23 April 2014 Source: Khaleej Times 23 September 2014 Distribution facilities.
32 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption, Gifts Given the principal activities of the Group, The Group Strategic Report set out and Entertainment Policy NMC Healthcare employees are issued on pages 9 to 33 has been approved This Policy sets out the rules and with specific guidance in relation to by the Board and is signed on its obligations of employees in relation to: attendance at pharmaceutical conferences behalf by: and clinical training events.
Employees the offer or acceptance, or the of NMCs Distribution division are also engagement in any activity that specifically made aware, as part of their gives the appearance of accepting training activities, of the potential issues Dr B. R. Shetty or accepting, a bribe: which may arise ethically in their dealings Executive Vice Chairman & CEO the offer or acceptance of gifts or with the divisions Principals and Customers.
entertainment: prohibition of facilitation payments: The Group also has in place a any payment of charitable Whistleblowing procedure which is made contributions or political donations: and aware to all employees of the Group and the procedure for engaging any is available on the Companys Employee third parties.
All employees have been provided with a copy of these policies, as well as guidelines relating to them, and are aware of the significance of these policies to the Group.
The Company also ran a series of workshops to explain these policies to employees in more detail.
New employees receive training on all company policies and procedures as part of their induction program.
A copy of the policies is included on the Companys employee intranet.
NMC Specialty Hospital Dubai 100 Beds US$175 Revenue per patient NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 33 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements In this section: 36 Board of Directors 42 Senior Management Governance 45 Directors Report 49 Corporate Governance Report 67 Directors Remuneration Report 2014 The Board is responsible for, and committed to, ensuring that COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE procedures are in place so that good standards of corporate The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance against the governance are operated at all levels in the Group in accordance provisions of the Code.
There is only one set of Code provisions with the guidance and principles set out in the UK Corporate with which the Company has not complied with in 2014, and one Governance Code.
In this report, the Board reviews its code provision which was not complied with for a short period compliance against the UK Corporate Governance Code of the 2014 Financial Year.
This is significantly less than when published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 compared with non-compliance experienced in the first full year the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting following the Companys IPO in April 2012.
These provisions are Council website, frc.
stated and an explanation of non-compliance provided below.
The Board, supported by its Committees and the Senior Provision A.
Management team, have in place a governance and control The Company did not have a Senior Independent Director for environment which they believe is appropriate for the NMC the period from 1 January 2014 to 20 January 2014.
Jonathan Group and that would be expected of a FTSE 250 Company Bomford was appointed as Senior Independent Director on listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
21 January 2014 and continues to serve in that role.
The The Board ensures that governance processes are documented Company was therefore compliant with this provision of and implemented and, where appropriate, continue to be the Code for the majority of the 2014 financial year.
This Corporate Governance report describes how the Board appraisals and evaluation process.
Board has applied Corporate Governance principles during the Provisions B.
The Board has not 2014 financial year.
to date undertaken a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The Company therefore did not comply with provisions B.
The Board will assess a preferred process for proceeding with such an appraisal and evaluation in 2015, but given the significant change in the membership of the Board during 2014, such an evaluation was considered to be inappropriate in the year under review.
Unless otherwise stated above or in the Corporate Governance Report, the Board believes that it has been compliant with the remaining provisions of the Code for the 2014 Financial Year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 35
