Corporate social responsibility Our corporate responsibility The main way that health & safety across the business is monitored is by the Accident Frequency Rate AFR during We understand that we have a wider obligation to run our the course of our work.
The AFR is calculated as the number business in a responsible and sustainable way for all our of accidents reportable under the Reporting of Injuries, stakeholders.
We believe that supporting the communities Diseases and Dangerous Occurences Regulations 1995 in which we operate and providing a safe environment for RIDDOR per 100,000 employee hours worked.
Although our employees is integral to the overall performance of the legislation in Spain defines reportable accidents the Group.
under different rules to the UK, the data reported is in line with RIDDOR.
How we manage corporate responsibility The AFRs reported are as follows: Taking corporate responsibility and sustainability seriously is of the utmost importance to Northgate.
Sound and robust 2014 2013 health & safety and environmental HS&E arrangements and UK 1.5 1.4 risk controls therefore form a key part of the Groups overall Spain 3.4 1.7 business strategy.
Group 2.2 1.5 The Groups arrangements for HS&E governance and management systems are monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee, who have designated the Chief Executive as the Ethics person ultimately responsible for implementing best practice Northgate holds the highest levels of ethical standards throughout the Group.
and communicates this to all employees by way of the Groups Code of Business Conduct, which covers bribery, Common and consistent standards in accordance with competition, conflicts of interest, inside information, legislative and best practice requirements are applied across confidentiality, gifts and entertainment, discrimination, all Group operations.
Risks, controls and procedures are harassment and fair dealing with customers and suppliers.
continually assessed to ensure that everything is being done to meet the highest possible standards of HS&E requirements In addition, the Groups Whistleblowing Policy and using comprehensive and robust HS&E operating controls.
Procedure enables every Group employee to have a voice and a means by which they may draw concerns to our Health & safety attention.
Our approach to health & safety is simple: to ensure that no harm comes to anyone engaged with Northgate.
Our employees As a Group we value our employees because we understand We realise that excellence in health & safety can only be that they are the key resource required to deliver the high achieved if it forms part of every individuals responsibility levels of customer service that maintains our competitive within the Group.
Our Safe & Sound programme was advantage.
At 30 April 2014 we had 2,833 2013 2,714 established to create an environment of openness and employees across the Group, 1,968 in the UK 2013 1,856 awareness, where all colleagues feel able to identify and and 865 in Spain 2013 858. raise concerns about working practices and conditions.
We recognise that our employees depend on us and we The Group provides training for employees in a wide range continually work on improving their engagement and of health & safety disciplines, most of which is carried out motivation as the key to delivering high levels of customer internally by the Groups HS&E department, which in the UK service.
Our employees are rewarded through a combination is accredited by the British Safety Council.
of competitive pay and incentive programmes which During the year the Groups HS&E department carried out enable them to share in the progress towards the Groups formal audit reviews to measure performance of our HS&E objectives.
management system at all locations and where necessary The Groups policy is to recruit the best available people identified improvements and subsequently monitored who are aligned with and embody our core values of compliance.
The main objective of the HS&E department is professionalism, teamwork and can-do attitude and these to ensure continuous improvement across the Group and values apply throughout the Group regardless of seniority provide pragmatic and practical solutions to the operational of position.
risks within the business to all levels of employees with a strong focus on behavioural safety and employee involvement.
30 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
indb 30 15 07 2014 12:59 Northgate is committed to equality, judging applications We understand that communication and engagement is for employment neither by race, nationality, gender, age, critical, so we are constantly improving and evolving to disability, sexual orientation nor political bias.
ensure everyone feels part of Northgate in order to achieve company objectives.
As at 30 April 2014, the gender breakdown of the workforce across the Group was: Human rights Given the territories in which we operate and the nature Directors Male 6 Female 1 of our business no specific human rights information is Senior Managers Male 17 Female 0 contained here.
Information on equality is contained above All Employees Male 1,996 Female 837 and our corporate responsibility policy information can be found on our website www.
Investing in the training and development of our workforce not only improves the quality and standard of our service Environment delivery but enables a high level of retention and allows everyone to contribute to their full potential.
In addition, For all environmental matters our policy is to promote Northgate offer colleagues a suite of ongoing bespoke and operate processes and procedures, which, so far as is training to various disciplines throughout their career.
reasonably practicable, avoid or minimise the contamination of water, air and the ground.
We manage the waste streams During the year we have introduced a Managerial which are generated through our activities responsibly Assessment of Proficiency MAP programme for the and we aim to dispose of waste properly in ways which management population in the business.
The MAP minimise the likelihood of harming the environment.
assessment has enabled an in house management Waste is separated at source and stored until specialist development programme to be rolled out.
contractors can dispose it of in the most appropriate and effective manner.
This includes recycling and reducing In 2014 Northgate have been successful in becoming an the amount of waste being sent to landfill across our Institute of Leadership and Management ILM accredited locations.
The company continues to work closely with its centre.
ILM approved status allows Northgates own waste management partners to improve performance and internally designed training to be recognised by the continually monitors these aspects and the impacts our ILM.
ILM recognition denotes a standard of high quality, operations have on the environment.
bespoke leadership and management training.
Following the completion of the MAP assessment, we now have In both the UK and Spain, Northgate have maintained our managers attending the relevant ILM accredited the internationally recognised Environmental Standard development programme.
Northgate currently have 30 technical apprentices around During the year, we were able to recycle or recover 100% of the UK.
In 2014 28 technical apprentices achieved the level all waste streams generated and collected from our vehicle 3 technical qualification.
Following a successful proposal, repair workshops in the UK.
We were able to recycle or the Northgate technical apprentice programme is in the final recover 72% of all waste streams generated and collected short list of four companies in the Motor Transport Awards.
from our vehicle repair workshops in Spain.
In June 2014 Northgate launched its e-learning platform.
As at 30 April 2014, the UK business operated from a This allows all colleagues throughout the business to access total of 74 locations including 68 rental sites.
The Spanish e-learning modules specific to their role.
business operates from a total of 32 locations including 23 rental sites.
The vast majority of these sites are located on Regular communication and engagement with everyone industrial estates, so our activities have minimal impact on across the business is vital to our success, ensuring we all the local community.
share in our values, vision and goals.
A number of activities are undertaken across the business to achieve this and the implementation of a new internal communication strategy Greenhouse gas emissions and toolkit will enhance employee engagement, as we look This section incorporates the mandatory reporting of to maximise the use of channels available.
greenhouse gas emissions required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations Going forward an emphasis will be placed on monthly 2013 the Regulations.
briefings, face-to-face meetings and discussions between managers and their teams.
This will be supported by developments in technology and communications training.
31 Northgate plc Strategic report Annual report and Corporate social accounts 2014 responsibility c109372.
indb 31 15 07 2014 12:59 Corporate social responsibility continued Our customers and suppliers Reporting and baseline year Northgate recognises the need to support our customers The information presented covers the period from in managing a sustainable business.
This period has also been suppliers to make a fleet available to our customers designated as the baseline year for future calculations.
comprised entirely of modern vehicles, achieving the highest The emissions data presented has been derived using levels of exhaust emission standards.
In Spain we are one the operational control approach, required under the of the first businesses to offer hire of electric vehicles to our Regulations.
Each facility under operational control has customers.
been included within the figures.
Northgate has used the As at 30 April 2014 the UK fleet of 53,900 vehicles had an principles of the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and average age of 22.3 months.
The total fleet in Spain was Reporting Standard revised edition, ISO 14064-1.
37,800 vehicles with an average age of 24.3 months.
All vehicle purchases in the year ended 30 April 2014 met the Methodology latest Euro V standards.
Defras 2013 conversion factors have been used in arriving at the information supplied below.
All six greenhouse gases Our community are reported as appropriate.
We must be a responsible employer, neighbour and member of the local community and therefore operate our business Greenhouse gas emissions figures in a way that continuously improves our relationship with Tonnes of employees, customers, neighbours and the environment.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source CO e 2 The Group is a member of the British Safety Council and the Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA, which facilities 5,980 supports our commitment to corporate social responsibility.
Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 4,348 By order of the Board Intensity ratio: Tonnes of CO e per m of hire 2 revenue 23.4 D Henderson Secretary The above data has been verified by an independent, UCAS accredited, third party assessor.
24 June 2014 32 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
