Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 OUR PEOPLE Our Values WE VALUE OUR PEOPLE encourage candidates to apply directly for roles with Ocado, rather than relying on We are a business that values our people.
Were in it together third party agencies.
Keeping this process Our employer brand is paramount to our Value each person in-house enables us to bring like-minded ability to attract the best talent at the rate people into the Ocado team, is costwe need to match our pace of growth.
Our Love what we do effective and lets us reinvest these savings values are at the heart of our culture and We can be even better back into our learning and development they reflect our entrepreneurial spirit and programmes.
drive, preferring the excitement of change to the risks of standing still.
Our focus remains on attracting those with a can-do attitude who share our WE RECRUIT TALENTED PEOPLE entrepreneurial spirit and determination to Our business is built on innovation, on succeed.
finding solutions, and on delivering worldclass service.
Our recruitment team has We take pride in being recognised as one ALL EMPLOYEES been effective in meeting the significant of the top graduate recruiters, providing us 10,000 challenge of recruiting the employees with the opportunity to pick the best young 8,589 9,000 needed for our continuous growth, with professionals at the start of their career.
8,000 total employee numbers growing by 7,000 6,709 over 29% in the period.
We attract and 5,536 6,000 5,490 5,000 4,000 one of 25 people to be nominated CASE STUDY: 3,000 by employers and staff from the 3aaa 2,000 APPRENTICE OF THE Academies across England for their 1,000 hard work and dedication throughout YEAR 0 the year.
2011 2012 2013 2014 RYAN SCALES One such successful appointment was of Number of employees as at period end.
Technology Helpdesk Technician Ryan Scales.
In December 2014 he was voted Apprentice of the Year by the 3aaa Academy, beating 12,000 apprentices to take the title.
Ryan, 21, has been part of team Ocado for 16 months, and was announced the winner at a ceremony held at the House of Lords.
Ryan was 56 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com 1 DIVERSITY ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE ALL EMPLOYEES We value diversity and through our equal Every one of our employees plays a part in opportunities policy we are dedicated the Ocado story: from running our automated FEMALE 16% to creating an environment that is free warehouses, to buying our product range, 1,338 from discrimination, harassment and managing our accounts, answering customer victimisation.
Everyone at Ocado is calls, and picking and delivering shopping to treated equally regardless of age, colour, our customers doors.
In return we work hard disability, race, gender, sexual orientation, to engage our employees in our vision.
marital status, political views or religious This extends beyond keeping colleagues belief.
Applications for employment informed of the Companys performance by people with disability are always and issues that affect them day to day.
MALE fully considered, bearing in mind the 84% Through communications channels such 7,251 respective aptitudes and abilities of the as face to face briefings, rolling plasma applicant concerned and our ability to screens in communal spaces, our intranet make reasonable adjustments to the role The Grapevine and our in-house and the work environment.
In the event of magazine Juice, we deliver a variety of 2 SENIOR MANAGERS existing employees becoming disabled messages on a diverse range of stories in a all reasonable effort is made to ensure tone of voice thats relevant to our people.
that their employment within the Group FEMALE We also encourage formal two-way continues.
Training, career development 11% 1 communication through our annual employee and promotion of a disabled person is, as survey and our employee representative far as possible, identical to that of an able body, the Ocado Council, both of which bodied person.
help us identify areas where we can improve Gender diversity is encouraged but is not as an employer and encourage participation always easy to implement.
Women are and consultation in the decisions we make.
under-represented in engineering and computer science university courses, and Ocado maintains a voluntary union MALE 89% the gap is widening.
Men constitute 83% recognition agreement with USDAW, 8 of engineering graduates and 81% of which is integrated with our Ocado computer science graduates HESA data Council, to voice the views of our hourly 2006-2012, and to add to the problem paid employees.
the total number of UK computer science The Ocado Council works constructively on graduates has decreased during this DIRECTORS behalf of all our employees.
Our answer to this is to reach out interaction with Ocados senior leadership to them early our Code for Life initiative team, and is divided into business areas to FEMALE provides a fun and effective tool for 18% give every single employee representation 2 primary school children to gain the ability through an elected committee.
A small number to write code further details on page are then elected to a National Council, which 51.
We hope that developing this skill deals with matters relevant across the Group.
It in girls when they are still very young will is chaired by a Non-Executive Director, giving encourage more young women to continue employees at all levels of the Group direct with high school and university courses in access to the Board.
MALE 82% ACAS trained Council representatives The charts on the right show a breakdown 9 are consulted on matters that affect all of the number of people who were on the employees, such as new ways of working, Board, Senior Managers and employees of benefits at work, new equipment, and the Group at the end of the period.
Number of employees as at period end including We have a diverse range of employee employees in Poland.
Senior Managers means the Management Committee excluding Executive Directors.
events to sporting activities, and some of which unashamedly have no purpose other than to have fun.
57 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 OUR PEOPLE continued WE DEVELOP OUR PEOPLE DEVELOPING AN IOSH-ACCREDITED HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING Training and developing employees is a PROGRAMME vital part of enabling them to forge their career with Ocado.
Historically Ocado outsourced Health and Safety training but found it was increasingly Using talent matrix mapping we identify failing to match our organisations specific potential successors for every middle and requirements.
senior management role, placing strong emphasis on developing our talent across This year we developed and designed the business and further embedding a custom-made training health & safety appraisals as a development tool.
We now management training programme.
It gained have an in-house management training IOSH Institution of Occupational Safety curriculum including more than 300 and Health accreditation in March 2014 CASE STUDY: e-learning modules and over 30 different and IOSH now use part of this material in MEET ANNE MARIE workshops, team building days, a learning its own marketing and publications.
NEATHAM RETAINING OUR PEOPLE Developing people is exciting, but also a CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER OCADO Retaining our people is as important to challenge when growing a business as TECHNOLOGY us as developing them, particularly on fast as we are.
The biggest increase in I grew up in Ireland and took a BSc in the operational side.
Warehousing as an employees of more than 30%, was in our Computer Science in University College Cork.
industry has a high labour turnover rate, but delivery driver team.
We call them our we are working hard to manage this across I started my career in Dublin as a software Customer Service Team Members, and their our CFCs.
Initiatives range from incentive engineer with a small development job title describes how they are essential and retention schemes to healthy eating company.
I moved to Boston in the US where to the success of Ocado.
Our proprietary I worked as a software developer rolling programmes and subsidised cafes.
programme for recruiting, training and applications out to companies that had been Our ten-year service award recognises acquired in the UK, Germany and Portugal.
developing CSTMs was created by our HR those who have contributed to the Ocado department and is managed entirely in-house.
Since 2001 I have been head of different story and marks a milestone in their career.
technical development departments in OCADO DELIVERS AWARD WINNING In 2015 we will be celebrating 15 years Technology at Ocado.
It has been exciting DRIVER TRAINING service with all those who have been with to be part of something that has grown Our comprehensive eight-day training Ocado from the start.
and changed from nothing to the success programme is mandatory for all new story it is today.
CSTMs and refreshed at regular intervals.
In 2012 I became Head of Ocado It covers: Technology Poland.
It was a fantastic role, combining the setting up of a business from Health and Safety scratch in another country with managing Food Safety technical development.
In Krakow we introduced the Ocado Technology brand Manual Handling so that it would be clear that we were a serious technical proposition in the city.
Eco Safe Driving theory and practical We are viewed as a premium employer Customer Service of choice because of the solutions we develop to challenging technical issues.
Use of On-the-Job Systems Our technical team in Krakow are talented, enthusiastic and hardworking, which Its success was recognised when Neil complements the excellence of the teams in Shaw, our Head of Service Delivery the UK.
Training and Development won Road Risk Manager of the Year at the 2014 Brake At the beginning of this year I returned to the UK as Chief Operating Officer Fleet Safety Awards.
My remit includes Ocado also won the Company Driver our Polish office, Infrastructure and Ops, Safety award in our size category for our organisational development and our sharp focus on fleet safety through general management.
It is an exciting time as Ocado looks to commercialise its continuous training, communication and technology and operating knowledge.
58 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com CASE STUDY: MEET MATT ROBSON A SENIOR DEMAND MANAGER WHO HAS BEEN PART OF OCADO FOR 11 YEARS...
I joined Ocado in 2003 as a part-time CSTM whilst studying for an Automotive Ocado van wraps going the extra mile to recruit the best Engineering degree.
In addition to significantly increasing the number of employees at our existing sites, during 2014 we also opened four new spokes with between 90 and 160 new employees at each.
When I finished university I decided to stay with Ocado and move into a full-time CSTM position delivering groceries.
I was RECOGNITION AND REWARD In 2014 we replaced our historical employee number 738 in Ocados history.
programme of granting share options to all To make Ocado an employer of choice our employees with a programme to give free comprehensive employee benefits package I spent two years as a CSTM: being out shares equivalent to 1% of basic pay to all includes a choice of pension schemes with on my own in the van taught me to be employees with six months or more service.
employer contribution, life assurance, private organised.
From there, I moved to the Our intention is for this to repeat annually.
medical insurance, critical illness cover and Contact Centre, where there were lots an employee assistance programme.
There of opportunities to develop and I soon STRATEGIC REPORT is also a range of traditional benefits and moved into a supervisory role.
Many of The Companys Strategic report is set out industry-leading 15% employee discount on my colleagues from that time remain in the on pages 2 to 59. all shopping with Ocado.
Approved by the Board and signed on its We have a commitment to ensuring that all I was promoted again to Supply Chain behalf by employees share in the Groups success.
where I still work today as a Senior Employees are able to buy Ocado shares Demand Manager, heading up a large with pre-tax income, and we have a Save team maintaining the availability of Neill Abrams As You Earn scheme that allows employees thousands of grocery products, whilst Legal & Business Affairs Director and to save up to buy Ocado shares at a precontinuing to keep our wastage at Company Secretary set price.
We look after the Ocado Group plc inbound service for our entire supply base 3 February 2015 over 1,000 suppliers and growing maintaining close links with our retail and operational teams.
View more information online at www.
com 59 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 GREAT SERVICE We provide industry leading service in terms of timeliness and order accuracy... our customers regularly commented on the outstanding service provided by our Customer Service Team Members.
60 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 OUR GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 62 64 Chairmans Overview 66 Statement of Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report 74 Nomination Committee Report 80 Directors Report 82 View our Chairmans Statement on page 6 View more information online at www.
