Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As online pioneers, Corporate responsibility has undergone For every employee to be engaged weve already helped some major developments during the period with our CR strategy, aspirations and to change the way of this report, the details of which follow intentions people shop for below.
Ensure we are a well-run, responsible, groceries: now we want THE OCADO WAY sustainable business to change the world too, From the beginning, Ocado has been Where we believe there is an opportunity a little bit at a time.
passionate about minimising environmental to use our position and expertise for impacts, and as our activities and good, to step up and take it.
responsibilities have grown, we have Building on work undertaken to date, our responded with our strategy.
new 2020 vision The Ocado Way Our new 2020 Vision The Ocado Way has four strategic pillars: Education, is underpinned by three guiding principles Entrepreneurship, Environment and Eating that we aspire to: View more information online at Well, focusing on areas where we can www.
THE OCADO WAY STRATEGIC PILLARS EATING WELL ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENVIRONMENT EDUCATION EDUCATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENVIRONMENT EATING WELL 50 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com EDUCATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP Ocados success stems from cutting edge Ocado began life 15 years ago as a technology.
We see a significant opportunity small start up with an entrepreneurial spirit, with Code for Life to play a role in promoting passion and enthusiasm.
While we have technology, and our Road Safety programme significantly grown in the last 15 years, a aims to raise awareness of large vehicles great deal of the early days still stays with with children and young people.
us and we are keen to use our example and our influence as a platform for change CODE FOR LIFE inspiring the next generation of students, Ocado.
com is the worlds largest online-only entrepreneurs and small British businesses.
Customers use our awardBRITAINS NEXT TOP SUPPLIER winning mobile applications and website Building on our proud entrepreneurial history, to place their orders, which are packed in Britains Next Top Supplier supports new, our world-class automated warehouses, and CASE STUDY: up and coming suppliers by running an delivered in one-hour time slots.
annual competition aimed at suppliers and EDUCATION & CODE Under the surface is a dynamic technology producers looking to take the next step business, Ocado Technology, that has FOR LIFE towards commercialising their product.
the look, feel and culture of an innovative September saw the launch of Ocado In 2015 our Chairman, Lord Rose, and software start-up developing all the Technologys Code for Life initiative, which Chef Tom Kerridge, will again both sit software that powers the Ocado.
com and sets out to provide primary school children on the judging panel for the competition Morrisons.
with the ability to write code.
Aimed alongside Ocado buyers aimed at We believe the ability for children to code at primary school teachers in England, finding that next new product.
will in future years become as important the free teaching resource called Rapid as literacy and maths are today.
With that The 2014 winner, Hiver Beers, won the Router will complement the Key Stage in in mind, we developed Code for Life, an opportunity to be stocked at Ocado as well as Computing.
initiative to help support primary school a 10,000 marketing package to promote Rapid Router offers a number of coding teachers deliver the new computer science the product and sales are going well for the tools including games, detailed lesson curriculum.
We are keen to lend our small, niche brewery following this opportunity.
plans for pupils learning Key Stage 1 support to a programme that will enable children aged 57 years and lower every child in the country to flourish in an blog.
com 2014 01 06 bnts Key Stage 2 children aged 79, increasingly digital world, armed with unplugged educational activity and coding coding survival skills.
videos including Ocado Technology Our Road Safety programme is in the early programmers.
stages of implementation, and we look In less than 4 months, Code for Life has forward to sharing more in future years.
been adopted by more than 13,500 users and over 300 schools are using the tools!
education 51 Britains Next Top Supplier, 2014 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Over the period, our emissions increased compared to the previous year, as set out ENVIRONMENT in the table below.
During 2013 14, the Group has significantly increased the We aim to be the UKs volume of orders for both Ocado.
com and greenest, most innovative During the period, we partnered with The Morrisons.
com, an increase of 26.7% and best value grocery Carbon Trust to help us re-evaluate our compared to the previous year.
We continue retailer by providing a strategic direction for carbon and waste.
to make efficiency gains from the increasing A revised, more targeted strategy is being more environmentally orders at our CFCs and the opening of drafted, taking into account our rapidly efficient alternative to additional spokes which result in shorter growing business and ever changing traditional supermarkets.
van journeys, combined with continuous industry.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  LLP has carried We have measured our greenhouse gas out a limited assurance engagement in emissions for many years, but it was in the accordance with International Standard previous period, 2 December 2012 to on Assurance Engagements 3410 1 December 2013, that we formally Assurance engagements on greenhouse reported a baseline against which we now gas statements ISAE 3410, issued by track our reductions and efficiencies.
the International Auditing and Assurance Our leading edge, Standards Board.
A copy of the limited The Groups reported emissions have been in-house routing system assurance report is available in the Our prepared and calculated with reference makes over 3 million Responsibilities section of the Companys to environmental reporting guidelines corporate website.
routing calculations per 2014, issued by Defra and using second, finding the most conversion factors published by DECC View more information online at efficient delivery routes.
com our data and preparation can be found on our website.
View more information online at www.
com GHG EMISSIONS CO e 2 GHG EMISSIONS TONNES CO E 2 TONNES 2012 13 2013 14 Scope 1 Direct 39,530 50,198 Scope 2 Indirect 21,613 26,493 Total Emissions 61,143 76,691 ELECTRICITY Intensity measures: 26,494 Tonnes CO e 1,000 orders 8.23 8.15 2 The baseline for last year has been slightly adjusted upwards from the data in last years report, due to actuals replacing estimates.
DIESEL 45,039 GAS 613 REFRIGERANTS 801 DRY ICE 3,744 52 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com Our largest carbon contributions still Recycling and reuse of carrier bags is well come from the fuel used in the vehicles understood by customers, who work with used to transport orders and the electricity us and other retailers to help reduce the consumption used at our CFCs and spokes.
environmental impact of carrier bag use.
The reporting period covered by the We believe we remain the only retailer On average, customers emissions data is the same as the financial to take both our own, and other retailers return more than 65% of year, being the 52 weeks ended carrier bags, and recycle them back into all carrier bags and we 30 November 2014. carrier bags.
then recycle them back into carrier bags to be Our third generation delivery van continues GREEN VAN SLOTS used again.
to operate on the premise of maximising We offer further carbon reductions through the potential payload whilst having the the green van slots on our time slot lowest environmental impact possible.
The idea is simple if we are delivering in an area at a particular We reduce the environmental impact of the time, we can advise at the time of booking, vans by 1 increasing fuel efficiency, 2 enabling customers to choose an adjacent improving routing and reducing distance time slot thereby minimising drive time travelled, and 3 increasing deliveries per and fuel use for deliveries.
Our leading edge, in-house routing system enables us to minimise road WASTE mileage and take full advantage of the Our waste volumes Our waste volumes remain at low levels payload available by making over 3 million compared to the industry and where remain at low levels routing calculations per second, finding possible we find ways to re-use any food.
compared to the the most efficient delivery routes.
Working industry and where with our body constructor Paneltex for many Food close to its use by date goes to our possible we find ways to years, we have increased the payload of our food bank partners, some to Company re-use any food.
3.5 tonnes sprinter van fleet by 41%.
We Shop Limited, and in turn on to Community also operate FleetBoard in all our trunking Shop, and finally to a number of animal fleet, a driver management tool optimising parks we also support.
We are exploring equivalent options in the van fleet.
CLOSED LOOP RECYCLING Ocado collects both our own and other retailers carrier bags from our customers.
On average, customers return more than 65% of all carrier bags and we then recycle them back into carrier bags to be used again.
This all takes place within the UK, rather than being sent overseas minimising carbon emissions from transportation.
53 Donate Food with Ocado Ocados virtual food bank allowing online customers to donate food to charitable causes 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued to facilitate those choices, combined with recipes, and dietary and nutritional EATING WELL information.
CASE STUDY: EATING We are also working hard to play our part WELL AND REDUCING in reducing food poverty in the UK.
Key to our Eating Well pillar, is a plan FOOD WASTE to support the role of food in health and This year, we launched a Donate Food with nutrition and help reduce food poverty in SOUTHEND VINEYARD STOREHOUSE Ocado option for customers they select the UK.
a donation while doing their shop, and Ocado has a well-established and we match the contribution with groceries.
long-standing partnership with Southend We believe that by offering the biggest This idea was based on feedback from our Vineyard Storehouse, a busy centre which range of nutritional choices, including the customers.
Southend Vineyard, as our longhelps thousands of poor, homeless and largest selection of nutritionally free from standing food bank partner see case study, vulnerable people each year, issuing 500 products in the UK, and ensuring there is the primary recipient for the time being, food parcels to people in crisis every week.
are always at least 100 fresh fruit and but we expect to broaden this to other food vegetables on promotion at any one time, For five years, volunteers from The banks across the UK.
we can contribute to the broader agenda Storehouse, have collected food still within of healthy eating and sound nutritional use by date for their food bank and choices.
This is about informed choices community caf.
and offering the widest possible selection The food bank sees on average 150 people every day and the caf can feed anywhere in the region of 200 each day it opens its doors, showing people with very difficult lives some warmth, kindness and respect as they receive food which they could not otherwise afford.
The relationship we have with Ocado is hugely important to us at The Storehouse.
Weekly collections from Ocado underpin our food programme, helping us to feed thousands of disadvantaged people affected by the recession as well as many homeless and vulnerable people.
It is no exaggeration to say that without Ocado we would not be able to provide food for the 90 families and over 500 individuals who depend on our service every week.
Ocado is truly our partner in Reaching Out and Changing Lives, and the Storehouse team is indebted to every Ocado team member who helps make the partnership happen.
Thank you on behalf of every Storehouse volunteer and every single person who has ever received an emergency food parcel.
John Williams, The Storehouse, Southend Vineyard View more information online at www.
com 54 54 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com TWYCROSS ZOO In more recent years, since the opening of CFC2 in Dordon, we have grown our relationship with Twycross Zoo.
More than 1,200 kg of fruit and vegetables are donated to Twycross Zoo weekly, feeding the animals with food unfit for human consumption but still perfectly edible for the residents of the zoo.
We plan to continue both this and other partnerships in our efforts to avoid sending food waste to landfill.
COMMUNITY AND CHARITABLE GIVING During the period, our employees voted for Macmillan as Charity of the Year for the fourth year.
Fundraising throughout the Twycross Zoo year has included a summer ball, football tournament, cake bakes and a host of sponsored activities across the country.
This PEAS ONE DAY year, employees have raised more than Ocado has been a supporter of the 65,000, bringing the total to date to organisation Peace One Day for a number Give PEAS a Chance 190,000. of years.
Unlike in previous years, this year Since our partnership began four we chose to involve our customers and years ago staff have thrown themselves during the period leading up to the annual into running, cycling, holding coffee Peace Day 21 Sept, 20p from every pack mornings, quizzes, balls, barbeques, of frozen peas was donated to the charity.
football matches and much more.
From We were delighted to raise 13,350 for this company-wide effort were thrilled that Peace One Days campaign.
to date our partnership has raised nearly Through our continued partnership with 200,000 and is raising vital awareness Waitrose, we made donations to the of Macmillan.
Waitrose Foundation, totalling 53,000 during the Waitrose financial year The Ocado staff are incredible and 2013 14.
This was from sales of fruit and we cant thank them enough for their vegetables: and also in the same period, continued support and for helping us to we made a donation of over 159,000 ensure no one has to face cancer alone.
to the Prince of Waless Charitable Claire Singlehurst, Director of Regional Foundation, through sales of Duchy Fundraising, Macmillan branded products.
We get approached by many charities, No political donations were made by the schools, sports and community groups Group to any political party, organisation throughout the year asking for charitable or candidate during the period 2013: nil.
Whilst we are unable to assist every request, we try where we can and Ocado is committed to the upholding and during the period have donated almost respect of human rights.
We expect our 25,000 to small, often local, events and suppliers to operate in a fair and honest activities.
way towards their employees and with whom they do business.
