Corporate responsibility Ophir strives to achieve an appropriate balance between profitable operations and ethical practice by demonstrating a commitment to social and environmental responsibility.
Ophirs commitment to providing a sustainable contribution to both stakeholders and communities where we operate.
Ophir is committed to sustainable development.
Our approach to Corporate Responsibility CR underpins the way we do business.
We strive to conduct our operations in an ethical, responsible, apolitical, independent andtransparent manner at all times.
We recognise that CR is key to how wesupport our employees and the communities in which we operate.
We have a genuine commitment to the management of health, safety, security, environmental issues, community development projects and conducting our business ethically.
Corporate Responsibility underscores the principle that exploring for oil and gas responsibly, to the highest international standards, isparamount.
Ophir is continually looking to evaluate and improve our CR policies and procedures.
Both the UN Global Compact, the Principles for Responsible Investment and International Association of Oil and Gas Producers OGP have been sources of guidance.
38 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance This reviews the five areas of Ophirs Corporate Responsibility practices: 1 Environment Ophir has a responsibility to respect and to protect the environment in which it operates.
The Company endeavours to meet all applicable legal and industry best standards in managing environmental risks.
Ultimately, our goal is to minimise the environmental impact of our operations.
2 Health, Safety and Security Ophir strives to achieve the highest standards in Health, Safety and Security: ensuring that everyone working for the Company does so ina safe and healthy environment.
3 Community Projects Ophir is committed to responsible business practices and seeks tosupport local communities through sustainable projects aimed atempowerment, capacity building and improving education.
4 Business Ethics Acting with honesty and integrity is crucial to the long-term success of our business.
The Company requires all those working for us to uphold the highest professional standards and to abide by all applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws, both international and local.
We encourage the empowerment of staff and do not tolerate discrimination, bullying or harassment.
5 Our People and Our Values Ophir rewards performance and offers a progressive working environment and development opportunities for its employees.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Corporate responsibility continued Emission sources CO tonnes 2 O ce Electricity 345 Diesel Onshore 335 Diesel O shore 56,404 Flaring 5,460 Flights 3,503 Emissions data Environment Ophir seeks to encourage energy efficiency best practices in all itsactivities and to minimise greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Protecting and maintaining the environment is paramount at all of Theemissions figures are provided as an absolute total figure of ouroperations and we are constantly seeking ways to minimise the estimated CO production for the Companys worldwide activities.
2 environmental impact of operations, reduce waste, conserve resources and respect biodiversity.
Ophir complies with all applicable legal This is the second year emissions data are reported for the Company.
standards in managing environmental risks.
Total emissions during 2014 were estimated at 66,046 tonnes of CO. 2 This compares to 15,138 tonnes CO in 2013.
The increase in emissions 2 Environment highlights in2014 compared with that of 2013 is due to the completion of our first In the planning stages, prior to commencing operational activities, ever flare testing and the drilling of eight wells in 2014 versus two in 2013.
Ophir follows a conventional set of rigorous legal and industry best practice procedures to assess every potential environmental risk.
As an oil and gas explorer, most of the Companys emissions are Following the risk assessment, effective mitigation measures are then produced by third-party contracted services with respect to our designed and implemented.
For example, prior to acquiring seismic operated exploration activity: primarily drill ships, seismic vessels and offshore in Gabon this year, we conducted an extensive programme service boats working offshore.
The majority of GHG emissions come oflocal stakeholder meetings with neighbouring fishing communities, from the fuel used in offshore operations and, to a far lesser extent, informing and educating those potentially affected by the seismic passenger air travel during the two drilling campaigns totalling eight planning and operational activities.
operated wells across Equatorial Guinea, Tanzania and Gabon in 2014.
Office emissions are a minor contributor.
The emissions data These local environment engagement processes are part of Ophirs isreported as an applicable intensity ratio, by using the number Company-wide HSE policy, whereby before initiating any exploration ofoperated wells as the key metric and therefore on this basis the project, in addition to engaging with local stakeholders, we conduct estimated emissions were 8,255 tonnes per operated well drilled comprehensive and integrated Environmental Impact Assessments in2014 2013: 7,659 tonnes per operated well.
These EIAs are routinely scrutinised by local governmental agencies and NGOs before finally gaining approvals, all before work Emissions data is collected from every location where we operate.
We repeat these assessments at each stage of the project using Where actual, measured data is not available, estimates are made.
qualified consultants and professional services.
All aspects of our The measuring system is defined in the Ophir Health and Safety environmental performance are monitored during operations and Environmental Management System HSEMS.
then finally, after the operations are completed, the findings are Reporting criteria: reported back to local agencies to ensure transparency and compliance.
Office energy Calculated average annual electricity use from actual invoices for all office locations Ground transport For Africa office locations, collected data for actual fuel used for office vehicles Exploration For our offshore operations calculated diesel use rate which includes drilling rigs, helicopter support, seismic vessels and various PSVs service boats covering the operations period for each country with activities in 2014 Air transport Estimated total number of long haul passenger flights in 2014, booked and paid for by Ophir Energy Marine Mammal Observers on board the seismic vessel in Gabonese waters.
includes employees and contractors 40 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee page 61 Health and Safety Security Health and safety is a priority for Ophir.
All operations are carried We have operated in several challenging environments in both East and outin accordance with applicable local and international health West Africa during 2014 and our assessments have evaluated the andsafety best practices.
various possible physical risks our personnel and assets could be exposed to during our operations.
Our security personnel have supported our Strict health and safety procedures are applied to all aspects of our activities during the past year and in Tanzania we used local naval operations, from simple everyday office activities to highly complex personnel to provide protection and response capability to our offshore subsea technical drilling risk assessments, vessel operations and drilling operation.
There were no security incidents during 2014. emergency response planning.
All employees and contractors have aduty to ensure their activities are compliant with the rules and standards that apply.
It is part of our duty of care to ensure our subcontractors and suppliers provide a safe and healthy working environment for their employees and to provide appropriate training, support and protective equipment.
To confirm compliance with the appropriate health and safety practices subcontractors and suppliers are subject to regular checks.
Ophirs Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to reviews these standards, and is responsible for monitoring health, safety, security and environmental HSSE practices.
The Committee is also responsible for planning appropriate independent HSE audits across the range of our activities to assess our progress.
Corporate Responsibility team developments In 2014 the Corporate Responsibility management with respect to health and safety continued to evolve.
All employees and contractors are expected to abide by our Corporate Responsibility standards.
Ophir continued to concentrate its health and safety focus on those areas with the highest risk.
In 2014 that meant targeting the drilling programmes in Gabon, Equatorial Guinea and Tanzania.
Each drilling project was provided with full time, on and offshore, HSE professionals to ensure HSE compliance.
Health and safety highlights During 2014 Ophirs employees and contractors recorded only one LTIresulting from a minor injury offshore.
There were no other significant recordable incidents during the year.
In early 2014, prior to contracting the drilling company engaged to carry out the West Africa drilling campaign in Gabon and Equatorial Guinea, Ophir carried out extensive health and safety assessments, audits and held integration sessions with the service company personnel to ensure health and safety alignment and compliance Tanzanian military personnel working alongside before and during the drilling campaign.
Ophir security for the 2014 drilling campaigns.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Corporate responsibility continued Community Projects As an international Oil and Gas operator it is abundantly clear that Ophir has a responsibility towards the communities where we operate.
These responsibilities include aiding the development of the economic and social conditions of local communities.
This year we have focused on improving access to education primary and vocational and on water and supporting health initiatives through donations.
When selecting projects, Ophir adopts a collaborative approach, conducting varied stakeholder engagement and needs assessments in order to identify projects that most positively contribute to the requirements of the local communities.
Community development highlights In 2014 we set two corporate Key Performance Indicators KPIs inline with community development: 1.
A t least one project to be started or ongoing in each of our key operational assets.
The completion of two projects or phases in separate countries.
Our asset managers performance was judged against these KPIs which reinforced our positive commitment to the initiation and completion of community projects in our operated countries of Tanzania, Seychelles, Kenya, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon.
To continue this progression we conducted a gap analysis of our current approach to community development.
This highlighted a need for greater corporate governance and a more strategic approach to the selection and implementation of projects.
We have reviewed the International Financial Corporation IFC guidance to help us more closely align our strategy for community development with our core business and to concentrate our efforts on sustainable projects that have a greater and longer lasting benefit to the communities in which we operate.
School children from Lilungu Primary school justbefore their dance performance at the handover ceremony inOctober 2014.
42 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance The way forward for 2015: strategic Community Development Long and short term planning Measurable Invest in process Strengthen strategy Communication Quality not and stakeholder quantity engagement 2014 Community projects by location Upon commencing operations in the Seychelles in April, Ophir began engaging with several local stakeholders to identify a project to support alongside our seismic campaign.
Ophir has funded the provision of two minivans for one occupational hospital in the south of the country and one in the north.
In Tanzania, we have completed the two phase re-development project of Lilungu Primary School in Mtwara.
An opening ceremony was held to celebrate the completion of the project, which is having an extremely positive impact on the school children and the local surrounding communities, to which the Company is closely affiliated.
Ophir will continue to support both Lilungu Primary School and the wider Mtwara region throughout 2015.
In Equatorial Guinea, we have completed two community projects: the re-development of fide Ovang Okas primary school in the district of Mongomo, along with the construction of a water well which will service the school and the surrounding community.
Additionally we have continued our support for the school re-development programme by providing the school with desks and furniture.
Elsewhere in Equatorial Guinea we have provided funding for the National Technical Institute, which provides valuable training and development for the localcommunities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Corporate responsibility continued In Kenya, following a needs assessment in Kilifi County, Ophir has completed the renovation work for Rima Ra Primary School, including Completing the redevelopment of school furniture and four toilets.
The construction work was carried Lilungu School, Mtwara, Tanzania out by local contractors.
Phase 1 and 2 of the project came to completion in In Gabon, Ophir sponsored the training of 10 Gabonese students October 2014. tobecome Marine Mammal Observers MMO.
Following the successful training course, the MMOs have gone on to complete The school now has five new and 11 renovated classrooms theirBasic Offshore Survival Training and their Offshore Oil and andone new and three renovated offices.
Water has been GasMedical Training in preparation for working offshore.
Plans are connected to existing toilet facilities and a new large toilet facility underway to begin several community development projects in has been constructed: the first of its kind in a school in Mtwara.
Gabon in 2015, including working with NGOs to provide further Access to water has been improved further by the drilling of training for Gabonesenationals.
aborehole and construction of a 50,000 litre water storage tank.
We have supplied the classrooms with 240, and planted For the first time, in 2014 Ophir has provided two scholarships to trees for the school grounds and improved the sports field.
Tanzanian students on the four-year undergraduate petroleum Tocontinue our support for the school and community Ophir degree course at the University of Dar Es Salaam.
We have also will be contributing towards the schools operating costs for sponsored two Petroleum Geoscience Masters students in London, 2015, covering utility costs and stationery.
offered several internship opportunities throughout the year to students or early graduates, and have implemented our first Early Career Development Programme, recruiting one candidate into our Geoscience team.
Charitable giving This year our London office has launched Ophirs first Staff Charity Fund in support of The Egmont Trust.
The Egmont Trust has a number of projects helping families in Tanzania affected by HIV and AIDs.
The fund has been set up to allow employees to make collaborative donations to the charity and the Company has agreed to match the total.
Business Ethics Ophir must comply with all applicable local, national and international laws and regulations in all locations in which we operate.
This is crucial to both the commercial success and the reputation of the business.
Everyone who works for us plays a key part in this.
All employees are accountable for the way they conduct themselves in the course of theirwork.
Managers have additional responsibility to set the tone andfoster best practices within their teams.
We recognise our obligations under international and local anticorruption laws, as well as the increased global scrutiny in this area.
Vivien Gibney meeting students at Lilungu Primary School during the handover ceremony in October 2014.
44 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance The prevention, detection and reporting of bribery and corruption is Respect for human rights the responsibility of all those working for Ophir, who are expected to: Ophir respects and supports the human rights of all people, including all those who work for us as well as the communities throughout the world understand their responsibilities and act with fairness, which may be affected by our operations.
We recognise that we have honesty and integrity at all times a responsibility to uphold these fundamental rights wherever we can.
comply with all anti-corruption laws and regulations, no matter where they are working.
This includes, but is not limited to, Equality and diversity the UK Bribery Act 2010 Ophir has a stated policy as part of its Global Code of Conduct to avoid doing anything which even gives the appearance of deal fairly and equitably with all of its employees and business partners.
 laws, as this can damage our reputation This is a commitment to extend equal employment opportunities report any suspicions of bribery, including requests for to all, irrespective of race, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender bribes, immediately.
reassignment, religion or belief, age, nationality, ethnic or national origin, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy and maternity, We have taken steps to implement a compliance programme, to or disability.
This policy seeks to promote an environment of inclusiveness assist in preventing or detecting any corrupt practices.
The Board of where everyone can prosper and grow and be recognised based on Directors has overall responsibility for this and receives regular reports.
meritocracy supported by appropriate training and development.
An area of current focus is the development and roll-out of an As at 31 December 2014 the organisation has one female Director improved online system for internally conducting due diligence representing 12.5% of the Board this figure has since risen to 22% of onthird parties with whom we do business, This not only assists the Board, 23% of the senior executives are female and throughout us inidentifying risks presented but also captures the analysis the organisation, the female proportion of our workforce is 37%.
of those risks as well as approval decisions at management level.
Our People and Our Values Ophirs key values Integrity honest and ethical Ophir continues to build an experienced, resourceful, international employee base and our talented individuals are at the heart of Dynamism positive, energised and innovative our success.
We provide exciting opportunities and challenges for Excellence for people and our partners our people to stretch and develop them in their roles.
This culture allows us to successfully attract and retain the best in our industry.
Grounded down-to-earth, never arrogant Our annual performance review process is an opportunity for quality Collaborative work in partnership feedback conversations to take place and for individual performance to be aligned with corporate performance.
We are committed to encouraging local talent within the countries This Strategic Report was approved by we have offices and operations and we work in partnership with the Board and signed on its behalf recognised institutions to support their development.
Nick Cooper In addition, Ophir expects all of our people including contractors, Chief Executive Officer consultants, interns and students to demonstrate the values in their 18 March 2015 daily working lives.
The Company has six key values which underpin our business and are present in all of our activities.
