Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder Corporate Responsibility CR is a fundamental principle of how Lyndon Powell, Corporate Responsibility we do business, and whilst the Board clearly recognises that its Committee Chairman main mission is to maximise shareholder value, it is very much aware that CR underpins all its activities.
It has tasked the CR Committee to oversee the development and implementation of Membership and attendance CR systems and procedures, that are of the highest international The members of the Committee, all of whom are independent safety, environmental and ethical standards, and complement Non-Executive Directors, together with details of their individual the Companys strategic vision and business objectives.
attendance at meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2014 has seen the CR Committee continue to evolve to fulfil 2014, are set out below: Meeting this task.
Our aim is to be the key platform to avoid or mitigate Committee members attendance operational risks.
Last year, I reported that an external Lyndon Powell Committee Chairman 3 3 evaluation of the CR Committee recommended an increase Bill Schrader 3 3 in the Committees responsibilities, and that the merits of Alan Booth 3 3 establishing an Operational Risk Committee should be Vivien Gibney 3 3 examined.
A thorough review concluded that the newly adopted John Lander resigned from the Committee on leaving the Board on 28 February 2014. responsibilities of the CR Committee negated the requirement No Committee meetings were held in the year before his retirement from the Board.
for a separate Operational Risk Committee, and these risks would be best managed within the CR Committee.
To assist this function, a number of policies were subsequently revised The Company Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating to reinforce our risk mitigation procedures, and an enhanced Officer have an open invitation to attend all Committee meetings risk matrix created.
The matrix is considered at each CR meeting as guests.
In addition, the Companys Director of HR, Corporate and operational risks are highlighted as appropriate to the Responsibility Manager and the Director of Corporate Services are Audit Committee and the Board.
The CR Committees Terms invited to attend each meeting to present their reports to the of Reference have been revisedaccordingly.
Other senior members of staff and external advisors may be invited to attend asnecessary.
This year has been Ophirs most operationally demanding with two simultaneous offshore drilling campaigns and a number of seismic surveys completed.
Great care has been taken in establishing and maintaining robust Health, Safety and Environment HSE systems in all areas of operations, and prior to any activity, Risk Assessments and Environmental Impact Assessments EIA were completed.
The safe management of HSE is a fundamental core value and is non-negotiable: we continue to place the safety of our employees and the protection of the environment at the forefront of our planning.
I am pleased to report that 2014 has been another Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee continued successful year with no significant HSE or security incidents, Last year I reported the implementation of a global travel tracking and the Committee remains fully committed to achieving an system which continually tracks the flights and locations of employees equally good result going forward.
It has been especially useful this year in West Africa, where careful route selection assisted in minimising the potential exposure A key focus this year has been monitoring changes to policies to of transiting staff to Ebola.
Management are complimented for their make them Oil & Gas Producers OGP compliant, and ensuring proactive and diligent approach to the Ebola crisis, with their sound the ongoing HSE training continues apace, which has included avoidance planning, and the provision of medical advice to employees.
a number of specific crisis management training periods.
2014 also saw Ophir reinforce its uncompromising approach to bribery As part of our Corporate Responsibility, Ophir gives particular and corruption, by the introduction of two new policies, the Committee emphasis to community development projects: we see proactive sponsored anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies to the Board which engagement with the local communities not only as a priority in were subsequently approved and distributed.
I can also confirm that mitigating any potential impact of our activities, but very much the Company is compliant with its reporting on GHG Greenhouse a key constituent for future success.
We endeavour to ensure that Gas emissions.
the required community development projects match the needs of During the year, the Committee decreased by one following the the local communities as well as providing them with opportunities.
retirement of John Lander from the Board on 28 February 2014.
This year, particular emphasis has been paid in maintaining the Following the appointment of Bill Higgs as Chief Operating Officer to tempo of projects, which has resulted in the successful completion the Board in September 2014, he has been invited to attend all future of renovations to a school in Tanzania, the provision of a water well meetings of the CR Committee.
We welcome Bill and are extremely and reconstruction of a primary school in Equatorial Guinea, and pleased that he will be attending the Committees meetings in future.
a school building project in Kenya.
These projects not only make Bills broad experience of the Oil & Gas industry will further strengthen substantial improvements to the educational prospects of the the role and responsibilities of the CR Committee.
local community, but when coupled with our wider activities of CR, such as the sponsoring of undergraduates on Petroleum courses in Looking forward, a key focus for the Committee in 2015 will be Tanzania, have the potential to make Ophir the partner of choice.
around HSE implications for the Company following the acquisition This year Ophir has initiated its first Staff Charity Fund, in support of Salamander Energy plc.
of The Egmont Trust charity, which is in addition to making several Lyndon Powell donations to charities and not for profit organisations across our Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman operational areas.
In recognition of CR value, an additional KPI has been included for 2015, which is to carry out at least one 18 March 2015 community project over and above the PSC obligations.
Role and responsibilities of the Corporate its respective Terms of Reference to take account of these  additional responsibilities.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the effectiveness It was previously reported that consideration would be given to the of the Groups policies and systems for managing health and merits of creating an Operational Risk Committee in 2014.
The safety, the environment, security, community projects and decision was taken to not set up a separate committee and instead business ethics, including human rights and matters relating the monitoring of operational risk is to be overseen by the Committee.
to equality and diversity and non-financial risks across the Groups operations.
Following recommendations from The Committees revised full Terms of Reference are available on the the 2013 Committee evaluation, the Committee in 2014 Companys website at www.
com about-us boardadopted increased levels of responsibilities and has revised committees .
62 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Corporate Responsibility Committee activities Community Projects: A revised Corporate Responsibility policy During 2014, significant progress was made by the CR Committee statement has been approved and implemented during 2014.
At each covering many areas.
The main activities of the Committee included meeting of the Committee, it reviews the status and future direction the following: of Community Project work.
The Committee recognises the significant benefits which can result in having a successful Community Project Health and Safety: 2014 was an extremely busy year for the strategy: however, it is also careful to consider the risks associated Company with two simultaneous offshore drilling operations in with these projects.
All projects are reviewed to check they are suitable, West and East Africa.
The Committee validated the initiative to effective, and safely managed.
This is to ensure that the HSE increase HSE resources on the ground in the project areas, standards expected of the Companys operations equally apply to particularly in relation to drilling projects.
The Health and Safety the management of its Community Projects.
The pace of Community statistics from those operations were very positive with only one Projects is increasing: the Company had four Community Projects LTI recorded resulting from a hand injury.
The Committee is pleased underway during 2014, one of which is complete Tanzania, with two with these positive results, and views them as a sound indication nearing completion Equatorial Guinea and Kenya.
The Committee that the safety systems in place are working effectively.
However, also endorsed the Companys sponsorship of two Tanzanian students the Committee proposed that the Company should place greater to enrol in the four year undergraduate Petroleum Engineering emphasis in the future on measuring leading in addition to lagging degree at the University of Dar Es Salaam and sponsorship for two HSE indicators.
This will add valuable data in accident prevention UK students in the Petroleum Geoscience MSc at Royal Holloway.
During 2014, the Committee endorsed an increased In 2015 the Committee will continue to monitor improvements to the training roll-out with focus on Hazard Identification processes, oil Community Project strategy.
For further information relating to these spill response and Crisis and Emergency Management procedures, successful projects, please refer to pages 42 to 44 of the Corporate from on scene training right up to corporate response training.
Committee also reviewed and approved changes to the Companys Further reviews carried out by the Committee in 2014 included: HSE Policy.
Previously, the Policy addressed mainly HSE matters.
HSE key performance indicators: Following its revision, it has been expanded to include two parts: Routine HSE training for the Board, all employees and contractors: Part 1 Health, Safety and Security Policy, and Part 2 Environment Auditing of contractors HSE systems prior to engagement: and Climate Change.
Finally, with regards to health and safety, the Reports on HSE incidents within the Company, including a particular Committee carefully considered the Ebola crisis in West Africa and focus on lost time injuries and the results of any investigations: and how it may affect the Companys operations, particularly in HSE and CR external communications.
Contingency plans were reviewed in case the crisis directly impacted the Companys operational activities.
In 2015 the Committee will analyse the results of an HSE Gap Analysis Environment: The Committee can report that during the execution carried out by the Company in late 2014.
One objective of this analysis is of the Companys operations in 2014 there were no significant, to ensure Ophirs Corporate Responsibility objectives are optimally set up reportable environmental incidents.
During the year we received to address any potential new mergers or acquisitions.
regular status reports and confirmed that prior to the commencement of any operational phase all necessary environmental permits and Further information on the Companys approach to corporate impact assessments were complete andcompliant.
responsibility and HSE matters can be found in the Corporate Security & Risk: The security risks and plans for each operation are Responsibility Report on pages 38 to 45. examined to ensure suitable risk mitigation is in place.
This year, Greenhouse gas emissions we reviewed and incorporated an updated risk assessment and risk Reducing energy consumption and associated emissions of matrix format.
Further to its Terms of Reference, the Committee has greenhouse gases remains a priority of the Company.
A breakdown reviewed the Companys Risk Register pertaining to operational risk of the Groups energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas at every meeting during the reporting period.
There have been no emissions during 2014 is set out on page 40. reported security incidents in2014.
