com Corporate Responsibility Oxford Instruments brand and reputation is one of its We arecommitted to key assets.
As aleading supplier of high technology tools and systems weset ourselves the highest standards of integrity, personal conduct, and fairness.
the following guiding We believe that it is important for a sustainable business principles ofcorporate to focus on the needs of employees, customers and other stakeholders through shared goals and trusted relationships.
responsibility: While the Group is accountable to our Shareholders, we take into account the interest of all our stakeholders, To establish and maintain long term, effective including our employees, ourcustomers and our suppliers, as well as the local communities andenvironments in which  we operate.
To offer all our people an excellent Our stakeholders employmentexperience Investors To strengthen our business through Diversity In line with stock exchange and other relevant andInclusion requirements, the Group ensures that investors receive To operate in an ethical, sustainable and regular and transparent communications on all matters  that are material to an understanding of the performance and future prospects of the organisation.
It aims to protect investors funds and manage risks appropriately.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director allocate a significant proportion of their time to investor meetings, and host regular site visits for both analysts and investors.
In 2014, investors made over 20 visits to sites in the UK and Germany.
The Investor pages of Oxford Instruments website Our Values provide a comprehensive overview of the business www.
Customers The Group believes that effective customer relationships are built on mutual trust, respect and integrity, and that this principle should govern all aspects of the business.
Weseek to be honest and fair in our relationships and provide the standards of product and service that are expected.
Inclusive Innovative and We also take all reasonable steps to ensure focus on the progressive We listen and engage safety and quality of our products and services.
withcustomers, colleagues, We bring skill, experience and The continued focus on the Voice of the Customer Shareholders and partners for openness to new ideas to address inany new product introduction or current product mutual success the needs of the 21st Century development ensures that the customer needs are at the core of our business.
The success of new products introduced in 2013 14 supports this focus.
The percentage of revenue that is made up of products launched or acquired in the last three years is a key indicator of the vitality of our new product development and was at 42% for the financial year 2013 14.
Externally, the Group makes extensive use of social media Trusted Wholehearted platforms to keep all stakeholders, including the media, upto date and informed of news, product launches and We build long term We approach what we events.
The Group websites are mobile responsive.
relationships based on integrity, dowith passion, with care trust and respect andwith pace 24 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Employees Our highly skilled employees are key to our continued growth and success.
We aim to provide careers, opportunities and working environments in which our people can achieve their potential.
We do this through safe, modern working environments: recognition of the value of culture and diversity: managing and developing talent: employee incentive and engagement activities: and regular, informative, two-way communication.
Learning and development Training and development Developing talent is important to Oxford Instruments Claire Flint, Group HR Director asthe quality of our high technology products and services depends on the skills and expertise of our workforce.
Dawn Brooks, Group Service Director Wecontinue to recruit and invest in apprentice, trainee and graduate programmes to help meet our future technical and management requirements.
In 2013 14 we delivered 540 days of training on our Graduate, Management Our Diversity Champion is Dawn Brooks, Group Service Development and Senior Leadership programmes.
In 2013 14, Dawn has been responsible for leading Maximising Potential programme has been initiated in a full programme of diversity and inclusion awareness and 2014, focused on high potential technical and people engagement sessions to all parts of the business.
We have leaders at all levels in the business.
embedded diversity and cross cultural awareness in our Diversity and inclusion Group-wide development programmes, fostering a shared We believe diversity promotes innovation and effective understanding of our position and ambitions in regard decision making.
The Groups aim is to ensure there are todeveloping our diverse global talent pool.
The Group equal opportunities for all employees and that we create has aproud track record of encouraging flexible working.
an inclusive culture where differences are valued and On11 June 2013 Jennifer Allerton, our first female people are given the environment in which they can do Boardmember, joined the Board of Oxford Instruments their best work.
Decisions regarding recruitment, selection asa Non-Executive Director.
The Board recognise the and access to training and promotion are based on merit.
benefits that a diverse Board offers the Group.
Selection, promotion and succession planning processes Our Management Board, which is responsible for ensure that we recruit, train and promote the best candidates delivering the Groups strategy, consists of eight male based on suitability for the job.
Our Code of Conduct and Directors and two female Directors.
Oxford Instruments is Ethics requires that all employees are treated fairly and no actively engaged with the BIS Women on Boards initiative.
one suffers harassment or intimidation.
We wish to continue our focus on developing an organisation which mirrors the diversity of our customers and employees globally.
Our aim over the next two years will be that at the end of that time, each level of Executive Management reflects approximately the same gender balance as exists inthe Company overall.
Highly qualified and talented workforce Workforce gender diversity Board 14% 86% 54% Mgmt Board 20% 80% with higher level Managers qualifications 15% 85% Employees 22% 78% Higher level Basic Female Male Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 25 www.
com Corporate Responsibility continued Local communities Learning and development continued Communication We encourage our local businesses to support their communities through charity and community activities.
We recognise that information about business strategy and performance and regular opportunities for a two way The Group also sponsors a number of international dialogue with employees are important.
We have a regular andnational science based awards and events including communications programme that informs all employees the prestigious Sir Martin Wood Prize through the onstrategy: divisional and Group business performance: Millennium Science Forum in Japan.
A new award operational changes and initiatives: and examples of best recognising young nanotechnology scientists is to be practice and success stories.
Employees access our intranet launched in India during 2014. to obtain this and other general information on the Group, Ethics and we make use of video, blogs and company meetings where appropriate.
We invite feedback and suggestions We work ethically, openly, responsibly and inclusively.
We strive for maximum transparency: do not tolerate any form of bribery, corruption or fraud and do not make Our most recent Group-wide employee engagement survey political donations.
We have in place a Business Conduct was conducted in September 2012 and feedback and action and Ethics Code which all employees are made aware of at plans were formed with input from staff across the business.
the time of joining the Company and through subsequent Our next survey will be conducted inSeptember 2014. exposure on the Company intranet and corporate website.
Threeto four months after any acquisition, we conduct ashort pulse survey to monitor and benchmark employee We have a zero tolerance attitude towards bribery engagement and allow us tochart progress as integration andcorruption and perform regular due diligence on our advances.
Such a survey was conducted in Andor agents, distributors and suppliers to minimise the risk of Technology in April 2014, witha70% response rate.
Reward and recognition Suppliers are required to prove they do not employ workers under the age of 15 or, in those countries subject to the The Group believes it is important that our highly skilled developing country exception of the ILO Convention 138, and educated workforce receive a share in the success to employ no children under the age of 14. ofthe business.
In addition to the regular management bonus and sales commission schemes, we operate a Gain Share scheme for all non-management employees.
This plan is linked to achievement of our strategy and aligns employees interest with that of ourShareholders.
Ensuring safety across the Group In addition, through our Extra Intranet site, we offer employees extra benefits such as discounts on certain localactivities, merchandise, insurance, and health Total -33% anddental cover.
Total accidents have reduced to Employees are encouraged to suggest ways to improve 109 109 during the year a 33% performance and efficiency.
Local reward and recognition reduction on the previous year.
schemes exist to support this.
The annual Chairmans Awards recognise innovation in four categories: Technical, Operational Excellence, Customer Focus and Brand.
Entries Globally for the ninth awards competition this year were double that -20% of the previous year.
Teams from our recent acquisitions, Globally there were four serious Andor and Asylum Research, were among the winners.
4 accidents reported during the year a 20% reduction on the Suppliers partners 1 previous year.
The Group works hard to establish trust, respect and mutually beneficial relations with its business partners, including suppliers, banks and collaborative associates.
Between -50% There is a Group supplier management process in place 201011 which promotes a common supply chain strategy split by 4 1 Global serious accidents Accidents were reduced by 50% commodity, driving the business towards fewer high level were normalised using from 217 to 109, which reflect suppliers.
Regular inspections and audits are conducted theUK definition of over the increased focus on these seven days absence and strategic reviews are in place for key suppliers.
accordance with ISO9001 and ISO 14001, only quality approved organisations are used.
26 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Our Code is supported by a range of policies which Summary areregularly monitored by the Board and updated and We will maintain the focus on corporate social added to whenever necessary.
Each policy gives detailed responsibility in the way we run Oxford Instruments.
information on how to manage sensitive issues once an Wewill continue to meet our customer needs through assessment of risk has been identified.
This includes a advanced technology and premium service, and we global business malpractice policy.
willmaintain a wholehearted commitment to all our stakeholders to conduct our business in an ethical Health, safety and environment andsustainable manner.
Health and safety within Oxford Instruments is managed at the Executive level by Charles Holroyd, Group Business Development Director.
Each site has a nominated Health, Safety and Environment Manager or representative Jonathan Flint responsible for ensuring that day-to-day activities are Chief Executive carried out safely.
All sites are audited annually.
10 June 2014 Our priorities are the efficient use of energy and waste minimisation, and we seek to continuously improve these areas.
Each business has an Energy Champion responsible for the day-to-day issues of environmental compliance and energy management.
This includes the monitoring of energy use, waste streams, recycling and emissions to air, water and land.
The Group complies with all relevant legislation in countries where we operate including European Directives such as the Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment Greenhouse gas GHG emissions WEEE Directive, the Restriction on use of Hazardous Oxford Instruments is a global business with operations in many parts of the Substances RoHS Directive and the Registration, world and has been monitoring energy use and carbon emissions since 2008.
Evaluation, Authorisation of Chemicals REACh Directive.
Emissions from 26 of the Companys sites are reported on below.
Small sales Oxford Instruments plc is a full participant in the UK offices where energy consumption is less than 0.01% of the Groups total Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme energy consumption are omitted.
The amount of recorded hydrofluorocarbons and purchases carbon allowances to cover its UK energy isbelow 5kg globally and has therefore been omitted from the figures.
Emissions This year our global carbon emissions are reported as Emissions from purchased electricity, emissions from fuel burned on site for separate indicators required as part of the UK Companies heating or process purposes gas and oil and fugitive emissions from process Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors reports Regulations gases are reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e. 2 2013.
In addition to the mandatory reporting of greenhouse Purchased Secondary Fugitive gases, the Company will make a voluntary report to the Region electricity fuel emission Total Carbon Disclosure Project CDP on our emissions.
The CDP is an international, not-for-profit organisation providing UK 3,556 350 3,906 the only global system for companies to measure, disclose, North America 3,716 450 1,056 5,222 manage and share environmental information.
Europe 454 78 532 Oxford Instruments, where possible, also measures Asia 243 243 energy equivalent consumption of employee air travel.
Over 2013 UK and USA air travel equated to 2,545 tCO e. Total 7,969 878 1,056 9,903 2 The global consumption of energy during the year fell Intensity ratio by 8.1% as a percentage of revenues from the prior year.
The Companys declared intensity ratio is tonnes of CO equivalent tCO e per A contributing factor was the relocation of business and 2 2 million of revenue.
office functions to new, modern, energy efficient facilities in Finland, Japan and China.
In accordance with our Energy and Environmental 9,903 tCO e 27.50 tCO e 2 Policies the business is committed to improving its 2 efficiency in relation to energy use and we are investing 360.1 million inenergy reducing technologies such as upgrading to million revenue LEDlighting.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 27
