Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report Corporate responsibility As we continue to extend our portfolio of products andservices, we are also keeping our environmental and social impacts firmly to a minimum  Methodology The Company prepares the Annual Responsible Business Report and in 2014 independent We have reduced average power R reviewand assurance with regards to the content of the report was provided by Rhead Group consumption by more than 50% from inaccordance with the principles set out in AA1000 Accountability principles standard 2008.
180.5kWh yr 2007 to 88.57 kWh yr 2014, Thereport covers the following areas: environment, products, facilities, supply chain, community, achieving our long-term objective and people.
Average CO emissions per STB have R 2 Responsible Business Reportwww.
com reduced to 47.47 kg CO 2014 from 47.99 kg 2 CO 2013 2 The average weight of materials within a Pace R Greenhouse gases mandatory reporting STB has reduced for the fifth successive year The Company has used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to 1.436 kg STB 2014 from 1.499 kg revised edition, and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for STB 2013 Company Reporting 2014.
Again for the fifth successive year, the average R The Company has reported on the Scope 1 andScope 2 emission sources required under weight of packaging cardboard and polythene theCompanies Act 2006 Strategic Report andDirectors Reports Regulations 2013. used per STB has also been reduced to Thesesources fall within our consolidated financial statement.
In 2014, we can report a 3.9% reduction R intotal product energy consumption and Results corresponding CO emissions down to 923 2 The table below reports the total greenhouse gas emissions by emission type.
2013: 960.87 Global GHG Emissions Pace DOCSIS 3.0 Cable Gateway Achieves R Worlds First ENERGY STAR 1.0 Certification Tonnes of CO e: Period Tonnes of CO e: period 2 2 1January 2014 1January 2013 Pace has further improved its overall score R Emissions from: 31December 2014 31December2013 inthe Carbon Disclosure Project CDP by 3% Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation to 94% 2013: 91% offacilities 654 683 We have established a provisional baseline R Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling forenergy consumption and CO emissions 2 purchased for own use 7,417 6,669 associated with our Home Gateway HG products, something we hope to learn and Companys chosen intensity measurement: build upon so that we continually improve our 1.
Emissions reported above normalised 0.339 tonnes CO 0.216 tonnes CO 2 2 environmental performance, just as we have topertonne of product tonne product tonneproduct with our STB product range over the years 2.
Emissions reported above normalised 3.08 tonnes CO 2.978 tonnes CO 2 2 toannual turnover annual turnover annualturnover Water consumption across the Group R 3 3.
E missions reported above normalised 0.418 kg CO product 0.368 kg CO product hasreduced by 4.66% to 34,009m 2 2 3 toproduct set-top box set-top box set-top box 2013:35,669m Scope 2 emissions increase as a result of the Aurora Networks acquisition.
The Pace Responsible Business Report isavailable online at: www.
com universal responsible-business Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Objectives and targets During the year, the Company set its own responsible business targets and achieved the following outcomes against itschosenmeasures: Focus area Target Status Drive product energy efficiency improvement.
Environment: product R All applicable products designed in 2014 to exceed a score of 80% during Paces Achieved 1% DesignForEnvironment DFE programme.
Seek to reduce product emissions by 2%.
Reduction performance R Gateways Networked Products R Develop DFE scorecard for Gateway Networked products and include in Paces DFE.
Achieved R Establish a baseline power figure for Gateway standby.
Achieved R All applicable Pace products to adhere to Network standby regulation.
Achieved Drive CO performance improvement.
Environment: 2 site operations R Rebase line overall CO performance in light of recent acquisitions.
Achieved 2 R Achieve a 2% reduction in CO Scope 1 and 2 compared to 2013 by December 2015.
Ongoing 2 Increase Paces EMS footprint to include key operations.
Environment: management R Integrate recent acquisition of Aurora into Paces environmental management system.
Ongoing system footprint R Increase Paces environmental management system footprint to include Pace Brazil Not achieved andPaceAmericas San Jose operations.
R Maintain ISO 14001 in current certified Pace sites ensuring no major non-conformances.
Achieved Assess and prioritise our supply base sustainability performance.
Supply chain: performance R Develop a strategy that targets improvement in key risk supply vendors Achieved assessment  supply-based assessment conducted by Ecovadis.
R Focus on understanding our data and metrics in order to make informed decisions.
Ongoing Employees: employee R Collect and report on key metrics e. g. internal promotions vs. external hires, looking involvement atourdiversity data in relation to the communities we operate in with a focus on gender.
R Develop an action plan to promote the career development of women in the workplace Achieved andengineering.
R Continue to take actions as a result of our engagement survey feedback and our focus Achieved oninternal communications.
R Continue community programmes focused on education.
Achieved Community: community R Develop a more robust framework for community activities including accurate reporting, Ongoing engagement volunteering and leadership accountability.
24 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 12.9% 22.3% 33.3% Total Senior Board management workforce diversity diversity diversity 66.7% 87.1% 77.7% Female Directors 2 Female senior managers 12 Female employees 441 Male Directors 4 Male senior managers 81 Male employees 1,538 Pace has continued as sponsor of the Ahead ofour global customer base.
We operate in Environment Partnerships education strand of business 18countries, employing c. 2,100 people and The Company has maintained certification engagement in the UKs West Yorkshire region.
working with customers andsuppliers from tothe international management standard This three-year commitment has enabled the abroad range ofbackgrounds and cultures.
ISO14001 at its Saltaire, Boca Raton, Ahead Partnership to develop and rollout their Bangalore, Paris, Tempe and San Antonio The charts above show the gender split Make the Grade business education partnership sites and the Group Environmental Policy atdifferent levels within the Group, as at model in West Yorkshire.
hasbeen applied to all Pace sites worldwide.
In addition, Pace has partnered with Teach The Company is a signatory to the European Firstto support the science, technology, Health and safety code of conduct on Energy Efficiency of Digital engineering and maths STEM teachers in TV service systems EU code of conduct, Energy Each SBU in the Group has an established Yorkshire and the Humber.
Pace will fund the Star Program requirements for STBs and MEPS Health and Safety Committee made up ofhealth provision of personal development coaches to Minimum Energy Performance Standard.
Pace and safety representatives, the designated Teach First participants in their second year of is committed to ensuring that all products are health and safety officer and other persons teaching.
Teach First recruits, trains and supports designed to minimise energy consumption with expert knowledge who review health and teachers working in schools inlow income through its Design for Environment programme.
safety issues relevant to the Groups business.
communities to raise the achievement, aspirations Other safety-related committees also conduct and access toopportunity of children from low Supply chain periodic reviews of specific work practices.
The Company has continued its work with its These actions complement the UK Governments suppliers in 2014 through the Electronic Industry Health, Work, Wellbeing HWW initiative Employment policies Citizenship Coalition EICC and also implemented which has been adopted and implemented The Directors recognise the importance of the a programme to ensure full-scale adoption of the bythe Company.
Groups employees to its success and future EICC Code of Practice throughout its supply chain.
development and are committed to providing an Part of the HWW incorporates return towork The Company has continued its work with environment that will attract, motivate and reward programmes and the Groups operations in EcoVadis to ensure complete evaluation high-quality employees.
The Group continues Saltaire, Pace West and Pace East, France, transparency and drive continuous to invest in a range of internal and external Brazil and India have adopted similar policies.
improvement of its supply chains CSR initiatives to promote employee development.
Each division incorporates, where appropriate, performance, culminating in a new set their ergonomic risk assessments.
Employees are kept informed of matters affecting ofsupply chain objectives and targets.
them as employees and factors affecting the Pace West undertakes earthquake training performance of the Group through regular and Pace East undertakes hurricane training.
Charitable and community support employee meetings briefings and regular All of these initiatives are backed up by appropriate The Group has an established Charitable written news briefings are distributed risk assessments.
Tool-box talks, short Donations Committee comprising employees electronically.
presentations on specific aspects of health and based at the Groups premises in the UK and safety, are also published onthe Groups intranet the USA.
The Committee considers all requests Diversity and inclusion and shared between different parts of the Group.
for charitable andcommunity project assistance The Group welcomes applications for employment from employees within a financial budget and Human rights from all sectors of thecommunity and promotes criteria approved by the Board onanannual basis.
equality ofopportunity in employment regardless The Group does not have a specific human The Groups support through the Committee is of age, gender, sexual orientation, disability or rights policy at present, but does apply human focused on the local geographical area of Paces ethnic origin.
It is the Groups policy that training, rights considerations to theway it does business, premises inthe UK, France, India and the USA career development and promotion opportunities for example, through our practices in relation aswell as the charitable and community should be available to all employees.
In the to equal pay, the right to form and join trade initiatives of Group employees.
event that an employee becomes disabled, unions, and our health and safety, supplier theGroup makes reasonable adjustments andanti-corruption policies.
The Group will During the year, requests for assistance where any aspect of premises or working continue to review whether a specific human satisfying the above criteria received financial practices puts such a disabled employee rights policy is needed in the future over support amounting to $117,766 in total.
atasubstantial disadvantage compared andabove our existing policies.
The participation of employees of theGroup in withanon-disabled employee.
Pace West is represented by the 2Wire businesses, community and charitable activities outside work andPace East is predominantly our office We believe that diversity is an essential part hours has been encouraged by the provision of inBocaRaton, Florida.
ofhow we do business and we meet the needs funds tomatch individual sponsorship raised.
Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25
