56 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Social innovation Extending access to quality education to the poorest and Commercial solutions might involve new business models, most marginalised families is a challenge, particularly in investing in new technology, or testing innovative the most deprived countries of the world.
Pearson is partnerships or distribution channels.
committed to playing our part and is active in helping Social innovation in practice the Pearson Affordable shape and inform the global debate around education learning Fund and learning policy.
We represent the private sector and charitable foundations on the board of the The Fund launched in 2012 with $15 million of capital.
Global Partnership for Education GPE.
Along with Itsupports education for students from the poorest representatives from developing countries and donor and most marginalised families, and sets improvements governments, the GPE aims to strengthen education in learning outcomes and market-based returns as systems in developing countries.
We also continue to conditions of continued investment.
The Fund has already champion the role of the private sector in education invested in innovative education start-ups in South Africa, as a founder member of the Global Business Coalition Ghana, India, and the Philippines.
Half of the Fund is for Education.
currently invested in companies with female CEOs.
Learn more about these activities at: In January 2015 we announced a new $50 million investment, through which we expect to reach millions www.
org ofadditional students and young people by 2020. www.
org In addition by providing financial backing, good governance, and operational support to education Key to our social innovation approach is our belief that entrepreneurs the Fund aims to foster and scale commercial solutions can accelerate access to quality innovation throughout Africa, Asia and Latin America.
Uncovering, developing and scaling solutions, Itis also enabling innovation from which governments especially in places where education standards fall can learn: the cost per student in the schools in the Fund well behind the best in the world, can require us to portfolio is generally lower than in government schools.
challenge the way we think about our business.
Pearson Affordable learning Fund PAlF In December 2013 the Pearson Affordable training, and helping to appoint a new board Learning Fund made a $300,000 investment and implement a new governance structure.
Founded in 2010, Avanti helps The results thus far have been extremely to prepare students from low-income impressive over 40% of Avantis students backgrounds in India those with an annual placed in the top 1% on the IIT JEE examination family income of $5,000 or below for college in 2013 and 2014, with 100% placing in the top entrance exams, focusing on the highly 20%.
The IIT entrance exam is considered the competitive career paths of engineering and worlds most competitive, with over 500,000 medicine.
Avantis approach emphasises peer students taking the exam each year for a learning, which takes the form of small group university system with only 10,000 annual work, and concept tests.
Avanti costs are less than 25% of those investment, we have supported Avanti by traditional classes, with students charged only reviewing their curriculum and content, teacher $30 per month.
