Strategic report - Group Sustainability report The drive for sustainability underpins every aspect of Pennons long-term environmental, social and economic strategy.
As one of the largest environmental and resource management groups in the UK, the Group is committed to responsible business and operational practices, minimising its impact on the environment and having a positive effect on the communities it serves.
South West Water provides high quality drinking water, together with effective waste water treatment for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset.
Viridor is one of the leading UK recycling, renewable energy and waste management businesses.
2013 14 achievements South West Water 17 consecutive years without Improved customer service One of the first water water restrictions: a reduction in score and customer companies to introduce a interruptions: industry-leading satisfaction levels social tariff leakage control: top quality Increased renewable energy Largest ever customer drinking water technology solar PV and engagement programme Best bathing water quality results hydro power generation carried out in support of the for seven years Business Plan to 2020.
Further delivery of sustainable catchment schemes under Upstream Thinking programme Viridor Two star rating achieved in the Growing contribution to UK 13.3 million provided by Business in the Community resource efficiency and 292 Viridor for environmental, Corporate Responsibility Index million further investment in amenity and community 2014 recycling and recovery projects across the UK via the infrastructure Landfill Communities Fund.
Overall recycling volumes 301 projects supported.
broadly maintained, with a Continued sector leadership sharp focus on quality with 152 sites accredited to leadership in recyclates traded ISO50001 standard Six closed landfill sites have now attained the Wildlife Trusts Biodiversity Benchmark 36 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 We are pleased to report our performance against our strategic sustainability objectives and KPIs.
Objective: Objective: Manage Pennon Group as a sustainable Aim to ensure that all our business activities have and successful business for the benefit of a positive economic, social and environmental shareholders and other stakeholders.
impact on the communities in which we operate.
As a well-managed and responsible Group, with Pennon recognises it has a responsibility to contribute sustainability driving its business strategy and at the positively towards communities affected by our core of its operations, we aim to deliver strong operations.
performance and lasting value for all our stakeholders.
In addition to investing in a high quality water and Our services and methods of operation are designed waste management service, we create local to provide clear community benefits and to protect employment, use local supply chains, provide financial and enhance the environment.
support to community projects and enhance the In addition to our long-term investment performance, environment.
Pennon was pleased to have sustained its 2013 score Pennon Group and its subsidiaries support 4.2 out of 5 in the FTSE4Good Index communities and charities within their operational Environmental, Social and Governance ratings areas and Viridor continues to provide substantial assessment.
funding to environmental and community projects via the Landfill Communities Fund.
Viridor and South West Water also both fundraise for their preferred charities: WaterAid, the Cystic Fibrosis Trust and Trees for Cities.
The charitable donations amount allocated by each committee post October 2013 is included in the figure given in the Community support, sponsorship & donations bar charts for each company.
1 Restated for IAS 19 Revised www.
co. uk 2014 37 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Strategic report - Group Sustainability report Continued Objective: Aim to ensure that all our business activities have a positive economic, social and environmental impact on the communities in which we operate.
Economic impact economy, in addition to the 1,400 engineers, designed to use small specialist companies South West Water technicians, scientists, office staff and other based in the region alongside larger contract The major investment South West Water has skilled professionals in direct employment.
Through its supplier forum and other made in water and waste water services since company has a growing apprenticeship cross-company initiatives South West Water privatisation has helped support regional scheme and is committed to support for continues to encourage and promote a culture economic growth.
Key business sectors such education.
In 2013 14 this has included of innovation and sharing of ideas.
The as agriculture and tourism have directly playing a key role in the development of a new company also has stringent procurement benefited from the companys efforts to Devon-based University Technical College policies in place to ensure that supply chain increase environmental protection for example UTC, which is set to open in 2015. partners adhere to a shared vision of in areas such as bathing water quality, and sustainable working practices and corporate the company continues to be one of the In 2013 14 approximately 100 million of order responsibility.
largest private employers and users of third value was placed with companies with a south party suppliers and contractors in the region.
At the start of the current regulatory period South West Water adopted a Recent studies show that South West Water mixed economy supply chain model, supports more than 4,000 jobs in the regional Viridor operatives have been employed on-site each in the overall 36 billion planned investment in month.
35 permanent skilled roles are being UK infrastructure, are being delivered by Viridors investment programme totalling 1.5 created for which recruitment is underway.
billion in recycling and energy from waste In addition 17.5 million has been placed with Viridors developing sustainable procurement facilities includes 292 million of capital local companies for materials, plant hire and policy and practice will further enhance the investment in growth projects in 2013 14 and sub-contracted work and the local economy overall environmental and social benefits continues to create significant direct and has benefited from an estimated additional 2 across the companys supply chain.
indirect employment and training million to date.
Viridor currently has seven ERF opportunities, including construction jobs and construction projects in progress.
Viridors infrastructure projects were listed by For example Viridors Trident Park ERF the UK Government as contributors to Britains construction project in central Cardiff is long-term plan for economic growth.
A quarter generating jobs and investment in the capital of the 20 waste management projects, listed city and the wider region.
Latest statistics show that in 2013 14 an average of 565 38 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Social impact Viridor on education initiatives.
In particular in programme of sponsorship and 2013 14 it has supported Science, support for projects and events in local Through its integrated contracts and Technology, Engineering and Maths communities.
The company was major projects, Viridor is able to STEM and environmental education pleased to provide 178,000 of direct demonstrate clear community benefits initiatives.
These include the Scottish community sponsorship and charitable across the UK.
For example in Glasgow flagship educational partnership with funding in 2013 14.
Viridor continues to deliver education, the Engineering Development Trust, training and local capacity building as Viridor continues to provide funding to GO4SET Go for Science, Engineering an integral service element in addition a broad range of amenity, community and Technology.
to core recycling and waste and environmental improvements management services required under a Viridor continues to operate or support projects across the UK via the Landfill 25-year waste contract.
Similarly, a full 10 education centres across the UK, Communities Fund.
In 2013 14 Viridor and ongoing assessment of community helping to promote better provided 13.3 million, supporting a benefits is conducted for its major understanding and best practice in total of 301 projects.
It is estimated that infrastructure construction projects.
these projects benefited some 218,000 These centres welcomed 14,000 people.
Funding is distributed via Viridor Recognising that improved awareness visitors from schools, colleges and Credits, an independent Environmental and perceptions of recycling, waste community groups during the year.
and resource management issues within businesses and households is The company encourages employees vitally important in driving further the to get involved in a wide and inspiring UKs recycling and recovery rates, and range of community projects in its in attracting talent into the sector, areas of operation.
This includes Viridor continues to focus its proactive match-funding of employee fundcommunity sponsorship programmes raising efforts as well as a wide real terms by 2020. the employee volunteering programme.
South West Water The company also continued to Recognising that affordability is one of South West Water seeks to have a promote and support the health and its customers key concerns, South positive impact on the communities it recreation opportunities available at West Water has continued to develop serves.
This includes the steps it takes reservoir sites across the region, its range of affordability initiatives, to minimise the disruption or including those managed on its behalf partnering with consumer organisations disturbance caused by construction by South West Lakes Trust.
such as the Citizens Advice Bureau activities for example the repair or and Age UK to provide advice and replacement of sections of water and In addition to its apprenticeship support.
In 2013 a successful scheme, South West Water continued example of this was the handling of a to support education through the In 2013 the company was among the major water mains replacement provision of talks and materials to local first in the industry to launch a social scheme in Newton Poppleford, Devon.
schools, work experience, placements tariff and a pilot scheme was launched This generated positive local press and giving lectures at the regional alongside local social housing providers coverage.
to offer targeted assistance to low income tenants.
South West Water has Beach cleans and habitat management also frozen prices for 2014 15 and were among the activities carried out pledged to reduce bills by up to 13% in by South West Water staff as part of Case study Case study Stepps Park, Glasgow, a popular park in Stepps, near Glasgow, has been Meeth Quarry, a man-made quarry, has been given transformed due to the efforts of the Friends of Stepps Park.
over to wildlife indefinitely due to an award of Consultation with regular park users informed the design of the park, with 590,000 from Viridor Credits.
The award enabled a strong emphasis on inclusion of all members of the community.
An Devon Wildlife Trust to purchase the site with the aim award of 101,000 from Viridor Credits helped towards new play of protecting the ecology of the site as well as equipment, seating, access and drainage.
opening it up to the public for the first time.
co. uk 2014 39 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Strategic report - Group Sustainability report Continued Environmental impact A similar philosophy is at the heart of South and the number of harmful pollution incidents South West Water West Waters new Downstream Thinking Categories 1 and 2.
While this is In recent years South West Water has programme, which is designed to help tackle disappointing, this years performance should adopted a holistic approach to protecting the waste water issues such as sewer flooding be seen in the context of changes in the environment.
Alongside investment in the and pollution through ecologically sensitive scope of reporting and the steps South West maintenance and improvement of its soft engineering schemes, Sustainable Urban Water has taken to increase its capacity to infrastructure, this includes work to identify Drainage schemes SuDs, habitat monitor, identify and self-report pollution and pioneer ecologically sensitive sustainable management and the targeting of incidents when they occur.
solutions, often in partnership with other misconnections.
In 2013 14 the company regional agencies and organisations.
With regard to its carbon footprint, South West carried out planning activity ahead of the Water successfully met its target of keeping In 2013 14 the company continued its roll-out of the first pilot scheme in Cornwall in emissions at a level lower than that of the award-winning Upstream Thinking the 2014 15 financial year.
baseline position at the start of the current programme of catchment management, The regions bathing water quality reached its investment period.
The company also which is designed to improve natural water highest standard in seven years with 99.3% expanded its use of renewable energy.
This quality and water storage in the landscape.
meeting or exceeding the minimum EU included two hydro generation schemes and In early 2014 a study by Exeter University standard and 91% meeting the tighter EU the installation of a solar panel array at the recognised the significant progress made by guideline standard.
South West Water companys Exeter-based headquarters its the Exmoor Mires Project part of the wider remains committed to investing in the largest solar installation to date.
Upstream Thinking programme, noting how maintenance and improvement of its waste the peat bog restoration is successfully water treatment assets and networks in order improving water quality while also improving to meet existing and emerging legislation.
Additional environmental includes the revised Bathing Waters Directive benefits of such work include reduced which comes into force in 2015. enhanced biodiversity, with several of the Compared with the previous year, 2013 saw a restored sites now recognised as habitats for rise in the total number of pollution incidents rare species of bird and insect life.
The project is also reducing flood risk.
Biodiversity Action Plans on key sites, to now attained the Wildlife Trusts Biodiversity Viridor enhance habitats and species of national Benchmark standard.
The next stage of Viridor is responsible for the management and importance.
roll-out is to start working on three additional stewardship of substantial landholdings, sites in 2014.
This maintains Viridors position including 27 closed landfill sites, 19 operating At these locations Viridor works in partnership as industry leader in respect of the proportion landfills and five Sites of Special Scientific with the Wildlife Trusts, local communities and of sites covered by the Biodiversity Interest.
These landholdings particularly closed employees to enhance amenity and Benchmark.
landfill sites can have significant benefits to biodiversity wherever practicable.
Viridor has plants and wildlife.
In order to better worked hard to manage and enhance understand the potential of these sites the biodiversity on its closed sites and six have company carries out detailed ecological assessments, leading to the development of 40 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Objective: Engage with all our stakeholders and foster good relationships with them.
Pennon aims to be a good neighbour and liaises with its stakeholders in order to determine and respond to their priorities.
Both subsidiaries are actively engaging with stakeholders via social media, developing their online presence to enable customer and community queries and issues to be raised and addressed in this way.
Panel played a key role in scrutinising range of supplementary advice and South West Water and challenging South West Waters support services for example In support of its Business Plan to 2020 engagement activities and the resultant dedicated account managers, water South West Water carried out its plans.
and energy audits and laboratory largest ever programme of research services and products designed to and engagement with customers and When the plan was published in improve water efficiency and ensure stakeholders during 2013 14.
December 2013 it had achieved 84% non-household customers get the best acceptability and endorsement from Designed to gauge priorities for future possible value for money.
investment, the formal research Evidence of exceptional customer At a wider level, South West Water is element was supported by a regionengagement was highlighted by Ofwat taking steps to improve its wide multi-platform media campaign in its subsequent assessment.
communications with customers and including digital media.
This includes an In preparation for the opening of the An independent panel comprising increased use of digital media and a retail market to business customers in representatives from key consumer, focus on improving the responsiveness 2017, the company is successfully business, environmental and regulatory of customer services.
engaging with the business community stakeholder groups also helped ensure through Source for Business.
This the plan achieved a sustainable offers an expansive and innovative balance of investment for the region.
The WaterFuture Customer Viridor This year the evaluation criteria were community groups and interested stricter than previously.
The company again took In its second year of participation is based on a detailed assessment in part in the English Heritage Open Days, Viridor was awarded two stars in the the key areas of Workplace, encouraging local people to explore Business in the Community Corporate Marketplace, Environment and Viridors facilities.
Responsibility CR Index 2014, a step Community.
Many of the companys up on its previous years assessment.
Viridor also continues to operate achievements in these areas are community liaison groups at its major Developed in consultation with outlined elsewhere in this section of the facilities, including those under business leaders, the CR Index is a Annual Report.
construction, to ensure active and powerful tool that has helped leading Within this framework Viridor continues open dialogue between the company companies drive progress on corporate to operate an open door policy at its and its stakeholders and regulators.
responsibility for more than a decade.
facilities, encouraging visits and engagement with customers, www.
co. uk 2014 41 Strategic overview South W South West W est Water ater V Viridor iridor Gr Group oup Gover Governance finance Financial statements Financial statements Strategic report - Group Sustainability report Continued Objective: Strive for the highest standards of health and safety in the workplace so as to minimise accidents, incidents and lost time.
Viridor South West Water RIDDOR incidence rate per 100,000 employees RIDDOR incidence rate per 100,000 employees 2010 2,008 2010 2,165 2011 1,628 2011 1,238 2012 565 2012 1,429 2013 2013 243 1,197 Actual number of incidents was 3 Actual number of incidents was 37 A safe and healthy workforce will always be a top priority for the Pennon Group.
As the coroners inquest to establish the included the introduction of an independent South West Water material facts relating to the death has yet to occupational health service and a third-party The health and safety of employees is South take place, this incident is not included in our nurse-led absence reporting process.
This West Waters foremost concern and the 2013 14 figures for RIDDOR Reporting of supports the reduction of absence while company has rigorous health and safety Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences providing employees with advice on specific policies and procedures in place.
Tragically, on 30 December 2013 there was an South West Water continually reviews its incident at Falmouth Waste Water Treatment health and safety standards and makes Works which involved the death of a member improvements as necessary to ensure best of our waste water team.
In recent years this has The results will help inform action plans in this Kilbride Household Waste Recycling Centre Viridor priority area for 2014 15. relating to site layout and reversing vehicles.
Viridor is committed to achieving a step change The notice was immediately actioned and in its health, safety and welfare performance.
It This work complements the HSE-published complied with.
already has rigorous and comprehensive health Waste Industry Safety and Health WISH and safety policies, procedures and systems in Blueprint for Accident Reduction in the HSE action is also pending in Scotland relating place and is now focusing on behavioural safety Recycling and Waste Industry of which Viridor to an incident at Bargeddie MRF, which is likely and a fully engaged culture to achieve this.
A revised health and safety to result in a prosecution.
The matter, involving strategy was also endorsed by the Viridor serious injury to an employee, has been fully A major review of health and safety Board in January 2014. investigated and corrective actions have been management, systems and culture was implemented.
launched in January 2014, and an HSERegrettably an HSE Improvement Notice was endorsed health and safety employee survey issued to Viridor in October 2013 at its East was conducted towards the end of 2013 14.
From 2012 reportable incidents are reported on seven days absence: in previous years they were reported on three days absence.
42 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Objective: Develop and motivate our employees, treat them fairly and ensure that they are fully engaged in all aspects of the Pennon Groups objectives.
Pennons success is fundamentally due to the quality and diligence of our employees.
We recruit talented and committed people and provide training packages to equip them with the skills they need to deliver the Groups objectives.
Both South West Water and Viridor are equal opportunities employers.
Their employment policies are non-discriminatory and every effort is made to ensure that no current or future employee is disadvantaged because of age, gender, religion, ethnic origin, marital status, sexual orientation or disability.
Employees are supported through a range of family-friendly policies and other benefits.
Employees are also entitled to participate in Pennon Group all-employee share schemes.
Any changes to policies are communicated and consulted upon in detail.
During 2013 14 the company also for example, are given to those who South West Water carried out a major upskilling have made a significant contribution South West Waters People Strategy programme for operational staff.
towards the company vision of is designed to foster a culture of delivering Pure Water, Pure Service support, motivation and reward for The company prides itself on recruiting and Pure Environment.
Comprehensive development and retaining a highly skilled workforce programmes are in place at all levels of and in 2013 14 its apprenticeship the business to encourage career programme continued to gather development.
These include momentum with 23 new recruits.
management training initiatives and the Various internal schemes are in place GROW programme, which focuses on to promote innovation and reward increasing business awareness and those whose performance has giving employees the tools and excelled.
The Pure Awards, techniques for personal development.
employee engagement is a force that apprenticeship and the company Viridor drives business outcomes.
Engaged currently employs a further 17 The achievements, professionalism and employees help to drive safety, traditional apprentices.
A full range of commitment of its employees is a productivity, profitability and customer NVQs and other training qualifications is source of pride to Viridor.
As part of Viridors renewed available to ensure the required levels of is continuing its transition from a commitment to employee engagement, skills and expertise across the traditional waste collection and disposal it will now be working with Gallup and workforce.
company into a sector-leading using their well-known and established renewable energy, recycling and As part of its innovative partnership with Q12 employee engagement resources business.
To do this it is Edge Hill University, Viridors business programme, starting with the Viridor creating a business that is future-fit, leadership and management survey.
which means having a well-trained, foundation degree course continues for skilled and engaged workforce along Reflecting its ongoing focus on positive its next generation of leaders.
The first with excellent business processes and professional development and training, Viridor Degree cohort have completed systems.
245 Viridor employees are registered the course and will graduate in July for the sustainable resource 2014.
The worlds top-performing organisations understand that www.
co. uk 2014 43 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Strategic report - Group Sustainability report Continued Pennon Group Plc greenhouse gas emissions 2013 14 2012 13 Scope 1 1,223,568 1,200,591 Scope 2 143,478 143,528 Scope 3 60,080 57,493 Total gross emissions 1,427,126 1,401,613 Carbon offsets 0 0 Netted off renewable electricity export to grid up to total amount of 143,478 143,528 electricity purchased and consumed by organisation Total annual net emissions 1,283,648 1,258,084 Biogenic emissions outside of scopes 936,133 957,425 Intensity measure: tCO e gross Scope 1 2 100,000 revenue 103 tCO e 100,000 revenue 112 tCO e 100,000 revenue 2 2 2 Scope 1 Direct emissions Activities owned or controlled by our organisation that Organisational boundary release emissions straight into the atmosphere, for example the combustion of fuels The emissions listed here cover the Pennon Group of in company owned and controlled stationary equipment and transportation, companies using the financial control approach.
emissions from site based processes and site based fugitive emissions.
Operational scopes Scope 2 Indirect emissions Emissions released into the atmosphere associated with our consumption of purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
These are We have measured our Scope 1, 2 and some Scope 3 indirect emissions that are a consequence of our activities but which occur at sources emissions where information is available.
Intensity measurement Scope 3 Other indirect emissions Emissions that are a consequence of our actions, which occur at sources which we do not own or control and which are not We have chosen an intensity measure of Scope 1 and 2 gross classed as scope 2 emissions.
emissions in tCO e per 100,000 revenue.
2 External assurance statement Notes Our greenhouse gas emissions data has been independently Change in emissions audited and verified for accuracy, completeness and Our GHG emissions increased between 2012 13 and 2013 14 consistency by an external assurance assessor.
largely as a result of additional fugitive emissions from our Carbon offsets landfills.
However our emissions intensity measure of tCO2e 100,000 revenue decreased as a result of our revenue We do not purchase any carbon offsets, instead we rely on increasing at a faster rate than our emissions.
self-generated renewable energy to reduce our overall emissions.
In order to maintain emissions comparability between reporting years we have taken the decision to rebase our historical Green tariffs renewable energy export emissions following a recent change in the Governments We do not purchase green tariff electricity: instead we can methodology for calculating the emissions conversion factors reduce our net emissions by exporting our self-generated associated with imported electricity usage.
The Governments renewable energy to other users.
modification has resulted in an approximate 7% reduction in emissions from imported electricity Scope 2 emissions compared with the previous methodology and this has been significant enough to prompt us to rebase our 2012 13 reportable emissions.
Our second methodological change is to remove biogenic emissions from our Scope 1 emissions and report them separately so that they are no longer included within our total gross and net emissions.
This accords with the latest Government guidance on reporting emissions reductions such as those emissions that have their origins in biological matter.
Methodology and approach We have followed the Governments environmental reporting guidelines for mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting published by DEFRA in June 2013.
In calculating our emissions we have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and the web-based conversion factors provided by DEFRA.
44 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Objective: Aspire to leadership in minimising emissions that contribute to climate change, and develop climate change adaption strategies optimising asset performance and of the Upstream Thinking initiative, South West Water refurbishing pump systems through to the more general move In 2013 14 South West Water away from a dependency on renewable energy generation increased its capacity for renewable engineering and energy intensive energy and continued to invest in the new technologies e. g. operating schemes.
fine-tuning of its assets, systems and equipment and systems remotely working practices in order to make Phased Utilisation of Remote Operating under the PUROS scheme them more energy efficient.
Compared Systems promotion of energy efficiency with its 2009 10 baseline, carbon through the in-house Powerdown emissions were successfully reduced initiative.
and energy consumption was 2.4GWh The companys holistic, catchmentlower than for the previous year.
based approach to the management of Since the start of the current water and waste water is also working investment period 2010-2015 South towards a reduction in carbon West Water has improved the way it emissions.
This spans everything from manages energy and emission levels the carbon capture in the restored peat through a combination of the following: bogs that have been developed as part The largest source of Scope 1 GHG related emissions through business Viridor emissions as CO equivalent tonnes and technical efficiency initiatives.
2 Carbon management and energy are landfill gas fugitive emissions.
These emissions reduced by 15% over efficiency are now well established These continue to reduce as capture the three years since 2011.
Almost half disciplines within Viridor.
During the rates improve harnessing methane for of these reductions have been year there was continued progress with power generation, landfill volumes achieved in 2013 14. the deployment of energy and water reduce and the composition of inputs saving initiatives in line with the The roll-out of the first phase of a continues to change.
Thermal emission companys five-year carbon reduction company-wide LED lighting retrofit has increases with increased utilisation of and energy efficiency plan.
This aims to been completed at 26 of Viridors ERFs will be more than offset by the reduce its overall fossil fuel related largest energy-consuming facilities.
decline in landfill emissions and carbon footprint and improve energy emissions that would be otherwise Viridor has shown continued sector efficiency by 20% against a 2010 11 generated by fossil fuel fired power leadership with the accreditation to ISO baseline.
stations to provide the same amount of 50001 Energy Management Standard Through its energy recovery operations energy.
This represents using residual and organic wastes as 43% of the total certified sites from all Although Viridor exports almost 12 fuel, Viridor is a significant exporter of sectors in the UK and 2% worldwide.
times the amount of electricity that it largely renewable power generated uses from the national grid, it cannot electricity to the national grid.
The net one off against the other for companys materials recycling carbon reporting purposes.
As an operations also make a positive operator of a fleet of 650 collection contribution towards helping reduce trucks and 200 other company embodied carbon within supply chains vehicles, the company also continues by replacing virgin materials in to focus on reducing its .
co. uk 2014 45 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Strategic report - Group Sustainability report Continued Objective: Aspire to leadership in all aspects of waste prevention and resource efficiency.
Pennon is delivering solutions for society to address the Renewable energy generation GWh environmental challenge of depleting natural resources by 2010 11 752 13.8 maximising the value of residual materials, transforming 2011 12 760 14.7 waste and improving energy efficiency.
2012 13 820 19.3 2013 14 778 17.4 South West Water Viridor Recycling volumes tonnes of dry solids Recycling volumes traded million tonnes 2010 11 52,400 2010 11 1.718 2011 12 54,612 2011 12 1.842 2012 13 45,304 2012 13 1.909 2013 14 2013 14 34,918 1.846 With regard to waste prevention, South West Treatment Works in Plymouth and the use of South West Water Water recycles sludge using anaerobic recycled plastics at Ashford Waste Water South West Water has successfully avoided digestion techniques to create a biosolid Treatment Works, North Devon.
water restrictions for 17 years due to its past product for agricultural use.
The company has investment in resources and its careful In addition the company continues to take also invested in creating energy from waste management of supplies.
The companys steps to reduce the amount of waste sent to and currently has seven operational CHP water resource position is healthy and its landfill through the recycling and composting Combined Heat and Power plants.
Part of strategy going forwards is to invest in ways to of grit and screenings solid materials extracted South West Waters long-term strategy is to move water to where it is needed most rather in the early stage of waste water treatment.
In further develop each of these activities.
than developing any new reservoir sites.
South particular grit is being used for land restoration West Water continues to achieve industrySouth West Water is also currently working activities at Park and Stannon reservoirs the leading leakage control and the company is with its supply chain partners to minimise the former china clay pits purchased for reservoir taking steps to reduce the amount of time it amount of waste on construction sites and use in 2011 that South West Water is working takes for leaks to be fixed.
This is being make use of by-product materials such as alongside local authorities and conservation delivered, in part, through increased monitoring rock, grit, plastics and other materials.
and investment in analytical technologies to past year this has included the recycling of better predict any issues on the mains.
excavated concrete at Radford Wastewater to its clients across all sectors.
The company Walpole during 2013 14 and installed solar Viridor continues to identify and exploit economic and power arrays at Westbury closed landfill and at Todays business practices continue to largely policy drivers and opportunities to deliver Lakeside EfW.
rely on increasing resource consumption to services contributing to greater resource create and drive economic growth.
There is A partnership between Viridor and Highview efficiency and energy security.
increasing pressure on resources such as Power Storage was awarded over 8 million in minerals, metals and fossil fuels, and rising and Despite ongoing price volatility for recycled February 2014 to spur innovation in storing volatile prices for materials and energy commodities, Viridor broadly maintained the energy.
The contract to build and operate a demonstrate the increasing risk of impending overall volume of material recovered for 5MW energy storage demonstration project at resource crunch.
Addressing this and recycling at 1.8 million tonnes in 2013 14 1.9 a Viridor landfill site has been awarded by the changing linear business models extract, million tonnes 2012 13 while focusing on Department of Energy and Climate Change.
make, consume, dispose requires the producing higher quality materials.
The company was also pleased to see the adoption of the business strategies of a more Renewable power generation decreased by introduction of the Materials Recycling Facilities circular economy.
The principles of this 5.1% to 778 GWh from 820 GWh in 2012 13.
MRF Code of Conduct, introducing quality include higher levels of reuse and recycling, The greatest contribution of renewable power assessment criteria for output materials at all products as services, collaborative production was from 33 landfill gas power plants, followed UK MRFs, during the year.
Viridor has been and consumption, and renewable power by ERF plants and a modest contribution from leading the call for the introduction of such generation and use.
AD plants and solar power arrays.
The standards, and helped develop the protocols Viridor provides services in line with its stated contribution from ERFs will increase now required by all operators.
purpose of giving resources new life.
It provides significantly as five plants are due to become essential waste prevention, recycling, resource operational during 2014 15.
Viridor management and renewable energy services commissioned an additional AD facility at 46 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Governance South West Water Programmes and performance contributing to the and Viridor sustainability reports sustainability of the businesses are overseen by the Pennon Sustainability Committee and in the case of The full sustainability report for Viridor will be South West Water, its own sustainability committee.
published in August and this year South West Details of the Pennon Sustainability Committee are Water will be incorporating its sustainability given on page 67.
The subsidiaries develop a range of reporting in its annual report and accounts which targets as part of their business planning processes and monitor and report progress to their respective will be published in July.
Both documents will be boards and to the Pennon and South West Water available to view at www.
co. uk Sustainability Committees throughout the year.
and also on the subsidiaries websites.
Full details Verification of the sustainability targets for South West Water Pennons sustainability performance and reporting has and Viridor for 2013 14, and their performance been audited by Carnstone Partners LLP, an against them, are given in their respective reports.
independent management consultancy, specialising in corporate responsibility and sustainability.
co. uk 2014 47 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
