Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 29 Building a sustainable business date of properties following reservation.
our Housing Association partners for their Corporate responsibility Such delays have primarily been caused customers on lower incomes.
We remain byperiodic shortages of skilled labour.
committed to building sustainable Corporate responsibility communities across the UK on an and sustainability remain Despite these challenges, we have worked inclusive basis.
hard to deliver high quality new homes on key elements to the Groups time but we have had to delay handover On the introduction of the Governments business model.
to customers in some cases where Help to Buy equity loan scheme we Our approach is focused on the creation production programmes have slipped.
were successful in securing a substantial of vibrant communities that provide As aresult, we have achieved an NHBC allocation of funding to support our much needed new homes across the HBF 3 rating for 2014, down from 4 for customers in buying a newly built home.
We believe sustainability and good the previous three years.
During the year an additional 5,358 of corporate responsibility practices produce our customers utilised the Governments We are taking measures to address tangible benefits for both our business and scheme.
This has enabled our customers these challenges and to ensure that our the communities in which we build.
to purchase a newly built house with customers are more clearly informed just a 5% deposit by securing a 20% We ensure that these objectives remain of the progress of construction of shared equity loan and obtain favourable a priority on the agenda of each of our their new homes.
We are confident mortgage rates from lenders.
operating businesses and that best that with continued hard work we practice across the Group is shared will see the benefits of our actions We have also continued to provide our effectively.
The Groups policies and in future improvement in customer own Helping Hand shared equity scheme procedures that deliver high levels of satisfaction levels.
to customers, particularly in Wales and corporate responsibility and sustainability Scotland where there has been more In addition we have committed further remain at the forefront of our approach to limited Government provision of assistance resources to training our sales staff to planning new developments.
through schemes similar to HTB.
We have also increased our sales and marketing The Group has also continued to support Customers resources, particularly relating to electronic customers to move home by making Achieving good levels of customer service and digital communications, to ensure available our Home Change and Part remains at the core of our business.
our potential customers are aware of the Exchange facilities.
During 2014 16% of At times during 2014 keeping pace with available opportunities to buy a new home.
our customers chose to take advantage construction to meet sales demand of this opportunity in what is still a slower We continue to focus on ensuring our has meant our customer satisfaction moving second hand market 2013: 24%.
new homes remain affordable for our level has deteriorated.
Our customer These customers have been able to customers.
Our average selling price in satisfaction survey results indicate that achieve a move whilst taking advantage 2014 was 190,533 but c. 37% of our the primary cause of the deterioration has ofthe convenience of these arrangements properties were sold for 150,000 or less.
been delays in the estimated completion to fulfil their familys aspirations.
The Group delivered 2,256 new homes to Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 30 Performance review continued Operating efficiently by minimising waste, resource use and energy consumption provides tangible cost savings as well as reducing our environmental impact.
We consumed 23.1m kWh of energy to Sustainable Homes Resource Efficiency power and heat our regional offices, site We strive to ensure our new homes Operating efficiently by minimising waste, offices, sales offices, show homes and our possess superior environmental efficiency resource use and energy consumption Space4 timber frame manufacturing plant.
throughout their lifecycle through careful provides tangible cost savings as well The amount of energy used decreased by design and construction.
We focus on a as reducing our environmental impact.
23% in 2014 2013: 30.0m kWh, equating fabric first approach to achieve higher Waste is our most significant environmental to 6,829 tonnes of CO e 2013: 7,790 2 standards of energy efficiency of our new impact and we have embedded good tonnes of CO e. This reduction is as a 2 homes.
During 2014 the energy efficiency sustainability practices within our business result of the increasing efficiency of our of our new homes based on the Standard to minimise waste through efficient design, site operations and improvements to the Assessment Procedure SAP, the logistics and stock control, the use of manufacturing processes in our Space4 Governments rating system for evaluating prefabricated and pre-sized materials, plant which have significantly reduced our energy performance of homes, remained minimising packaging and executing gas consumption.
With the expansion of our business during During 2014 the Group built 4,255 During 2014 we maintained our waste 2014, our company car fleet increased 2013: 2,797 homes assessed against recycling at a high level of 90% of the by 12% to 962 vehicles from 858 in 2013, the Code for Sustainable Homes or 86,000 tonnes of waste generated with the amount of fuel used increasing its preceding standard EcoHomes.
However we are disappointed by the same percentage to 2.69m litres Both standards assess energy efficiency, that the average waste generated per 2013: 2.4m litres.
The total carbon water consumption and material use home sold increased by 12% to 6.3 tonnes footprint from our motor fleet operation as well as other sustainability criteria.
This increase was hasincreased by only 7% to 6,900 tonnes A significant component of our ability to principally caused by the large number of CO e since 2009 when our fleet was 2 deliver superior energy efficient properties of sites closed during the year as sites less than 650 vehicles.
is the use of our insulated timber frame sold out.
Reducing the amount of waste Our total operational carbon footprint for panel construction system from our that we send to landfill is a continuing 2014 was 13,700 tonnes 2013: 14,100 manufacturing business, Space4.
However, in view of our success tonnes, equating to 1.00 tonne of CO per over the last decade in improving our 2 In 2014 Space4 supplied c. 5,100 home legally completed 2013: 1.22 tonnes recycling rates, our rate of progress is likely insulated timber frame kits to the Groups of CO per home completed.
This 3% to slow in the future.
We will continue to 2 housebuilding businesses across the reduction reflects the increasing efficiency investigate the use of any new techniques regions.
As well as generating over 60% of our operations despite the substantial supporting material recycling as they less CO emissions than older existing 2 increase in production on our sites, become available.
housing stock, our new homes built using which offset the increase in our transport Space4 timber frames exceed acoustic We monitor our energy use and CO 2 related emissions.
performance standards set by building emissions and use DEFRA environmental regulations.
The Space4 construction reporting guidelines and emission processes generate less waste on site factors from DEFRAs Greenhouse Gas and use considerably less water than Conversion Factors Repository as a conventional building methods and can methodology for calculating our emissions.
be quickly assembled, resulting in a better and safer working environment for our employees.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 31 safety, risk identification and mitigation Workforce Diversity and during the planning and construction Skills Development phases of our developments.
During the During 2014 our workforce increased to last two years we have substantially 3,453 employees on average, an increase increased the resources in our Health of 24% 2013: 2,791 of which 1001 staff and Safety Department to ensure that are female, representing 29% of our the quality of our management systems workforce.
We have eight male directors and controls are improved and keep and one female director of Persimmon 41 pace with the rapid expansion in our plc.
Our Group senior management team construction activities.
RIDDORs reduced comprises 130 employees of which 19 by 15% to 41 are female.
We are pleased to report a 15% reduction 2013: 48 in worker related reportable accidents As part of the rapid expansion of under the Reporting of Injuries Diseases our workforce, we have put in place and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations apprentice, trainee and graduate RIDDORs in 2014 to 41 2013: 48. recruitment programmes.
We currently We continue to support the Qualifying have over 480 trainees, apprentices and the Workforce initiative which requires graduates working within our business.
construction based personnel to obtain In September we launched our Combat the Construction Skills Certification to Construction training scheme which Scheme CSCS card.
This is a skills based enables Armed Forces service leavers programme and aims to provide evidence to retrain in a rewarding career within the of an individuals ability to carry out work in housebuilding industry.
In 2014 95% of the Groups engaged over 60 trainees and expect site based workforce held a CSCS card to substantially increase the number 2013: 97%.
of trainees on this scheme during the forthcoming year.
Community In addition we continue to deliver Building sustainable communities training programmes to our employees.
requires a detailed appreciation of the During 2014 we provided over 7,900 social, environmental and economic training days to our staff including forces that shape them and we play our management and health and safety training part in supporting community projects, to our construction workforce.
Overall we sponsorship and fund raising.
During 2014 provided 2.3 training days per employee the Group and its staff made charitable 2013: 1.6 days per employee an increase donations of 171,000 to good causes.
In 2014 we delivered over 48m in new We have no material issues to report community facilities, a 26% increase over concerning human rights.
Information on the previous year 2013: 38m.
Over one our employees and our human rights third of this investment related to new policy can be found on our website educational facilities and 18% related to the www.
com in provision of new affordable social housing.
We built 55% of our new homes on Health and Safety brownfield land, often carrying out substantial remediation of contaminated The health and safety of our employees, sites to the benefit of the community.
subcontractors, home owners and Utilising such land reduces the pressure visitors to our construction sites continues to build on greenfield sites and provides to be of paramount importance to us.
substantial benefits in the regeneration of Our approach to health and safety our towns and cities.
is based on careful planning and management of our construction activities on site.
We encourage both collective and individual responsibility for health and Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 32 Performance review continued receive 154m as dividends and 60m in Shareholders equity, cash-redeemed B shares on receipt of the treasury policy and B share C share offer for the payment of related risks the second instalment.
The Groups long term strategy relies The Groups total net asset value of upon disciplined use of capital through 2,193m 2013: 2,046m increased by 7% the housing cycle.
This requires or 147m for the year ended 31 December management to retain funding flexibility 2014.
Net assets per share increased 7% 214m to support investment in land and work over the prior year end to 715.4 pence Returned to shareholders in progress at the appropriate point in the 2013: 671.4 pence.
2013: 228m cycle whilst returning surplus capital to The generation of strong annual after tax shareholders.
This approach will deliver earnings, management of the Groups and sustain greater shareholder value over equity and debt and cash management the longer time horizon recognising the facilities, together with changes to planned inherent cyclicality of the housing market.
shareholder capital returns will continue We believe this strategy actively supports to provide the appropriate resources the development of the business over through the housing cycle for management the long term whilst securing a strong to deliver its operational plans.
We will financial position to minimise financial continue to focus on generating strong risk.
We believe the Boards undertaking liquidity and will only use funding gearing to to return 1.9bn of surplus capital to support short term working capital needs shareholders over the 9 year period to in line with the seasonality of the business.
2021 demonstrates our commitment to This approach will mitigate the financial exercise the required capital discipline.
risks the Group faces which includes credit The Groups total after tax retained profits risk, liquidity risk, interest rate volatility and for the year were 45% higher than last year debt capital market pricing risk.
The Groups We concluded an amendment of the retained earnings were offset in part by an Groups 300m Revolving Credit Facility after tax remeasurement loss of 33.3m on 31 March 2014 with our five relationship associated with the Groups pension banks which included an extension of the schemes deficit of 0.5m, and added to facilitys maturity date to 31 March 2019. byshare based payments of 18.8m.
Further details of the Groups financial As a result of the Groups long term instruments and approach to risk strategy a second instalment under management are included in Note 22 the Capital Return Plan of 214m was tothe financial statements.
accelerated and paid to shareholders on 4 July 2014.
Shareholders elected to The Groups total net asset value of 2,193m 2013: 2,046m increased by 7% or 147m for the year ended 31 December 2014.
