Petrofac 48 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility The Petrofac corporate responsibility CR ethos is embodied in our values.
These values lie at theheart of our work, differentiate us from competitors, and guide our decisions and actions.
They also force us to take a disciplined, long-term approach to our corporate responsibilities.
For example: Being ethical is evident in our Code of Conduct Our insistence on safety is visible in the way we safeguard our people, our partners and our assets Our responsiveness is demonstrated in the way we seek to understand the concerns of our stakeholders, from clients tocommunities, and address them in the way we report Being driven to deliver means our projects and activities are designed to create long-term value for local communities andhost societies During 2014, we continued to formalise our approach to CR, withgreater levels of discipline andimproved reporting standards.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 49 Annual report and accounts 2014 A safe, ethical, responsive business  During 2014 we made further progress by dening in more detail Why CR is important to our continued the material issues we should be reporting against, and also by businesssuccess developing a roadmap for being able to report in full accordance Petrofac is here for the long term and we understand that sustained with the GRI G4 guidelines.
commercial success and disciplined CR go hand-in-hand.
We therefore recognise and manage the impact of our business Understanding what matters most and its contribution to society.
We see it not just as an ethical way to our stakeholders toact.
Rather, for a service company like Petrofac, we know that We first enlisted the support of our CR advisors in 2012, and their CR makes sound business sense.
It helps us to: brief was to help us develop our reporting in line with good industry practice as well as with stakeholder and investor expectations.
build productive relationships with our clients which we achieve, for example, by employing and training local workforces The first step was an initial materiality assessment.
Working with develop trust in our reliability and integrity which we are representatives from across our business, we identied a series reinforcing, for instance, by developing a global compliance network of CR topics that we believed were most relevant to our business.
manage risk more effectively as we do with the social and In 2013 we set out to validate these assumptions through a series of environmental impact assessments that we carry out in in-depth interviews with several of our most important stakeholders all geographies including clients, suppliers, investors, NGOs, government improve our performance which we do, for example by representatives and industry associations.
Then, in 2014, we sought maintaining the integrity of our assets, and caring about the greater clarity by engaging with a wider selection of stakeholders.
safetyof our people and our suppliers Based on this work, we have arrived at an authoritative maintain strong employee engagement which we do by materiality matrix.
protecting our distinctive culture and progressively strengthening This informs our management approach to CR and is used by the our HR processes wider business to help improve the quality of our CR programmes and feed through to our reporting.
Progressively raising our reporting standards We continue to work towards the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Improving our performance and providing G4 guidelines.
This, in turn, helps to bring more discipline and afullerpicture continual improvement to our CR programmes, and allows us Our external advisers also conducted a full gap analysis of our toprioritise areas of improvement.
This identied those areas As a commonly used framework for reporting on environmental, where our reporting is already in accordance with the GRI G4 social and governance matters, the GRI guidelines help us to: guidelines, highlighted areas for improvement, and enabled us toset several new targets.
identify and address the material issues that matter the most to our stakeholders including investors, clients, employees Drawing on this analysis, we continue to raise our standards.
and NGOs For example, we have rened our reporting around social performance, environmental protection and human rights.
prioritise areas for improvement and track our progress over time For 2015, we will continue to engage with external consultants to benchmark our performance against our peers help us track our performance.
We will also increase the quality and detail of CR reporting at www.
Supplier and contractor management A. Biodiversity and habitat protection B.
Political risk B. In-country value when operating in sensitive locations C. Social investment C. Social licence to operate Petrofac materiality matrix B.
Joint venture management C. Human rights E. Major accidents process safety andissues for 2014 D. Occupational health H. Revenue and tax transparency E. Worker safety fatalities Over the past few years we have E. Contractor safety and management engaged with a range of internal E. Emergency preparedness F. Security risks and external stakeholders to G. Learning and development identify the CR issues that are G. Diversity and equality most relevant to our business.
H. Bribery and corruption In 2014, these issues were rened H. Ethical conduct H. Governance and re-prioritised to reect prevailing attitudes and take A.
Materials A. Legacy soil contamination C. Industrial relations disputes account of changing expectations.
D. Wellbeing and stress management C. Indigenous populations G. Succession and career planning D. Disease prevention C. Land acquisition and resettlement G. Employee retention Key: Issues by group H. Trade sanctions G. Employee recruitment A Environmental protection H. Whistleblowing B Economic performance C Social performance C. Employee volunteering D Health E Safety F Security Low Medium High G People and resourcing H Ethics Importance to Petrofac Importance to external stakeholders Low Medium High Petrofac 50 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Safety, asset integrity and security Compared with 2013, the number of HiPos reduced from 81 Nothing is more important to Petrofac than safety protecting our people, our clients and the communities incidents to 78.
We regard this as a critical measure and seek to understand the circumstances behind every case each of which we work in, as well as the assets we design, build, operate and maintain.
is fully investigated and the lessons learned are shared across the Group.
Safety, asset integrity and security are fundamental to the way we work at Petrofac.
We measure our wider safety performance according to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules.
In every They matter to our people, our clients, our suppliers and our wider category, the absolute number of incidents and their severity stakeholders.
They reect our relentless focus on operational decreased, due to a reduction in man-hours worked, but for two excellence.
They also help us sustain our unique, deliverycategories, the underlying rates edged upwards: focused culture.
our recordable incident frequency rate was 0.16 per During 2014 we continued to enhance our well-established 200,000 man-hours, compared with a rate of 0.14 in 2013, and programme of health, safety, security, environment and integrity a target of zero.
This is well below the industry norm of 0.32 assurance HSSEIA measures.
We also started to gear-up as extrapolated from the gures published by the International for 2015 when, with our largest ever backlog, we are due to Association of Oil and Gas Producers commence the construction phase of several large projects.
Meanwhile, we continued to rene our asset integrity programme, our lost time incident LTI frequency rate was 0.044 per which includes systematic scrutiny of key performance indicators 200,000 man-hours, compared with a rate of 0.046 in 2013, and across all of our operations.
Again, this compares well with the industry norm of 0.090 as extrapolated from the International Association of Oil Safe a core Petrofac value and Gas Producers gures the driving incident frequency rate was 0.12 per million kilometres Reecting on our safety performance Across Petrofac, we are committed to a future in which we have driven.
We do not have a reliable industry benchmark with which to compare this performance zero safety incidents, as reected in the name of our Horizon Zero global safety campaign.
We are proud to say that, much of the time, we do live up to this goal and, during 2014, we were able Strengthening our safety culture to celebrate several encouraging landmarks.
During 2014 we continued with our Group-wide safety improvement plan, the purpose of which is to continue to For example, Petrofac Training Services has now gone three strengthen our safety culture whilst also preparing the Company years without a single Lost Time Incident LTI.
During the past for the forthcoming increase in projects.
24 months, it also reduced the incidence of reportable events by 70%, and in the very first year of entering the Royal Society for the Our analysis of reported incidents reveals that their root cause Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety almost always lies in a basic failure to observe our Golden Rules Awards, it achieved the coveted Gold award.
Continually improving awareness of these Rules and their importance is therefore our emphasis.
Our LTI-free record has also been extended across several of our operations, including: For example, in 2014: 9 years at the Kittiwake platform in the North Sea we completed a Golden Rules of Safety e-learning package.
Using clear illustrations and graphics, this clearly articulates the 8 years at the Cendor Field Development project in Malaysia Rules and our insistence that they should always be followed, 10 million man-hours at Kuwait Oil Companys efuent water and will be rolled out throughout 2015 injection project we enhanced our HSSE Management Frameworks and made 4 million man-hours at the Badra oileld development project a number of changes to our related policies.
These have in Iraq been approved by the Board and will be implemented and communicated during 2015 4 million man-hours at the Gdansk shipyards in Poland we held a Safety Managers Forum, bringing together senior 2 million man-hours at Apaches North Sea assets HSSE personnel from across the Group, establishing priorities, Meanwhile, the number of managers who have participated in our and forming a number of new workgroups to follow through IES Safety Leadership training programme has exceeded 400. on related initiatives We are pleased to report that there were no fatalities at any of our in preparation for forthcoming construction and fabrication operations during 2014.
Nevertheless, we continue to focus close projects, we established new, onsite HSSE teams in both attention on what we term High Potential incidents HiPos, that Shanghai and Abu Dhabi is to say, incidents that could have resulted in a fatality or serious injury had the circumstances been slightly different.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 51 Annual report and accounts 2014 Continuing to improve our capability Leading by example When it comes to safety, we expect all of our senior executives For 2015 and beyond, we will continue to implement our Groupwide safety improvement plan.
Key components include: to lead by example.
For example, during 2014: the importance and effectiveness of role modelling was one establishing and implementing a new Control of Work Standard of the themes of our annual safety conference, attended by 130 developing new techniques to assess and improve of our most senior leaders, including our Group Chief Executive supplier safety and all Service Line Managing Directors implementing our revised HSSE management Framework we developed a framework and supporting tools to improve the visibility and the positive impact of site visits by any members of sharing best practice across the Group our leadership team.
This ensures that they lead by example, are This Group-wide plan is supplemented by and aligned with local well aware of any site-specic issues, and always address safety plans that have been established by each service line.
matters when speaking to our people Total man-hours worked million Recognising the risks relating to the Ebola crisis Million man-hours completed by employees and subcontractors Although we were not working in the three countries worst affected by the Ebola outbreak, with an ofce in Lagos, Nigeria, 2010 76 2011 143 and many of our people travelling through hub airports, we put in place measures to monitor the situation, provide advice to 2012 272 2013 160 employees and prepare for any worsening of the situation.
2014 115 Putting emergency preparedness to the test Given the fact that we work in a major hazard industry and Lost time injury frequency rate sometimes in difficult security environments, we are acutely aware per 200,000 man-hours of the importance of emergency preparedness.
2010 0.026 We are therefore fortunate that Petrofac Training Services is one 2011 0.018 of the industrys foremost providers of emergency response 2012 0.018 training, and we drew on these specialist capabilities on several 2013 0.046 occasions during 2014.
For example, major emergency response 2014 0.044 exercises were conducted in the UK, Malaysia, Mexico and Romania.
In each case, our teams were assessed on the quality of their response and lessons learnt were shared.
Recordable incident frequency rate per 200,000 man-hours Extending our commitment to our suppliers and partners 2010 0.18 All Petrofac safety policies and procedures apply equally to 2011 0.14 our suppliers and partners as well as our own employees.
2012 0.13 To underline this principle, we held our inaugural Contractor 2013 0.14 SafetyForum in 2014.
2014 0.16 The event held in Sharjah was attended by more than 150 representatives from over 40 of our key contractors from Driving incident frequency rate around the world.
The main themes were around embedding Incidents per million kilometres driven safety behaviours, enhancing collaboration between different companies, sharing learnings and emphasising the importance 2010 0.03 of teamwork.
Once again, we highlighted the importance of 2011 0.11 the Golden Rules of Safety and we emphasised the need 2012 0.11 for complete openness and transparency regarding HSSE 2013 0.02 performance and issues.
2014 0.12 Sharing best practice across the industry We continue to share expertise and reduce risk across the industry by collaborating with our peers.
For example, we remain an active member of the UK Oil Response Forum, and the Step Change in Safety initiative, which is co-chaired by a Petrofac representative.
We are also active in the Asset Integrity Workgroup and Helicopter Safety Steering Group where we played our part in the mandatory introduction in 2014 of emergency breathing systems for all helicopter passengers travelling offshore in the UK.
Petrofac 52 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Plans for 2015 include: Asset integrity fundamental to our business At Petrofac, we design, build and operate assets that are safe, launching a new e-learning tool to support the updated Asset reliable and meet or exceed their specified purpose.
Key to this Integrity Standard to include both primer-level and practitioneris our Asset Integrity Framework, which enables us to take a level modules structured and consistent approach to integrity across all Petrofac developing a new Control of Work Standard to ensure that our operations.
This Framework comprises: asset integrity disciplines and processes are consistently applied our Asset Integrity Management Policy to our construction projects our Asset Integrity Standard, comprising the 12 Elements Security protecting our people and assets of Asset Integrity Petrofacs security team works closely with the business to protect related guidance documents and a toolkit of our people and assets and to ensure that our operations proceed supporting processes smoothly.
This becomes more important as we enter new territories and work in volatile social and political environments.
Across the Group, we are responsible for protecting the integrity of 23 operating assets, and we seek to apply the underlying Improved intelligence gathering and analysis principles across all of our operations wherever they take place.
During 2014 we continued to improve our  capability.
Building on the enhancements implemented in 2013, A rigorous, consistent process we introduced a new system to identify quickly geographies Every month, each of our 23 operating assets is obliged to in which the risks of political and social unrest go beyond an report against a range of key performance indicators, which are acceptable threshold.
This information is used to inform our derived from the UK Health and Safety Executives guidance on advice to travelling employees and our project decision making.
These comprise: Meanwhile, we continue to share intelligence and information lagging indicators relating to the physical condition of with other companies in the oil and gas sector.
our assets and the status of their respective maintenance programmes for example, this includes us tracking any Respecting human rights unplanned plant shutdowns All of our security policies and practices are consistent with leading indicators relating to the quality of our management the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, and processes and the degree of compliance with our Asset Integrity we ensure that our teams and partners are fully aware of the Management Policy this includes the level of compliance with related considerations.
our planned maintenance programmes Tightening our everyday processes Drawing on this data, an asset integrity dashboard is published We continued to review and evolve our security processes, monthly and distributed to more than 100 people across the toreect the changing nature of the environments in which Group.
Additionally, our Asset Integrity Review Board, consisting weoperate, and our ongoing security activities include: of senior representatives from each operating asset, holds monthly teleconferences to review the performance of each asset, regular briengs to the Board Risk Committee discuss integrity issues, receive challenge, support and share weekly travel security and country updates learnings with their counterparts.
24-hour emergency support During 2014, the format of these monthly meetings was rened to take account of the increased number of assets under review, Plans for 2015 include the enhancement of our audit and to give more focus to strategic considerations and lessons and risk assessment processes.
We also developed and launched a new web-based tool that enables us to track and report on the asset integrity considerations of our engineering and construction projects.
Seeking continuous improvement We seek to continue to improve our approach to asset management.
Enhancements in 2014 included: updating our Asset Integrity Standard to provide more specic guidance, minimise the risk of misinterpretation and ensure that our practices are aligned across all of our operations developing a Group-wide hydrocarbon leak reduction e-learning package to build on our related work in the UK and emphasise the role of asset integrity in minimising the risk of accidents implementing a revised Technical Authority Framework toreect the global nature of our business and provide around-the-clock, technical support to those people across the Group who operate our assets and manage high hazard risks Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 53 Annual report and accounts 2014 Safety: HSE Bootcamps Safe is the first and most Petrofac enjoys an excellent safety record.
Our performance tends to be better than important Petrofac value.
Even so, things can andsometimes do go wrong.
In response to learnings from 2013, we Everyone in the Group would developed a programme of safety-related initiatives for 2014 including a series of HSEBootcamps.
agree on how important it is.
These three-day training courses were an eye-opener for many participants.
They are But making sure safety is not intended for HSE people.
Instead they were aimed at managers, team leaders and supervisors who take decisions and lead teams at our sites.
always top of mind requires Often, safetys biggest enemies are too muchfocus only on schedule and cost.
consistent communication The Bootcamps set out to show how any safety compromises can easily lead to time and cost over-runs.
And the consequences and continual commitment.
can be life-changing for everyone involved.
Encouraging people to take personal accountability for their colleagues and their decisions, the training introduced new ways to convert HSE knowledge into action.
The team behind the HSE Bootcamps team were selected as nalists in our annual EVE Awards.
But most importantly of all, there is evidence to show that they have contributed to better, safer onsite decisions.
Petrofac 54 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued People and resourcing Petrofac is a people-based business.
We recognise that Recruiting a new generation of homegrown talent it is our people, their attitude and skills, that are the Given the rapid growth of the Company, we have typically relied key to our distinctive delivery focused culture.
It is our on external recruitment to ll key roles.
Going forward, we want people that set us apart from our competitors, allow our employees to aspire to such positions.
With this greater us to attract and retain clients, and enable us to earn emphasis on personal and career development, we aim to be differentiated margins.
seen as an attractive employer offering continual opportunities forcareer progression and personal development.
For the next phase of our development, we need to bring more efficiency, consistency and effectiveness to the way we recruit To support our ongoing recruitment needs, we progressed with and manage our people while also enabling and encouraging a range of initiatives, including: employees from around the world to pursue the considerable establishing a compelling employee value proposition career opportunities that are opening up across the Group.
In 2014, based on formal research, we nalised our employee We enter 2015 with our biggest ever order backlog and anticipate value proposition which is now reected both within the that, over the coming five years, our global workforce will need Company and externally through, for example, a globally to continue to grow.
As well as creating significant career consistent approach to recruitment advertising and collateral, development opportunities for our existing employees, this aswell as the recruitment pages of our website.
alsorequires us to attract many more new employees.
The central message is join our journey, indicating that Petrofac is an ambitious company with a commitment to career In a Company with such a strong culture, we need everyone to progression.
After applying the new employee value proposition understand and live up to our values.
Our HR teams are therefore to the LinkedIn Petrofac pages, we quickly became the fifth working closely with their colleagues from across the business to most followed company in the oil and gas sector and became ensure we meet the challenge.
ranked as one of LinkedIns top 20 most inuential UK brands.
Establishing a business-focused HR strategy rolling-out our new recruitment systems Throughout the Group, we employ HR professionals with Throughout the year, we continued with the implementation expertise in a number of disciplines, who are based across the of a consistent, automated recruitment and applicant tracking world.
In 2014, this global team came together with our new system.
This enables us to: Group Director of Human Resources, Cathy McNulty, to rene improve the experience of potential and future employees theHR strategy.
streamline and standardise our recruitment procedures Aligned directly to Petrofacs business priorities, this strategy access and share the details of candidates across the Group sees us place more emphasis on developing our talented bring more rigour to the planning and evaluation of our people and leveraging their collective capability.
The guiding recruitment advertising principles include: reduce the reliance on and the costs of external developing our people viewing current employees as the recruitment agencies natural candidates for tomorrows roles, and equipping them topursue these opportunities Following its original introduction in 2013, the system was fully implemented across much of the Group during 2014. strengthening our leadership capabilities developing the Since its introduction, the proportion of employees recruited skills of our highest potential employees, with effective talent directly by Petrofac as opposed to through external agencies management and succession planning has increased from 20% to 46%, and we expect this gure to driving high performance cascading consistent and continue to grow.
aligned performance measures to enable us to achieve our business plans Driving high performance across the Group attracting and developing the right graduates evolving our To achieve our business goals, it is important for all of our graduate programmes to create a global cohort who are closely employees to understand what is expected of them, and the networked and highly collaborative contribution they make to the success of their teams.
encouraging people to join our journey portraying a To this end, our recently introduced performance management consistent employee value proposition that helps us to compete process provides a standardised way of setting employee for, and retain talent objectives and conducting mid-year reviews and year-end getting the HR fundamentals right seeking greater efficiency, appraisals.
It also recognises the importance of the Petrofac integration, consistency and effectiveness across all our values and the role they play in our distinctive, deliveryHR activities focused culture.
In 2014, the total number of employees and long-term contractors Each year, we also celebrate employees and teams who embody increased by around 8% to reach 19,800.
Meanwhile voluntary our values through the EVE Excellence, Values, Energy Awards.
staff attrition levels measured in terms of those leaving the This year we received 323 entries an increase of more than Company by choice remained at an acceptable rate, with 100% on 2013. turnover of some 8.5%.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 55 Annual report and accounts 2014 A commitment to continuous learning A disciplined approach to succession anddevelopment and careerplanning Again, the central ethos of our HR strategy is to develop our A focus of our HR strategy is to develop the Groups own people.
We want to enable all employees to progress in leadership capabilities.
We also want to enable those employees who In 2014, following a thorough talent review of our most senior are responsible for others to improve their management and managers, we reviewed and updated succession plans for all our leadership skills.
For 2015, we will extend our talent reviews further individual development into the organisation.
We offer a growing range of programmes and resources to help We will also look at ways to gain more value from the combined individual employees develop their respective competencies.
knowledge and experience of our most senior managers, such For example, during 2014, we introduced a new Asset Managers as more internal secondments and appointments.
The aim is to Development Programme and, for 2015, we are creating a ensure that we can always place our most effective people into similar programme for Project Directors.
Going forward, we our most important roles.
intend to review our e-learning resources thereby providing more exibility for employees and ensuring that programmes Global mobility where it makes business sense developed in one part of the Group can be accessed by Wherever possible, Petrofac delivers locally, by employing colleagues elsewhere.
local people, working with local partners and developing local management and leadership development capabilities.
However, in many instances, it makes good business This was a particular focus for our HR teams during 2014. sense for us to facilitate international moves.
For example, we introduced a new, Group-wide Leadership By mobilising some of our key people, we can supplement local and Management Competency Framework.
This clearly technical and professional skills.
We can also strengthen our sets out what we expect of all our managers, from first line global culture and we can add to the experience of our managers supervisors right through to our most senior leaders, and covers and leaders.
four dimensions: driving performance During 2014, we brought more consistency and rigour to the way we handle these international moves.
We established a developing people community of practice to develop in-house expertise in global delivering for clients mobility and enable HR teams to advise local business leaders, being a role model for our values support assignees and improve related processes.
The Framework draws heavily on our values and is aligned At the end of 2014, around 100 of our employees were covered with our selection criteria and our performance management by our global mobility programmes.
Looking ahead, we system see above.
It applies to everyone in the Group with anticipate an increase in the number of short-term and rotational responsibility for the performance of others.
assignments and expect assignees to be drawn from a wider range of countries.
With the Framework in place, we have also developed an all-embracing management and leadership development An engaged workforce with a sense of ownership programme, which we call the Petrofac Pathway.
This comprises We formally and regularly monitor employee engagement levels five key elements: across the Group.
Managing the Petrofac Way an induction programme for all To this end, we will be conducting our fifth biennial employee newly appointed and recruited managers, which emphasises survey, PetroVoices, during 2015. thePetrofac culture Supervisor Toolkit a two-day programme for newly appointed Meanwhile, we actively encourage employee share ownership, supervisors who, for the first time, have responsibility for believing that it builds commitment to the Companys goals and other colleagues rewards our people for their contribution.
In 2014, 31% of our employees participated in at least one of the Petrofac employee Management Essentials a programme concentrating on basic share schemes.
management skills for first-line managers Management & Leadership Development Programme an ongoing programme covering more advanced management skills for mid-to-senior managers Leadership Excellence Programme first introduced in 2011, and so far attended by almost 200 senior leaders, this comprises an annual leadership event and a series of financial and people management modules During 2014, we created all of the related course components and materials for each of these elements.
The priority for 2015 will be to embed the Petrofac Pathway across the entire Group, and to support local ofces with its implementation.
Petrofac 56 Annual report and accounts 2014 About our graduate population People: Graduate recruitment and development We continue to be a popular career choice Going forward, our aspiration is to move for todays graduates.
towards a more co-ordinated global 1,510 74.2% approach, whereby we operate a GroupAcross Europe, for example, our OPO wide recruitment, induction and training recruited since 2004 retention rate since 2004 business received over 3,000 graduate programme.
This would mean that we applications.
In the UK, ECS received more planstrategically for each years intake, than 2,000 applications.
For the first time, target particular universities, introduce Petrofac appeared in The Guardian UK standardised selection processes, run a 300 which ranks employers by their Group-wide induction and development popularity amongst students.
programme, and ultimately establish a global cohort of closely networked, highly During 2014 we reviewed our approach to collaborative trainees.
graduate recruitment, taking stock of the ways that our various business units select We are proud that our graduates reect the and develop graduates.
This includes the level of diversity we enjoy across the wider work of The Petrofac Academy, located in Group.
For example, they represent almost our UAE ofces, which focuses on graduate 50 nationalities, and females make up more training, accelerates the acquisition of than 20% of the total.
We also benefit from skills and helps young professionals particularly high levels of retention.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 57 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Social performance Our Social Performance Standard is now being implemented As our business strategy takes us into new geographies and we embark on longer-term contracts, we are across all relevant countries, particularly our IES operations in Mexico, Romania and Tunisia.
becoming ever more disciplined in understanding, planning and managing the impact we have on In each of these countries, we have conducted socio-economic local communities.
Wherever relevant, we have completed Often, we are contractually required to run social performance impact assessments and have mitigation measures in place.
programmes particularly for our IES contracts.
However, the In addition, grievance mechanisms are now well established in related skills and disciplines can benefit our wider operations Tunisia and are under development in Mexico and Romania.
helping us to manage risks, develop trust and build more During 2014, we continued to raise awareness of social productive relationships with customers, suppliers and performance issues across the Group and incorporate them local communities.
into our wider business processes.
For example, we regularly incorporate social performance considerations into: Implementing and enhancing our  the Petrofac Enterprise Risk Management System PERMS Our Social Performance Framework incorporates our Ethical, the risk assessment phase of pre-bidding and bidding Social and Regulatory Policy, our Social Performance Standard processes in order, for example, to anticipate potential and a set of supporting guidance notes.
It is fully consistent community relations considerations with international standards, such as the International Finance Corporation IFC Performance Standards on Environmental our approach to security to understand and address any and Social Sustainability and the Equator Principles.
situations where community relations could constitute a security risk The Framework was established in 2012 and continues to be rened.
In 2014, for example, we developed guidance on how For 2015, we will focus on continued improvement in the to manage Cultural Heritage impacts.
We also piloted an internal implementation of the Framework.
As part of this, we will conduct assurance process to monitor compliance with the Social social performance training and awareness-raising across a range Performance Standard.
In 2015, we will conduct assurance of relevant areas of the Company.
processes on all relevant Petrofac assets, and update the Social Performance Framework as part of a three-yearly review.
Social investment programmes For 2014, our spending on social investments reached The Framework is significant in three main ways: 1 US$4.1 million, up from US$1.9 million in 2013.
For those contracts primarily IES contracts where we have spend year-on-year was primarily a result of a significant increase direct accountability for managing social impacts, or a in activity levels in Mexico see below.
contractual requirement to do so, the Framework provides Most of this investment went to community development initiatives the necessary rigour.
It sets out our minimum requirements, in Mexico and Tunisia, where Petrofac operates long-term ensures that everyone is familiar with our commitments, and Production Sharing and Production Enhancement Contracts.
provides assurance that our obligations are being fullled.
In Mexico, for example, we are contractually committed to 2.
For other contracts such as EPC contracts the Framework spending 1% of our total annual expenditure on sustainable demonstrates to clients that we work responsibly.
This can be development initiatives.
In 2014, this amounted to just over particularly important during the construction phase of large US$3 million, and was primarily used to support education, health projects when heavy work commences, trafc and noise and public infrastructure needs in our four concession areas.
volumes increase, large numbers of workers are involved, andthe potential for negative impacts can escalate.
In line with our social performance objectives, our approach is to move towards more long-term, sustainable projects that support A good example is our work for BP on the Khazzan Central the livelihoods of local people and responds to issues identied Processing Facility in Oman.
Here, as part of the contract, we in Social Impact Assessments and through stakeholder dialogue have worked with our clients to develop a contractor grievance both of which are covered by guidance notes.
More specically, mechanism to ensure that any community-related concerns we want to prevent local communities from being overly can be raised easily and addressed quickly.
dependent on the oil and gas industry, and to support the 3.
The Framework can also provide additional reassurance to diversication of local economies.
institutions that provide finance for any projects we work on such as the International Finance Corporation, World Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Export Credit Agencies and the wider banking community.
Again, the Frameworks existence demonstrates that we have the right credentials to work in sensitive locations, and are capable of fullling internationally recognised social performance requirements.
1 From 2014, we are not including our investment in technical training centres.
In addition, we are no longer reporting sponsorship activities as a social investment, which were previously reported in the other category.
The 2013 gure quoted above is therefore US$2.8 million lower than reported in that years Annual Report and Accounts.
This enables us to report on a like for like comparison.
Petrofac 58 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Examples include: Looking towards long-term benets supporting entrepreneurialism in Tunisia In 2014, we helped six Our social investment spending continues to rise entrepreneurs to set up new businesses on Kerkennah Island.
This included modest grants to cover start-up costs, as well as 2013 US$1.9 million technical assistance to prepare business development plans 2014 US$4.1 million and secure nancing from third parties.
Examples include a Strategic Corporate Giving Community development boat construction and repair shop, a physiotherapy business and a plastic bottle recycling enterprise.
Petrofac will continue to provide business mentoring for these and other start-ups, and Community development we will monitor the longer-term impact on employment and the Spending on initiatives that benefit neighbouring and or impacted provision of local services.
communities in our areas of operation.
These initiatives are designed to create community benets over and above those supporting cocoa farming in Mexico We continued our threethat would automatically come from our standard project and year initiative to provide technical assistance and agricultural operational expenditure.
They are generally based on rigorous supplies to over 400 smallholders who farm more than 600 needs assessments to help local communities meet their longhectares, with a view to increasing cocoa yields and household term priorities.
During the year, we worked with Maxi Terra, a local expert agricultural organisation, to provide training to these Strategic corporate giving smallholders and understand further the challenges they face.
Spending on philanthropic initiatives that have altruistic aims but In 2015 we aim to set up a local school to provide group training.
nonetheless contribute to Petrofacs reputation.
These initiatives We will also conduct a preliminary assessment of the projects are typically implemented at a national or regional level, and are impact on cocoa yields.
managed by our local ofces.
Matched giving is also classied as During 2014, we enhanced the governance of our social part of our strategic corporate giving.
investment initiatives, to ensure that both Petrofac and our Note: from 2014, we are not including our investment in technical intended beneciaries can enjoy a decent return on our spending.
In addition, we are no longer reporting sponsorship This entails: activities as a social investment, which were previously reported rigorous community needs assessments to enable us to in the other category.
The 2013 gure quoted above is therefore develop appropriate strategies and pursue relevant plans US$2.8 million lower than reported in that years Annual Report and Accounts.
consistent criteria and implementation procedures to give clarity to all local groups who request support from Petrofac In 2014, 76% of our social investment was covered by a longterm strategic plan, mainly from our community development investments in Tunisia, Mexico and Romania.
We aim for all of our social investments to be governed by such a plan to ensure that our spending leads to tangible benets for those we support as well as for Petrofac.
In 2015 we will establish longterm strategic corporate giving plans in key operating centres in order to bring a continual improvement to this gure.
We will also continue the shift towards a smaller number of higher value social investment projects.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 59 Annual report and accounts 2014 During 2014, as a first step and with support from external Strategic corporate giving advisors, we conducted a thorough review of all our existing Petrofac has a formal corporate giving strategy, focusing on policies to identify any gaps or vulnerabilities.
We also engaged initiatives that: with a selection of internal stakeholders to assess their promote science, technology, engineering and mathematics understanding of human rights issues as well as any potential STEM education opportunities and challenges associated with the everyday, on-the-ground management and monitoring of our human improve access to education and employability for young people rights performance.
from marginalised groups This work concluded that the key human rights risks and In the UK, we have a long-standing partnership with the vulnerabilities for Petrofac in common with the oileld services Royal Academy of Engineering and, in 2014, our Group Chief sector as a whole relate to the management of large temporary Executive, Ayman Asfari was appointed a Fellow of the Academy.
workforces, particularly those working on projects that entail We support several of their initiatives, including: large numbers of contractors and subcontractors.
Assessing, extending our support of the Royal Academy of Engineering monitoring and mitigating the related risks is regarded as a key Fellowship Programme this programme provides funding for challenge for companies in our sector.
graduate engineers to pursue a one-year Masters programme In 2015 we plan to prioritise how we address the central findings in applied technical roles in the oil and gas industry.
We have of this review, beginning with explicitly stating our policy on participated in this programme since 2009 and, in 2014, a child labour, and reinforcing our social performance framework further five Fellows were supported bringing the cumulative total in this regard.
We will also address the other human rights of engineers supported by the Company to 27 considerations across the Group, and agree how to address extending our support of the STEM Teacher Connectors themost significant risks.
project this programme employs an expanding network of Teacher Co-ordinators, who provide local STEM teachers with free training, resources and networking opportunities.
In 2014 a further two co-ordinators were supported by Petrofac, bringing the total number of coordinators supported by the Company to four encouraging our employees to become STEMnet Ambassadors eight employees from our Woking ofces completed a STEMnet training course, to become STEM Ambassadors.
This means they can volunteer for local STEM initiatives such as careers talks and after-school clubs.
We plan to train more STEMnet Ambassadors in 2015 We expect to continue with this partnership during 2015 and beyond.
Managing and monitoring our human rights performance Petrofacs Ethical, Social and Regulatory Policy prevents us from engaging in any business activities that could implicate the Company either directly or indirectly in the abuse of human rights or the breach of internationally recognised labour standards.
As such, we respect human rights as set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as the core conventions of the International Labour Organization.
We also support the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Most human rights protections are implicitly covered in a range of Company policies and standards, such as our Code of Conduct, Social Performance Framework and HR policies.
However, in line with the GRI G4 reporting requirements, and in response to stakeholder expectations see the materiality matrix on page 49 we recognise the need to: become more explicit in our reporting on human rights issues demonstrate that we conduct due diligence in relation to human rights issues ensure that all related risks are appropriately monitored and managed Petrofac 60 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Economic performance As a global business, Petrofac operates across For example: many different countries and we always seek to we support the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, make a positive and tangible contribution to their which seeks to introduce country-by-country reporting, on respective economies.
payments made to governments in respect of companies extractive activities and were actively involved in developing Quantifying and maximising our in-country value therelated policies The concept of in-country value seeks to quantify the net contribution that Petrofac makes to the economies in which we contribute to research into the structure of business taxation and its economic impact by participating and contributing to we operate.
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development To date, this is most advanced in Oman, where the concept OECD, including public consultations into tax transparency, the of in-country value has Government backing and is dened issues surrounding base erosion and profit shifting BEPS and by the national authorities as the total spend retained in-country other proposed legislative initiatives that benets development, contributes to human capability and stimulates productivity in the economy.
we are members of a number of industry groups that participate in the development of future tax policy For all of our Omani projects, a formal In-Country Value Plan is therefore agreed with each client.
This sets out detailed targets 1 Our worldwide tax contribution total taxes paid for the employment and training of local people, the use of local suppliers and the procurement of local goods.
It may also 2013 US$912 million have various sustainability and social performance targets, 2014 US$720 million and will typically favour the use of local community contractors that is, those established by villages or settlements and Reecting public interest in the issue, the level and type of smaller businesses.
information we provide with respect to our total tax contribution We will then track our performance against the agreed targets and goes beyond the statutory requirements.
report back to clients on a monthly basis.
The details of each plan The total amount that we pay is not confined to the corporate remain condential.
However, in future years, we aim to become income tax disclosed within the financial statements.
The total more consistent in the way that we set and monitor targets, and tax collected includes payments made in respect of: corporate to share the lessons learned with projects.
income taxes, employee and employer taxes and social security All in all, the contribution from Petrofac to the Omani economy payments, VAT and sales taxes and other taxes such as is significant.
At the start of 2015, we were working on three large withholding, property and other indirect taxes.
The total taxes projects with a combined value of more than US$4.3 billion, and collected shows the contribution made by Petrofac in payments had agreed in-country value targets across every aspect to governments, so includes those taxes which are borne by of their delivery.
Petrofac, as well as those collected by Petrofac but recoverable from tax authorities or customers and suppliers.
VAT and sales In partnership with Takatuf Oman, we are also establishing the taxes are shown on an accruals basis which is not expected to countrys largest technical training centre.
With a planned capacity bematerially different to a paid basis.
of 1,000 students a year, this will train the energy workforce to international standards.
Tightening up on our supplier and contractor management Making a significant contribution As discussed in several sections of this report, we are bringing to publicnances greater consistency and rigour to our supplier and contractor Through the taxes we pay, Petrofac makes a significant financial management policies and procedures.
contribution to the public nances of the local economies in which we operate.
In 2014, the total amount paid to We continue to rene the way that we screen our third-party 1 governments in tax was US$720 million, comprised of corporate suppliers: suppliers and contractors have become a focus of income tax, employment taxes, other forms of tax and social our safety programmes: and the treatment of large, temporary security contributions.
workforces is at the heart of our plans to improve our reporting onhuman rights issues.
Over and above the monies we pay to and collect on behalf of revenue authorities, Petrofac supports a significant number of jobs Over the course of the year, we had a number of issues with through our supply chain.
unions representing parts of the workforce on Totals LagganTormore Shetland Gas Plant project.
While some of the disputes resulted in industrial action, we reached agreement with the Bringing more transparency to our tax reporting We are in favour of bringing more transparency and consistency unions without any significant stoppages.
to the way that companies report on their tax arrangements For 2014 we were not aware of any reported incidents of labour and payments.
rights impacts anywhere in our global operations.
1 Total taxes collected have not been subject to audit.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 61 Annual report and accounts 2014 In-country value: Wherever possible, Petrofac INSTEP Oil & Gas Training Centre delivers locally employing A prime example is our work with PETRONAS, and the 2014 opening of a brand new training localpeople, working with facility which is part of the Integrated Oil & Gas Training Centre at INSTEP or Institut Teknologi Petroleum PETRONAS on the east local contractors, and coast of Malaysia.
Guided by Petrofac Training Services PTS, the new facility was designed by Petrofac developing local capabilities.
Engineering & Consulting Services, and built using local contractors with PETRONAS project Management Team PMT overseeing the EPCC project.
It replicates a range of real-life upstream and downstream production facilities, including two full-scale offshore modules, a renery and a control room, plus engineering workshops and classrooms.
Looking at the production facilities, you might assume they were the real thing.
In fact, they are a cost-effective way to introduce aspiring oil and gas technicians to the realities of working onsite, and provide on-the-job training in a safe, controlled environment.
The facility also increases INSTEPs capacity to more than 1,500 trainees a year.
Having developed the training curriculum, PTS nowprovides expert trainers and will manage the upstream programme for an initial period of five years.
As a result, we are helping PETRONAS and the wider Malaysian economybenet from a steady stream of , locally-developed technical expertise.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train Petrofac 62 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Environmental protection We are committed to understanding and minimising Joint spill response exercise in Mexico the environmental impact of our business.
In September 2014, a joint spill response exercise was conducted at our Arenque operations in Mexico.
Helicopters, marine vessels, Petrofac is committed to operating its business in an spill containment booms, skimmers and other spill response environmentally responsible manner.
equipment were deployed to simulate a true-to-life scenario.
For 2014 our emphasis has been to enhance the consistency The exercise enabled us to assess our current capabilities in of our data collection and the quality of our reporting.
Based on responding to a major offshore emergency, and it involved the a clear understanding of our true environmental impact, we will Emergency Response Teams of our partners at PEMEX and be better positioned to benchmark our performance and bring Semar, as well as our own people.
The lessons learned will about progressive reductions to the environmental footprint of strengthen the emergency preparedness of all participants.
Our reporting principles and procedures Improving consistency across our operations With regards to our emissions, Petrofac is fully compliant with the During 2014, we developed a new Group Environmental Framework.
requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report This brings more rigour to our existing standards and ensures and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, which the Company that, right across our global operations, we have a consistent way complies with on a voluntary basis.
of understanding and managing environmental considerations.
To assure and validate our data collection processes in 2014 we To support the new Framework, we also developed a new employed the services of Ricardo-AEA, a specialist consultancy Group Environmental Data Reporting Guide, which means that to perform an independent review.
we now have an improved standardised way of measuring our To provide an accurate and consistent estimate of our environmental impact.
performance, we abide by the following principles: The content of this Guide is aligned with recognised international our emissions data is calculated in line with the principles reporting standards, such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the ofthe Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Global Reporting Initiative, the Petroleum Industry Guidance on Reporting Standard produced by the World Resources Institute Voluntary Sustainability Reporting and the UKs Greenhouse Gas and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Mandatory Reporting Guidelines.
aglobally recognised standard The Guide therefore provides us with a Group-wide standard for greenhouse gas emissions and our corporate carbon footprint our data reporting scope and boundaries, and includes consistent report are based on: denitions of our environmental performance indicators.
It is also supported by a Data Reporting Tool, enabling us to minimise for fuels and electricity use emission factors from the UK uncertainties and maintain consistency.
Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA Moreover, the Guide enables us to monitor and compare the for gas aring The American Petroleum Institutes respective performance of our operations, and helps us to SANGEA methodology manage and reduce our environmental footprint.
It will also allow us to report on our performance in accordance with the GRI for those operations that are jointly owned, we use an equity G4 guidelines.
share approach to account for emissions The Framework and the Guide will be implemented from the start those operations that are wholly controlled by third parties are of 2015. excluded from our reporting all Petrofac operational sites are included in this report Strengthening our spill-response measures During 2014, we implemented a range of activities to improve As well as calculating our own emissions, we also monitor and the way we respond to any unplanned hydrocarbon releases.
report on air emission data to our clients for the facilities we For example, we: manage on their behalf.
In the case of our North Sea operations, our monitoring meets the stringent standards of the Oslo-Paris reviewed and rened our existing spill-response procedures Convention.
In accordance with the European Environmental carried out detailed assessments of those sites that face the Emissions Monitoring System, we measure: greatest risk of spills all discharges of hydrocarbons, heavy metal and conducted onsite verication of compliance with our spillradiation contamination response procedures all air emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and volatile We also conducted 20 separate spill response exercises involving organic carbons both our own employees and our subcontractors.
These exercises Our environmental data collection and analysis enables us to will enable us to review our spill response procedures and develop monitor and improve on our energy use and waste management, a competent, trained team capable of effectively responding to which helps to minimise our related environmental impact.
For 2015, we will continue with a programme of capability reviews of our oil spill contingency Our environmental performance data is also made available to plans to demonstrate operational excellence.
various stakeholders to demonstrate that we comply with all related requirements, and show that Petrofac is fully committed toenvironmental protection.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 63 Annual report and accounts 2014 Energy efficiency is also a key consideration for many of our In addition to greenhouse gas emissions data, we collect data on the waste that leaves our facilities, which is typically segregated, projects.
For example, our design team generally works beyond customer requirements to optimise energy efficiency during the life measured and reported by category.
As standard practice, a waste management plan is developed for each of our projects, cycle of facilities.
which takes full account of prevailing regulatory requirements.
In one such case, we modied and re-engineered a standard In 2014, our waste segregation and recycling achievements were air-cooled heat exchange unit, which delivered an annual energy recognised by the Emirates Environmental Group EEG, a leading saving of 3,896 MWh equivalent to 2,627 tonnes of CO. 2 NGO operating in the UAE.
In another such case, our design team proposed an innovative Emissions and spills performance way to insulate pipework.
By reducing the amount of power We have been monitoring and reporting our carbon emissions needed for heat tracing, this resulted in an annual energy saving since 2008 and, in 2014, we saw a decrease in our emissions of more than 1,085 MWh.
In 2015, we will participate in the UK Energy Saving Opportunity Tonnes of carbon emissions generated Scheme ESOS, and carry out studies on energy consumption 000 tCO e 2 to identify opportunities for further improvements.
2010 214 Raising awareness and encouraging action 2011 227 To raise awareness of environmental issues among our 2012 202 employees, partners and local communities, we hold an 2013 285 annual Petrofac environmental month, and encourage our local 2014 264 operations to implement environmental initiatives.
In 2014, there As a condition of the mandatory reporting requirement of the Companies were many initiatives across the Group, which ranged from Act 2006, Petrofac must report its emissions in its annual report against an conserving marine biodiversity to improving waste management.
intensity metric that is representative of its business activities.
The intensity A few of the examples from 2014 include: ratio for 2014 is 42.22 tCO2e per million US$ revenue.
We have chosen to use tonnes million US$ revenue as this metric is the most representative across the entire business.
Reducing our carbon footprint Petrofac Emirates and its subcontractors instigated a wide-scale We continue to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project environmental campaign across the sites of the Bab-Habshan-1 CDP, which provides a global disclosure system for companies project and the Bab Gas Compression project in Abu Dhabi.
to report their environmental impacts and strategies in respect of To minimise carbon emissions, a 368kw solar park and solar greenhouse gas emissions.
For 2014 we received an improved powered street lighting system was installed at the site ofces.
CDP score, achieving a rate of 83 for disclosure compared with Meanwhile a tree-planting programme has brought 1,575 square 77 in 2013 and band B for performance.
Given that more than metres of greenery to the site, helping to minimise soil erosion, half of reporting companies are rated in band C or lower, it is clear provide sand screening and improve living conditions for the that Petrofac is outperforming many of our peers.
A month-long campaign on water conservation helped In 2014 we again participated in the UK Governments CRC the site to re-use 95% of its wastewater.
We are registered for Phase 2 of this scheme, and our UK-based assets complied with all of the Promoting biodiversity conservation related criteria.
Petrofac partnered with the UAE Ministry of the Environment and the Al Jazeera Diving and Swimming Centre to create an articial During the year, we experienced a slight rise in the number of reef six kilometres off the coast of the UAE.
reported oil spills associated with our operations.
Most of these spills involved less than one barrel of oil, and had a negligible The reef, which was constructed from 20 large 350kg concrete environmental impact.
Regrettably, we experienced 19 spills pyramids, will encourage the growth and development of involving more than one barrel.
One of these took place in the many marine organisms and, in turn, provide food, shelter and UAE, with all of the others occurring in Mexico and Romania.
As well as sponsoring the project, Petrofac staff In each case, the appropriate spill-response measures were participated in the installation of the pyramids.
implemented and a full investigation was conducted.
Meanwhile, in Mexico, Petrofac partnered with the National Forestry Commission, local authorities and communities on Continuing improvements in our energy efficiency a600-hectare mangrove conservation project.
Across our operations and projects, we have an on-going focus on how to improve our energy efficiency.
Involving younger generations in environmental protection At Petrofac Training Services, for example, a programme We understand that younger generations can play an important of initiatives resulted in an 8% reduction of overall energy role in the conservation of our environment, and in the UAE we consumption in 2014.
To achieve further savings, the Montrose encouraged children in our local communities to participate training facility, supported by external consultants, conducted in initiatives such as tree planting, quizzes, art competitions, energy modelling assessments and subsequently implemented awareness sessions and litter reduction drives.
In 2014 more a plan which is set to reduce consumption by more than 25% than500 children participated in such activities.
Petrofac 64 Annual report and accounts 2014 Environmental In designing our new protection: Petrofac JSD6000 deepwater installation vessel, We took, as our baseline, the ECO Rules of Lloyds Register, which set standards for the Petrofac JSD6000, we design, construction and operation, and wentwell beyond all statutory requirements.
wanted to be sure it would Environmental considerations therefore loom large in every facet of this remarkable vessel from energy consumption, to operational performance, to waste management, to living exceed the most exacting quarters and working conditions.
So, for example, this is the first vessel in the environmental standards offshore industry to deploy a fuel recovery separator system, which separates re-usable fuel from waste fuel oil.
It also uses highly whether existing, planned efficient selective catalytic reduction systems, which reduce NOx emissions by up to 90%.
It is powered by the latest generation orpotential.
of highly efficient common rail engines.
Innovative air conditioning techniques arealso used such as enthalpy recovery, absorption chillers, and mechanical ventilation, and low-energy LED lighting istted throughout.
Also, with such an array of on-board equipment and facilities, the Petrofac JSD6000 can operate autonomously.
With no need for a otilla of support vessels, costs are cut and environmental performance is lifted yet further.
Due to set sail in 2017, we are confident that the Petrofac JSD6000 will be considered the offshore industrys environmental benchmark for 30 years at least.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 65 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Ethics Ethical is one of the six Petrofac values.
Our Code of Speaking Up about any breaches of the Code Conduct the Code sets out the standards we insist upon.
We continue to draw attention to Speak Up our telephone, Everyone who works for and with Petrofac is obliged email and web-based service enabling any employee or third to uphold the Code and Speak Up if they suspect party to report suspected breaches of the Code.
Anyone can raise, in confidence, a possible breach of the It is vital for Petrofac to be and to be seen as an ethical Company.
Code from 19 locations in one of eight languages.
During the year, 46 suspected breaches were reported, each of which To achieve our business ambitions, we must be regarded as a was investigated, and all violations reported to the Board Risk trusted partner by clients, regulators across the world and NGOs.
Individuals found to be in serious breach of the Accordingly, we are bringing ever more rigour to our internal Code have had their employment terminated.
communication and employee education activities, as well as ourrelated certication and compliance programme.
During the year, we also reviewed and rened our Investigation Guidelines, which govern the way that we investigate any Giving clear guidance to employees suspected breaches of the Code.
During 2015, we will ensure and businesspartners that these are understood and followed by all relevant The Code, founded on the six Petrofac values, provides guidance departments such as the HR and Internal Audit teams.
to our employees and business partners.
Screening third-party suppliers The Code is clearly explained using easy-to-follow language.
and businesspartners Following the most recent review in 2013, printed copies were We continue to rene the way that we screen our third-party distributed to all employees and representatives, as well as to a suppliers in order to assess their level of technical, financial large number of third parties.
The Code is now routinely provided and reputational strength, and ensure their ethical standards to all new employees and newly contracted suppliers.
are consistent with our own.
Embedding the Code throughout our business In 2014, an area of emphasis was to work with our largest clients The emphasis for 2014 was to raise awareness of the Code and to ensure that our screening procedures meet their respective its requirements.
We launched a new e-learning course that brings the Code to During the year, we also conducted a thorough review of all our life through a range of everyday examples.
All employees and agent relationships.
We subjected each of them to due diligence contractors are expected to complete this programme.
To make and updated their respective contracts.
Any relationships it widely accessible and monitor levels of participation, we utilised that were deemed to be no longer appropriate or relevant our new web-based compliance portal.
The course was launched were terminated.
in June 2014 and, by the year-end, close to 14,000 of our Our aspiration for 2015 and beyond is to conduct a similar employees had registered and completed the training.
exercise among our service providers including freight forwarders and customs agents.
A disciplined certication process Upholding the Code and looking out for suspected breaches is a key accountability of all Petrofac managers from first-level supervisors right through to our executive leadership team.
In 2014 we continued to conduct the Annual Code of Conduct Certication process.
In addition to the mandate to our managers to certify to their own compliance to our Code and alert us of possible breaches, this year the process was modied to include questions on conict of interest and on the recording of gifts and entertainment.
More than 3,000 managers were required to confirm online that they had read and understood the Code and observed its requirements in all of their business dealings.
Petrofac 66 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance The development ofthe Companys governance framework has been extremely important and, throughout this report, there are examples ofhow we are endeavouring to attain our corporate goals whilst underpinning our core values.
Highlights of 2014 To ensure continued Board effectiveness, anexternal evaluation process was conducted during the year, which observed that the level of challenge, along with the openness ofcontribution, results in a positive dynamic at each meeting Succession planning for the Board and senior management remains a key focus toensure unforeseen changes are managed effectively and efficiently Initiatives to align our methodology for identifying, evaluating and managing risks have been adopted during the year to allow us to ensure that our internal control framework continues to evolve as the Company grows Several changes to the underlying bonus framework have been made which are intended to ensure there is increased transparency of individual outcomes inlinewith best practice developments Malus and clawback provisions are now inplace on all variable pay elements which Executive Directors are eligible to receive
