Our sustainability By embracing policies and behaviours that govern race, religion, ethnic or national origins, gender, sexuality, disability, class or age, working to the highest standards responsible conduct, the Company strives to create more valuable relationships with its stakeholders, enhancing trust across the Group.
by demonstrating its focus on, and management of, the Playtech operates in a highly competitive industry, where material non-financial risks in the business.
Playtech believes retaining key staff is a priority.
The Company provides financial that a responsible approach to these challenges, together rewards and a positive working environment, developing with risk assessment and mitigation, will positively impact its employees skills for improved performance and increased ability to succeed operationally and strategically.
Focus on sustainability Governance Playtech continues to improve its understanding and Playtechs Board is responsible for the Groups financial and monitoring of material non-financial risks, despite operating in operational performance, ensuring the continued success a highly-dynamic and rapidly-changing environment.
and sustainability of the business by directing and supervising Our programme to put in place consistent documentation the Companys policies and strategies.
and Group-wide policies and procedures as well as a number In an industry that continues to undergo significant structural of employee-related improvements was introduced in 2011. changes, the Boards role has never been more important.
Hilary Stewart-Jones, Deputy Chairman and Chairman The identification of significant risks facing the business, and of the Risk Committee, has Board-level responsibility processes to monitor and mitigate them, is covered in more forthe programme.
The issues of interest to the Companys stakeholders can be grouped into five areas: Marketplace Playtechs CSR marketplace metrics focus on stakeholder #1 Workplace perceptions of the Companys relationships with The well-being of our employees, and how we attract, licensees and its responsiveness to their requirements: develop and retain the best talent and on Playtechs relationships with regulators and other #2 Governance industry bodies.
Maintaining high standards of corporate governance to The Company will look to report on these in due course, monitor and mitigate risks associated with the business and include conduct surveys to ensure that it properly understands external perceptions of the business and #3 Marketplace manages its reputation.
Working with regulators, partners and licensees to further responsible gambling Customer service lies at the heart of Playtechs business, and Playtech strives to deliver a high quality service to its #4 Community licensees so that they can offer the best player experience.
Our broader community-related obligations in those locations The Company works to monitor customer satisfaction where our employees, business partners and licensees live levels across the licensee base as the retention of licensees and work is central to the sustainability of its business model.
Playtech places great value on its relationships with gambling #5 Environment regulators around the world and works with them to ensure Mitigating the Companys environmental impact, where all aspects of the business meet or exceed their standards.
relevant and appropriate, to reflect the nature and scale ofits business In a rapidly changing industry environment, where newlyregulating markets play a central role, it is critical that the Companys reputation as the best partner in the industry Workplace is maintained and promoted.
Playtechs customers are its Playtech understands that the success of its business is licensees and the Company plays a central role in helping due to the vital contribution made by its employees.
It is them to manage their gambling operations responsibly.
therefore essential to the Companys continued growth and The Companys approach to Responsible Gambling is development that it is able to attract and retain talented discussed in detail on page 31. employees who will contribute to the long-term success The Group has an experienced Head of Regulatory Affairs ofthe business.
and Compliance who focuses the Companys efforts on The Group is fully committed to equality of opportunity and regulatory matters, and this is of particular significance as dignity at work for all.
Its primary aim in this area is to recruit Playtech continues to expand its regulated markets offering.
the best and most appropriate employees, irrespective of 28 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 In 2014, Playtech employed an average of 3,972 Community people.
At the end of the year, total headcount was over The Company values the positive influence on its employees 4,220 people.
personal and professional development that can be found through volunteer work, and sees it as important for the Product development business over the long term.
The Companys employees are actively engaged in supporting charities and Playtech has Playtechs software business is structured along product expanded its Social Involvement programme to focus on lines, with separate business units for each product area, initiatives that deliver educational support and assistance to such as the IMS, casino, poker, bingo and sports, and disadvantaged children in those countries where the Group across the online, mobile and land-based delivery channels.
This structure aims to ensure that Playtech can manage the demands of increasing operational scale, as existing licensees In 2014 Playtech gave approximately 100,000 to charitable develop and new customers migrate to the Companys organisations working in the fields of education and research gambling platform.
into, and treatment of, problem gambling 2013: 170,000.
Playtech also provided non-financial support to these and In practice, this approach co-locates product teams so that, other community causes, including computer hardware, for example, those employees working on Playtechs casino employee time and training.
In April, Playtech employees in product are all located in Tartu, Estonia, with content and Bulgaria planted 700 trees in a local nature park as part of a software developers, quality assurance and product delivery wider conservation effort.
teams working closely together on the same office floor in line with best development standards.
This approach enhances collaboration and enables the team to quickly identify and Environment resolve any technical issues that may arise.
In comparison to other global companies, Playtech has a Playtech deploys a software delivery management process relatively low environmental impact, by virtue of the fact that it known as Next Generation Mobile using the most advanced is primarily an online business with a limited number of local mobile technologies, which has reduced the time-tooffice locations.
The day-to-day running of the business will market for new games and launch time for new licensees.
inevitably have an environmental impact, particularly in terms The Companys intelligent approach to managing project of energy consumption and travel, and the Company has put workflows is a significant competitive advantage when in place processes to monitor its carbon dioxide emissions compared to its peers.
from air travel and reduce any unnecessary travel.
Playtech has also looked to utilise outsourcing resources, Where it is necessary to take new office space, consideration or to deliver a greater ability to licensees to self-manage is made for the implementation of greater energy-efficient their content.
This greater degree of control has benefits measures.
In Estonia, the building was designed with a for the licensee in terms of faster deployment time for new highly efficient cooling system for the computer room, and content and helps to maximise the productivity of Playtechs in all new locations there has been a move to reduce energy development teams.
Playtechs R&D operations are among consumption.
With a ratio of employees to printers of over the biggest in the online gambling industry and employ over 30, the offices can be seen to be increasingly paperless 1,500 people, principally devoted to software development, environments.
In addition, bottled water has been largely of which over 350 are developing specifically for mobile.
replaced by water fountains, and where local schemes The scale of Playtechs R&D function helps it to maintain a exist, waste is separated and recycled, as are printer toner competitive advantage in technology innovation, content cartridges.
All offices have secure bicycle parking, and in development and product pipeline.
the UK, the Company participates in a scheme whereby employees can purchase a bicycle in a tax efficient manner.
The Companys extensive experience and capabilities enable In Israel, Estonia and Bulgaria the Company operates it to be agnostic to technology platform or system when a recycle programme separating bottles, papers and developing new solutions for licensees, so that it is able to other trash.
offer its market-leading products and services to the widest possible customer base.
This flexibility offers a substantial advantage as licensees increasingly look for a combination Locations and people of mobile, retail and more traditional formats forthe Playtech is headquartered in the Isle of Man and has same games.
offices in 15 other countries, including its principal software development centres in Estonia, Ukraine, the UK, Sweden and Bulgaria.
Live dealer facilities are located in Latvia and the Philippines.
A central finance function is located in Cyprus and marketing from Israel.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Our sustainability continued Customer service Welfare activities The service-orientated philosophy underpinning Playtechs Playtech recognises the value in keeping employees engaged content development activities is replicated in its product and and well motivated.
Welfare programmes run through infrastructure operations, with a team of over 150 people the year and are tailored to each country.
Each site has a providing a 24 7 support service to licensees.
generous budget for local activities such as team building, parties, birthday gifts and a yearly site trip.
During 2014, to From the beginning of every project, Playtech supports raise staff awareness of health issues, canteen menus were its licensees, drawing on its extensive experience.
adjusted to include more fruit, vegetables and healthy snacks.
Dedicated teams, staffed by professionals from all disciplines, In addition, employees are provided with sports facilities and provide complete project and launch management, assisting are supported in sporting endeavours such as Vertical Rush, with strategy and business planning, through to recruitment a sponsored run up the stairs of Tower 42 in London, the Kiev and team building.
marathon in which 30 Playtech employees participated and Playtech provides its customers operational teams with an Toughest a Swedish ultra endurance event.
intensive two-week training programme ahead of launch.
Thereafter, each licensee is assigned an experienced Employee performance account manager who provides day-to-day support and a While the development of market-leading software and point of contact.
Customers can draw on a pool of product and technology specialists to advise on any issues, and a products is at the heart of Playtechs growth, licensees naturally expect 24 7 operational performance and efficient consulting team provides value-added input to optimise the tools available on the Playtech platform.
The Companys business units are integral to ensuring Playtech meets the requirements of its licensees and employees are rewarded accordingly.
Valuing our people Playtechs appraisal system is based around individual Playtechs market-leading position is a significant asset in its business unit and Group-wide objectives, which are efforts to attract the best talent in the industry.
Candidates are directly aligned to Group strategy and specific areas of drawn to Playtech by the combination of its highly motivated, implementation and execution.
Employees have clearly entrepreneurial team culture, its breadth of knowledge and defined objectives and targets that are set in each review ability to harness cutting-edge technology.
This has also period, and their performance is routinely measured against been an important factor in Playtechs corporate acquisitions, these objectives.
where the potential to benefit from such a large and experienced support network has been a key discussion Employee remuneration includes competitive salaries, an point and decision factor for a management team assessing annual bonus, annual salary review, non-cash and ad-hoc the benefits of joining Playtech.
bonuses, which are set by reference to the achievement of the aforementioned objectives, and by the demonstration A formal onboarding process exists in Playtechs major of other competencies and contributions to the Group.
employment centres including various employee handbooks A revised long-term, share-based incentive scheme to attract and guides, formally structured meetings with HR, and the and retain the best operational and business managers was new employees line manager.
Additional training provides adopted in 2012. a broader overview of the Group and its culture, and any specialist technical training or regulatory training as required.
An employee of the quarter programme recognises exceptional performance with a small financial reward.
Playtechs culture focuses on the continued improvement of its workforce, driven by a strong ethos of innovation, Employee engagement surveys are conducted around the technological development and the delivery of marketbusiness and in Estonia, the Fish Programme, which has leading performance.
Many of Playtechs new employees been running for over 10 years has benefited both Playtech are referred by existing staff, reflecting the Companys focus Estonia and Videobet by improving retention.
on developing a close-knit, collegiate, corporate culture.
Ongoing training and career development are important Employee conduct elements of Playtechs sustainability efforts.
Playtech continues to monitor our Code of Conduct and During 2014 a group wide employee survey was conducted Anti-Bribery policy.
The aim of these policies is to: by an independent third party.
The results were analysed set standards of behaviour, organisational values and and will be used to influence Company polices and practices business ethics for Playtech: and going forward.
Training initiatives to ensure that both policies are communicated to and understood by employees are in place.
30 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Group contributes financially to the work of the Responsible gambling Responsible Gambling Trust formerly the Great Foundation Philosophy and GamCare, UK charities dedicated to supporting research Responsible gambling is an integral part of Playtechs into problem gambling, education and training.
institutional mindset and a significant factor in all of its Playtech is also an associate member of the World Lottery activities.
As a software provider, the Company is not Association WLA, the global professional association for typically directly in contact with players, but responsible state lottery and gambling organisations.
The WLA and its gambling nonetheless remains a fundamental issue for members are committed to maintaining the highest ethical the Company in safeguarding its business and reputation, standards of gambling.
and for the continued development of the industry in a sustainable manner.
Certification and regulation As a responsible supplier to the regulated gambling industry, Within PTTS, Playtech works with its licensees in relation Playtechs systems comply with all the guidelines published to player acquisition and retention, and is consequently by the variety of regulated jurisdictions in which its licensees dedicated, with its operators, to a substantial focus on operate.
The Company partners with regulatory and the proper management of the relevant responsible governmental bodies to ensure its systems are compliant.
Playtech is an executive member of the Remote Gambling Technology to support responsible gambling Association RGA, which has developed an industry code of The Companys fully-integrated management system practice on social responsibility and age verification, which the provides operators with the latest responsible gambling Company fully supports.
As part of the certification process, protocols.
Embedded systems and controls ensure fair play Playtechs games and their software engines including through fraud-detection services and facilitate responsible the random number generators are regularly tested and gambling tools for players and ensure a safe playing certified by leading industry bodies to ensure consistency environment for all.
Playtech also supports the Gaming Standards Every licensee is provided with Playtechs transparency Association, an organisation working towards global shared toolkit, which is embedded in the Companys software technology standards.
and includes viewable player protection content and the The Group holds a certificate of evaluation from the following elements: accredited testing facility TST which is part of Gaming compulsive gambling prevention Laboratories International GLI, the worlds largest independent gambling testing and certification laboratory.
age verification Playtech is certified and licensed by the Alderney Gambling deposit limits Control Commission AGCC, the United Kingdom Gambling Commission, the Direccin General fide Ordenacin del Juego bet limits DGoJ in Spain and the Malta Gaming Authority MGA.
session time limits Additionally in Italy, France, Estonia and Finland, Playtechs software has been reviewed and passed for use by the self-exclusion tools local regulators.
The Company also provides comprehensive training and Fraud, money laundering and fair play ongoing support to licensees to allow them to provide the An integral part of Playtechs technology platform is its ability maximum protection to their customers.
to monitor and identify potential fraud and money laundering.
Where Playtech provides external and or internal marketing Playtech employs a dedicated security team focused on services to a licensee, it puts in place clear protocols and ensuring that it is at the forefront of industry best practice in procedures for player engagement.
With comprehensive monitoring of transactions and platform provides tools to operators that can identify and gambling behaviour, licensees are able to ensure that players manage any player thought to be showing indications of cannot gain an advantage through unfair means.
This is a problem gambling, and regular dialogue, reporting and joint particular focus in player-to-player games such as poker, to training exercises with licensees address any concerns minimise any risk of player collusion.
This dialogue focuses on the early identification by the operator of the small percentage of players that have the potential, under certain circumstances, to develop gamblingrelated problems and the smaller group who demonstrate an inability to control their gambling habits or actions.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31
