Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Audit and Risk Committee report Remuneration report continued Internal control framework and activities performance, a procedure of ongoing control and authorisation of The management structure of the Group and internal policies and expenses is in place.
The current system of pre-approval of significant procedures are aimed at maintaining a robust control framework within transactions, along with accounting procedures in the ERP system, the Group which will result in the achievement of strategic objectives achieves a level of control over the amount and appropriateness within the set risk tolerance levels.
This framework includes: Treasury operations The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which is an appropriate tone set from the top Board level, aimed at building responsible for payments on behalf of all subsidiaries of the Group.
the appropriate control environment: Use of such a centralised system achieves the best level of control over a proper risk identification and management system for more detail the payments function without compromising the speed and reliability of payments.
All transactions with banks on accounts maintenance, please refer to pages 60-61 : deposits and borrowings and foreign currency transactions are also a strict division of responsibilities and adequate delegation performed at relevant headquarters level in compliance with the of authority: treasury policy approved by the Board.
Dear Shareholders specific control activities implemented at all levels of the Group: and Polymetals remuneration policy remains a key element in providing Controls over IT systems used in financial 2014 continued to be a challenging year for all mining companies a periodic review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
a clear framework to motivate, incentivise and retain our senior accounting and reporting when highly volatile movements in commodity prices forced the sector management team.
As disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report, Polymetal The Group uses a 1C: Enterprise 8 ERP system for the automation to continue focusing on controlling costs, producing robust operating The governance framework reflects the specific structure and fully complies with the new remuneration disclosure requirements and of everyday enterprise activities.
These include various business tasks performance and maintaining capital discipline.
At the beginning management of the Group, where authority and control are delegated the Companys remuneration policy and remuneration report were of the economic and management functions, such as management of 2014, the Remuneration Committee approved a salary increase by the Board to different levels, from the Group CEO to the managers approved, with 99.8% of votes cast in favour, at the AGM held in accounting, business accounting, HR management, supplier to Mr Nesis and the senior management team to bring their salaries of the Groups operating entities and then downward to business and May 2014. relationship management SRM and material requirements planning more in line with market practice.
This was the first salary review since project managers as appropriate.
Polymetal also uses the ERP system for budgeting, accounting, the IPO in November 2011.
Going forward, we as a Committee will continue to ensure the HR record-keeping and payroll, supply chain management, operational Within this framework, authority is delegated within clearly prescribed alignment of Board and senior management remuneration with the reporting and procurement.
The Group operates an IT management A significant Russian Rouble devaluation at the end of 2014 meant limits and decisions are escalated where either project size or risk Companys strategic objectives, as well as maintaining full transparency framework based on COBIT Control Objectives for Information and that the income of those employees, whose salaries are denominated profile require a higher level of authority.
In addition to controls operating to and open dialogue with our shareholders on executive pay.
Related Technology, which provides a complete set of high-level in Russian Roubles, significantly decreased when taking inflation in specific areas production, exploration, construction, procurement, requirements to be considered for effective control of each IT process.
the control framework also includes a set of common procedures for Remuneration philosophy financial accounting, reporting and budgeting see details below.
The focus on sustainable shareholder value creation is the cornerstone To remain competitive and attract and keep the most suitable UK Bribery Act 2010 of our executive remuneration system.
The Companys remuneration employees, in January 2015 the Remuneration Committee The Company and its Directors are committed to ensuring adherence The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been policy is set to ensure that Directors are fairly rewarded with regard to recommended to the Board a salary increase of 16.5% for all Group to the highest legal and ethical standards.
This must be reflected in or are being taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses in the Groups the responsibilities undertaken, and considers comparable pay levels employees whose salaries are denominated in Roubles, including every aspect of the way the Group operates.
Bribery is a criminal system of internal controls.
This has involved considering the matters in the countries of operation and the international mining industry.
the Group CEO Vitaly Nesis.
This increase was effective from offence in the countries in which the Group operates.
Corrupt acts reported to it and developing plans and programmes that it considers The executive remuneration strategy, and underlying policy, supports 1 February 2015. expose the Group and its employees to the risk of prosecution, fines are reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on the results of the review this by enabling the Company to attract and retain talent that will and imprisonment, as well as endangering the Companys reputation.
of risk management and internal control activities undertaken by the maximise shareholder value.
Corporate and individual performance Even allowing for the 16.5% increase, the salary of Mr Nesis in US The Group has a Code of Conduct in place, which refers to anti-bribery Board and the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board considers that the is taken into account in setting the pay level for the Group CEO, and Dollar terms decreased by 38% as at 1 February 2015 compared and corruption policy.
The policy extends across all the Groups risk management and internal control systems are in accordance with this is reviewed on an annual basis to ensure that it remains in line to 1 April 2014, when the annual salary increases were effective.
business dealings in all countries and territories in which the Group the Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Code.
with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity.
operates and applies to all employees of the Group, as well as relevant 2014 was the first year of implementation for our new Long-Term business partners and other relevant individuals and entities.
Financial reporting systems An external benchmarking is undertaken every three years in order to Investment Plan LTIP scheme.
In addition, 50% of bonuses awarded The quality of financial accounting and reporting is ensured through ensure comparability with other gold mining companies worldwide and to the Group CEO and the senior management team are deferred into The Board attaches the utmost importance to this policy and applies a set of control procedures in the following areas: accounting London-listed peers such benchmarking was last performed in 2012. shares in the Company.
a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption by any of methodology, preliminary review of new transactions, documentation, Remuneration levels for non-executive Directors are based on the Groups employees or by business partners working on the Groups accounting techniques and financial closing procedures.
comparable levels for companies of a similar nature, size and As a FTSE 250 company, whose shares are listed on the London Stock behalf.
The Policy prohibits the payment, offer or authorisation of bribes, complexity, and take into account specific responsibilities undertaken.
Exchange, we believe that our shareholders rightfully expect Polymetal the receipt or acceptance of a bribe, or the payment, offer or promise Accounting policies are developed centrally for each of the Groups to comply with the strictest of corporate governance requirements.
We to pay any facilitating payments.
Any breach of this policy is regarded subsidiaries and are adapted for the peculiarities of each entity and Context to the Committees decisions remain committed to full adherence to all regulatory requirements and, as a serious matter by the Company and is likely to result in Group-wide policies.
Employees responsible for accounting and In 2014, in addition to continued weakness in the commodities as such, also reflect this in our remuneration policies and decisions.
reporting functions have powers to review upcoming transactions and markets, we witnessed major macroeconomic and geopolitical issues propose adjustments, where necessary, to ensure proper accounting in Russia and Kazakhstan.
At Polymetal, we continued to concentrate As a result, we consistently receive over 95% of votes in favour As part of its implementation of internal procedures to comply with and tax treatments.
The use of a centralised Enterprise resource on controlling costs, delivering robust operating performance and of AGM resolutions related to remuneration and to the reappointment the UK Bribery Act, the Group has a formalised whistle-blowing policy planning ERP system in each of the Group companies ensures maintaining capital discipline.
We have also been able to significantly of Directors.
This unequivocal backing from shareholders in support which describes processes in place for staff to communicate, unification of the business and accounting processes.
The Group expand the Companys reserves and life-of-mine by acquiring the Kyzyl of the Companys decisions is very heartening as we strive to develop in confidence, concerns about possible improprieties, unethical or implements a multi-level set of controls over financial and accounting project in Kazakhstan.
However, despite resilient operating and cost our remuneration policies in line with best practices, and align them illegal activities and ensures that arrangements are in place for the data recorded in the system.
These controls involve the accounting performance, the financial results of the Company in 2014 continued with business strategy and performance.
independent investigation of such matters.
department of each subsidiary, senior management of the subsidiary to be affected by the market conditions.
Our net profit decreased and controls at the relevant headquarters level.
In addition, the on the back of significant decline in commodities prices, however we The Company affirms that it has not denied any personnel access accounting and reporting data are regularly audited by internal were able to sustain free cash flow as a result of decreases in capital to the Audit and Risk Committee and that it has provided protection and external auditors.
expenditure and production growth and, as a result, pay regular to whistle-blowers from adverse personnel action.
Procedures for approval of capital and The Code of Conduct is available on the website.
Copies of the current expenditures anti-bribery and corruption policy and the whistle-blowing policy The Company prepares annual operating and capital expenditure are available on request from the Companys offices.
budgets based on its current and strategic goals and objectives.
In addition to periodic control of actual versus budgeted financial 76 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 77 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Remuneration report continued Another challenge was to stay on top of the changing remuneration Changes during the year Directors remuneration policy disclosure requirements and ensure that all procedures put in place are Polymetal made no changes to its existing executive remuneration Shareholders approved the Companys remuneration policy at the AGM on 21 May 2014 and it is expected to cover a period of three years from fully compliant with the applicable regulations and best practices.
The Companys remuneration policy was approved that date.
The policy applies from the date of approval.
priorities are reflected in our remuneration decisions when awarding by shareholders at the AGM 2014 and came into effect immediately performance bonuses to the Group CEO and senior employees and after.
It will continue to apply for the next three years, ending in May 2017. reviewing their base salaries.
Element and purpose Performance metrics used link to strategy Operation Opportunity and period applicable Approach to disclosure Key Committee decisions This Report sets out the Companys remuneration policy and Executive Director Group CEO implementation for its Directors and provides details of their In 2014 the Remuneration Committee concentrated on implementing remuneration and share interests for the year ended 31 December the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, which was supported by 99.8% Base salary The Committee reviews base salary Over the policy period, base salary for Not applicable.
The Board believes that for a Company whose shares are of shareholders who voted on it.
The plan includes a total shareholder on an annual basis, taking into the Group Chief Executive Officer will listed on the London Stock Exchange it is expected that the To attract and return TSR underpin stipulating that no options will vest in the account general economic and be set at an appropriate level within retain high-calibre Directors remuneration policy and annual remuneration report of the market conditions, underlying Group the peer group and will increase in line event that TSR for the period is negative.
Other features include the executives.
Company should be approved by shareholders, and it is an element performance, the level of increases with base salary increases for the mandatory deferral of 50% of annual bonuses for three years, to be of good corporate governance for the Company to seek this.
made across the Group as a whole, wider workforce, except where a paid in shares: clawback provisions: a one-year holding period for all the remuneration of executives in change in the scope of the role occurs.
LTIP and a substantial minimum shareholding requirement for the As there were no changes to the Directors remuneration policy similar positions in FTSE 250 and Companys executives.
The annual base salary for the this year we will not be putting it to a binding shareholder vote.
global mining peers, and individual reporting year and the current year Due to unfavourable market conditions, the Remuneration The Directors annual remuneration report will be put to an advisory performance when setting base salary is set out in the Annual Report shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting of the Company Committee decided that any significant changes to the existing for the following year.
approach to the remuneration of Directors and senior officers of the on 20 May 2015.
Company in 2014 would be inappropriate.
Benefits The Group does not provide any Not applicable.
On behalf of the Committee, I welcome feedback from shareholders The Committee approved the increase in the Rouble-denominated benefits for its Group CEO.
and look forward to receiving your support at the AGM.
Group Chief Executive Officers base salary for 2014 by 8% from 1 April 2014 there was no increase in 2013 versus 2012 and 2011, Pension The Group does not fund any pension Does not exceed the mandatory Not applicable.
which partially compensates for the more significant depreciation of contributions or retirement benefits, contribution made to the pension To provide funding the Rouble against the US Dollar 14% and inflation.
The US Dollar except contributions to the mandatory fund of the Russian Federation.
equivalent of the Chief Executive Officers base salary decreased pension fund of the Russian Federation, Currently 10% of total pay.
as required by Russian law.
The Group pays defined contributions Due to the rapid devaluation of the Rouble in Q4 2014, there was Leonard Homeniuk of 10% of total pay to the mandatory a further salary review for all employees who were paid in Roubles, Chairman, Remuneration Committee pension fund.
This permits retiring resulting in a further 16.5% increase in Rouble terms for Group CEO employees to receive a defined pay effective from 1 February 2015. monthly pension for life from the An annual bonus representing 90% of the maximum available statutory pension fund.
amount was awarded to the Chief Executive Officer in respect of 2014.
Annual bonus The annual bonus result is determined Maximum bonus opportunity The annual bonus is earned on the by the Committee after the year end, 150% of base salary.
basis of the achievement of a mix of To focus on based on performance against financial and non-financial measures.
achieving annual Target bonus opportunity defined targets.
performance goals, 100% of base salary.
For 2014, performance metrics and which are based Annual bonuses are paid three months associated weightings for each were: Threshold Nil annual bonus for on the Groups key after the end of the financial year threshold performance.
production 30% : performance to which they relate.
indicators KPIs total cash costs 30% : 50% of the annual bonus earned is and strategy.
paid in cash and the remaining 50% completion of new projects on time is compulsorily deferred into shares and within budget 30% : and which are released annually to the employee over the next three years health and safety 10%.
in equal instalments through the The Committee has discretion to vary Deferred Share Awards plan DSA.
the weighting of performance metrics Details of the DSA are set out on the over the life of this remuneration policy.
In addition, the Committee has discretion to vary performance metrics part-way through a performance year if there is a significant event which causes the Committee to believe that the original performance conditions are no longer appropriate.
Performance is measured over the financial year.
78 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 79 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Remuneration report continued Element and purpose Performance metrics used Element and purpose Performance metrics used link to strategy Operation Opportunity and period applicable link to strategy Operation Opportunity and period applicable Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Minimum The Group CEO is required to build 500% of base salary for the Not applicable.
shareholding a minimum shareholding over a Group CEO.
Deferred Share 50% of the annual bonus earned is Entitlement to this deferred Awards plan DSA paid in cash and the remaining 50% component is subject to continued To strengthen Unvested shares under the PSP or is compulsorily deferred into shares employment over the deferral period.
alignment between DSA are not taken into account when Deferral to which are released annually to the interests of calculating progress towards the encourage retention In normal circumstances, Deferred employee over the next three years executive Directors minimum shareholding requirements.
and alignment with Share Awards will continue until the in equal instalments.
normal time of vesting upon cessation For the purposes of determining shareholders.
Malus provisions apply for the of employment in Good Leaver whether the requirements have been unvested portion of the DSA: the Circumstances.
Alternatively, the met, share price is measured at the Remuneration Committee may, at Board may determine that Deferred end of each financial year.
any time up to and including vesting, Share Awards will vest immediately.
Post vesting and tax, all shares reduce the number of shares that In both circumstances there would be acquired under PSP and DSA awards vest, should material misstatement, no pro-rating of the Deferred Share must be retained until the shareholding misconduct and or a failure of risk Awards for the time from the award requirement is met.
date until cessation of employment or for performance.
Dividend equivalents will be received Non-executive Directors on vested shares, reflecting the value No performance conditions apply of dividends which have been paid to the Deferred Share Awards.
Fees for The fees of independent nonFees are reviewed, but not necessarily Not applicable.
during the period from the grant date non-executive executive Directors are set by increased, on an annual basis.
Directors reference to those paid by other Any increase in non-executive FTSE 250 mining companies.
To attract and Director fees will normally be in line Performance Under this plan, annual rolling awards Maximum grant permitted under Vesting is based on relative TSR, retain high-calibre Fees are set to reflect the with base salary increases for the wider Share Plan PSP are made with a four-year vesting the plan rules is 200% of salary.
measured against the constituents of non-executive responsibilities and time spent workforce, except where a change period and an additional mandatory the FTSE Gold Mines Index, and also To provide Normal grant level is expected Directors.
by the non-executive Directors in the scope of the role occurs.
holding period of one year on the Companys absolute TSR.
long-term alignment to be 150% of base salary.
on the affairs of the Company.
Current fee levels are set out in the with shareholders Peers are ranked and the Companys Threshold vesting is equivalent No fees are paid to non-independent Annual Report on Remuneration.
Stretching performance targets position determines vesting: to 20% of the award.
reward participants for delivering 0% vests for below positive absolute and superior Dividend equivalents will be received Non-executive Directors are not median performance: relative total shareholder return TSR on vested shares, reflecting the value eligible to receive benefits and performance against global peers of dividends which have been paid do not participate in incentive or 20% vests at median performance: over a long-term period.
during the period from the grant date pension plans.
100% vests at top decile to the vesting date.
Malus provisions apply for the The Chairman receives a base fee only.
performance and above: and unvested portion of the PSP: the The following fees are paid in addition Remuneration Committee may, no award will vest if absolute to the non-executive Director base fee: at any time up to and including TSR is negative, regardless of vesting, reduce the number Committee chairmanship fee: relative performance.
of shares that vest, should material The Committee may substitute, vary Committee membership fee: and misstatement, misconduct, and or or waive the performance targets a failure of risk management occur.
Board and Committee if an event occurs which causes the attendance fee.
Retesting of the performance Committee to consider that the target conditions in future years is not is no longer appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee allowed under any circumstances.
The Committee has discretion to vary determines the framework and broad First grant under the PSP was made the proportion of awards that vest, to policy for the remuneration of the in April 2014. ensure that the outcomes are fair and Chairman.
The remuneration of appropriate and reflect the underlying non-executive Directors is a matter financial performance of the Group.
for the Chairman of the Board and the executive members of the Board, i. e. the Group CEO.
Directors do not participate in discussions relating to their own fees.
80 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 81 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy for other employees Illustration of application of remuneration policy The remuneration policy for the other members of the Companys executive team and broader management team of the Group is consistent in The composition and structure of the remuneration package for the Group CEO under three performance scenarios Maximum performance, both structure and KPIs with the policy in respect of the Group CEO.
Whilst the value of remuneration will vary throughout the Group, depending Target performance and Minimum performance is set out in the charts below.
upon the individuals role, criticality to the business and level of seniority, the remuneration of all senior executives consists of a base salary, an annual bonus and participation in the new LTIP the PSP and DSA.
Employees up to three levels below the Board approximately 300 employees This chart shows that the proportion of remuneration delivered through short-term and long-term incentive schemes is in line with our remuneration throughout the Group participate in the LTIP at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The PSP policy grant level is 150% of base policy and changes significantly across the three performance scenarios.
As such, the package promotes the achievement of both short-term and salary for the Group CEO, 100% for Executive Committee members and 50-100% for employees of the level below the Executive Committee.
long-term performance targets and drives the alignment of the Group CEOs interests with the interests of shareholders.
Shareholding requirements are also set below Board level.
The DSA operations mirror the arrangement set out for executive Directors in the policy table, where 50% of the annual bonus is compulsorily deferred into shares and released annually to employees over a period of three years.
Remuneration policy US$m Remuneration policy for the wider group of employees is aimed at aligning pay with the achievement of targeted results for each employee.
The Maximum Companys policy on fair pay provides for the payment of additional remuneration for employees living in difficult climatic locations and the delivery of appropriate levels of pay for different levels of work.
The bonus component of remuneration for mid-level management and operational staff 29% 33% 38% Total US$1.3 million is measured based on the achievement of production targets, increasing output, the level of justified cost savings and health and safety records.
In terms of pension arrangements, the Company applies a consistent approach for the Group CEO and other employees and adheres to the Target mandatory pension contributions required under applicable laws.
46% 41% 12% Total US$0.8 million Salaries are considered for annual increases based on the Companys performance results, inflation rates and the competitive level of salaries versus the wider market.
Minimum Notes to the policy table 100% Total US$0.4 million Performance measures and targets The Committee selected the performance conditions indicated in the policy table because they are central to the Companys overall strategy, 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 and are the key metrics used under the annual bonus and LTIP by the Group CEO to oversee the operation of the business.
Fixed elements of remuneration Single year variable Multiple year variable Performance targets for all our incentive plans are reviewed annually, and where appropriate are typically set at a level that is in line with the Companys forecasts.
Note: Scenario values are translated at the 31 December 2014 Rouble US Dollar closing exchange rate of 56 1.
Changes to remuneration policy for 2015 The scenarios are defined as follows: Design element Changes made during the year Rouble-denominated salaries increased for all employees by 16.5%, effective from 1 February 2015.
Minimum On-target Maximum Base salary Note that in US Dollar terms the Group CEO salary has decreased by 38% compared to 1 April 2014 Fixed elements Base salary and pension Annual bonus No changes made.
50% of bonus deferred into shares as required by the DSA First grants of options were made under the new PSP plan in April 2014.
A new tranche of options Single year Performance against Performance against financial Performance against financial KPIs is above LTIP is expected to be granted in April 2015 variable financial KPIs KPIs is at budgeted levels.
Non-executive Directors No changes made is below budget Full achievement of non-financial KPIs.
Full achievement of non-financial KPIs.
100% of base salary payout 150% of base salary payout The new LTIP Non-achievement of 77% of maximum opportunity.
Following shareholder approval at the AGM in June 2013, a new long-term incentive programme the Performance Share Plan or PSP was Includes DSA awards.
put in place after the vesting of awards under the previous Long-Term EIP for those participants who have waived their rights under the EIP.
Some minor amendments to the LTIP were approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2014.
Multiple year Share price Scenario is based on 150% policy awards.
Share price performance is in the top decile The key terms of the new LTIP are described in the policy table above.
variable performance is of FTSE Gold Mines Index constituents.
Share price performance is at median below the median of FTSE Gold Mines Index constituents.
Shares equivalent to 150% of base salary vest The Board believes that the new LTIP ensures continued alignment of the executive teams performance with shareholder interests and rewards of FTSE Gold Mines under the PSP 100% of total shares available.
Shares equivalent to 30% of base superior long-term performance and the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Board also believes that the LTIP is in line with UK best Index constituents.
salary vest under the PSP practice and follows fully the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and other relevant guidelines, while also containing features which No shares vest.
are superior to common practice in the UK such as a positive TSR underpin for vesting of the LTIP.
No allowance has been made for share price appreciation or for the payment of dividend equivalents.
Non-executive Directors do not receive performance-related pay.
Their fees are disclosed in the policy table on page 81.
82 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 83 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Remuneration report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration The table below summarises the key elements of the executive Director service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office.
The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive overall package as appropriate to attract and motivate the right talent for the role.
If an executive is promoted to the Board from within the Company, any pre-existing awards or benefits that were made available Area Policy and operation to him or her prior to becoming a Director and not in anticipation of an imminent promotion to the Board will be retained and allowed to vest or be provided under the original terms.
Notice period Polymetal International JSC Polymetal 6 months from Company With immediate effect from Company The following table sets out the various component, which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an executive Director.
Any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements, be set at a level consistent with the scope 6 months from Director 1 month from Director of the role at a level not exceeding that of the Group CEO as set out in the remuneration policy table and be subject to the same constraints as those of existing Directors performing similar roles, as shown below.
Compensation for No entitlement in respect of directorship of Polymetal International.
loss of office in Up to three times average monthly salaries in respect of directorship of JSC Polymetal.
service contracts Area Policy and operation Treatment of annual Where an executive Directors employment is terminated after the end of the performance year, but before the payment Base salary The base salary level will be set by taking into account the experience of the individual and the salaries paid bonus awards of the annual bonus is made, the executive may be eligible for an annual bonus award for that performance year subject to and benefits in comparable companies.
an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment, the Committee may choose to set the base salary Where an executive Directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro-rated annual bonus award for below market median and increase the amount paid over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the period worked in that performance year may be payable, subject to an assessment based on performance achieved the role with reference to the experience and performance of the individual, subject to the Companys ability to pay.
In line with the remuneration policy, as set out in the Directors remuneration policy table, no benefits will be provided Treatment of In normal circumstances, Deferred Share Awards will continue until the normal time of vesting upon cessation of to recruited Directors.
unvested Deferred employment in Good Leaver Circumstances.
Alternatively, the Board may determine that Deferred Share Awards will vest Share Awards immediately.
In both circumstances there would be no pro-rating of the Deferred Share Awards for time from the award Pension Pension contributions will be limited to the mandatory contributions required by Russian or any other applicable law, under plan rules date until cessation of employment or for performance.
as set out in the Directors remuneration policy table.
Treatment Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Group, unless the cessation is due to death, injury, Annual bonus The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the Directors remuneration of unvested ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances which the Committee determines, when the award policy table.
The maximum annual opportunity is 150% of base salary.
Performance will vest as normal in accordance with the terms of the award.
50% of any bonus is deferred into shares under the DSA, as set out in the Directors remuneration policy table.
Share Plan awards Alternatively, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the award will vest immediately, with the proportion under plan rules determined by the Committee, taking into account where relevant the extent to which the performance conditions have been Long-term The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the LTIP at the Remuneration Committees discretion in line with the met or are likely to be met at the end of the performance period, and any other factors the Committee may consider relevant.
incentives details set out in the Directors remuneration policy table.
The maximum annual grant permitted under the scheme rules is 200% of base salary and the normal grant level is up to 150% of base salary.
Performance measures would apply, The number of shares shall also normally be pro-rated down to reflect the reduced service period.
as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Exercise of Any discretion available in determining the treatment of incentives upon termination of employment is intended only to be Replacement The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous in terms of discretion relied upon to provide flexibility in unusual circumstances.
awards quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited as a consequence of the individual joining the Company.
The Committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Directors departure and the In determining the quantum and structure of any replacement awards, the Committee will seek to replicate the fair value recent performance of the Group.
and, as far as practicable, the timing, form and performance requirements of the forfeited remuneration.
The maximum value of replacement awards is capped at 50% of the individuals base salary, and at least 50% of any replacement award Change of control In relation to Performance Share Plan awards in the event the Companys shares cease to trade on the London Stock should be delivered in the Companys shares.
Exchange or any other recognised stock exchange Delisting or the Directors of the Company pass a resolution to the effect that Delisting is imminent or where the Board determines that a significant event has occurred, which may be a Other Should relocation of a newly recruited executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will demerger, winding up or compulsory acquisition of the Company, or any other event as determined by the Board, at the be met by the Company.
Such relocation support may include, but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, discretion of the Board and, where applicable, with the consent of the acquiring company, PSP Awards will not vest temporary accommodation hotel costs, a contribution to stamp duty, and replacement of non-transferrable household but will be exchanged for new PSP awards.
In addition, and in appropriate circumstances, the Committee may grant additional support in relation to the payment of school fees and the provision of tax advice.
In the event that the PSP Awards are exchanged for new PSP awards: The Company will reimburse the executive Director for all reasonable expenses which he she may incur while carrying out the award date of the new PSP award shall be deemed to be the same as the award date of the original PSP Award: executive duties.
the new PSP award will be in respect of shares in a company determined by the Board which may include any Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office acquiring company: Loss of office policy the new PSP award must be equivalent to the PSP Award and will vest at the same time and in the same manner The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take into account individual circumstances, including as the PSP Award: and the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties and applicable share plan and pension scheme rules including any relevant performance conditions.
where relevant, either the vesting of the new PSP award must be subject to any performance conditions which are, so far as possible, equivalent to any conditions applying to the PSP Award, or no performance conditions will apply but Vitaly Nesis is an Executive Director and Group CEO of Polymetal International plc and CEO of JSC Polymetal, a 100% subsidiary of the Group the value of shares comprised in the new PSP award shall be the value of the number of shares which would have vested incorporated in Russia.
Further details are set out in the Current Directors service contracts section below.
under the PSP Award if they had not been exchanged for new PSP awards.
Deferred Share Awards shall vest immediately and shall not be pro-rated for time or performance if any of the events referred to above occur.
84 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 85 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Remuneration report continued Current Directors service contracts Annual report on remuneration Group CEO Single total figure of remuneration audited information US$ The table below highlights key elements of the service contract of the Group CEO with JSC Polymetal, the Russian holding company of the Group The table below sets out 2014 remuneration for the Group CEO.
The Group CEOs remuneration is denominated in Russian Roubles and converted where he holds the CEO position: to US$ for presentation purposes.
The approach to exchange rates and Russian Rouble remuneration equivalent is set out in the footnote 2 to this table.
Date of contract 1 September 2013 Expiry of term 31 August 2018 Performance Share Plan 1 3 Base salary Taxable benefits Annual bonus PSP Pension Total Payment in lieu of notice None Pension None, except for defined contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the Russian Federation 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 392,499 434,148 475,630 599,624 39,661 47,800 907,790 1,081,572 Mr Nesis entered into an appointment letter as amended with the Company in relation to his appointment as a Director.
This appointment took 1 50% of the bonus received in 2014 has been deferred into 22,178 shares on 11 March 2015 at 5.37 RUB 412 per share using average price for the 90-day period ending 31 December 2014. effect from the date of admission of shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 28 October 2011 and is subject to annual re-election.
In line with policy, deferred shares will be released in equal tranches over a period of three years in March 2016, March 2017 and March 2018 and are not subject to further performance conditions.
Mr Nesis does not receive any fees in respect of his appointment as a Director of Polymetal International plc but is entitled to reimbursement 2 The amounts are translated at the average rates of the Russian Rouble to the US Dollar for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
3 of his reasonable expenses incurred in relation to the carrying out of his duties as a Director.
The appointment of Mr Nesis as a Director may be No PSP awards vested or exercised in the year.
terminated at any time in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Mr Nesis can terminate his appointment as a Director on six months notice.
He is not entitled to receive any compensation in respect of his role as Director on termination of this appointment.
Details of total fees paid to non-executive Directors and the Chairman during 2014 and 2013 are set out in the table below: Following the expiry of the previous five-year employment contract, on 23 August 2013, JSC Polymetal, a 100% indirect subsidiary of the Total fees Company incorporated in Russia, entered into an employment contract with Mr Nesis as its Chief Executive Officer.
The contract became effective US$ 2014 2013 on 1 September 2013.
The contract was entered into for a period of five years and expires on 31 August 2018.
Under the terms of the contract the Chief Executive Officer undertakes to perform general management of JSC Polymetal a subholding company which provides management Bobby Godsell 472,432 450,999 services to each of the Groups subsidiaries and arrange for its commercial, economic, social and other activities with a view to providing for Jonathan Best 286,368 270,762 JSC Polymetals further development.
The employment contract does not contain any specific grounds for early termination.
The contract can be Russell Skirrow 221,784 212,516 terminated at any time on one months notice by Mr Nesis and with immediate effect by JSC Polymetal in accordance with Russian labour and civil law.
This could result in compensation of three average monthly salaries.
Leonard Homeniuk 256,625 242,265 Charles Balfour 119,886 264,398 The full terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office in Jersey.
Christine Coignard 136,777 Non-executive Directors Konstantin Yanakov Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Rather, the terms of their appointment are set out in letters of appointment.
The appointment Marina Grnberg of each of the non-executive Directors took effect from admission until the next AGM of the Company, subject to annual re-election.
The appointment Jean-Pascal Duvieusart of any non-executive Director may be terminated at any time in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The appointment of each non-executive Director may be terminated by either party on one months notice.
A non-executive Director is not entitled to receive any compensation on termination Total non-executive fees 1,493,871 1,440,940 of his or her appointment.
Each non-executive Director is subject to confidentiality restrictions without limitation in time.
Note: The amounts for 2014 and 2013 are translated at cross-rates of the British Pound and the US Dollar to the Russian Rouble stated by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation at the dates of each payment.
The full terms and conditions of appointment of all the Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office in Jersey.
Single total figure of remuneration additional information audited information Dates of contract or appointment for non-executive Directors are set out in the table below: Annual bonus targets and outcomes The targets for annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that their disclosure may provide to the Director Date of contract or appointment Notice period Companys competitors, given that these competitors are largely based outside of the UK and hence are not subject to the same reporting requirements as the Company.
Performance against these targets is set out below: Bobby Godsell 29 September 2011 1 month Charles Balfour 29 September 2011 21 May 2014 1 month Measures Weight Below Target Maximum Konstantin Yanakov 29 September 2011 1 month Achieving production budget 30% Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 29 September 2011 1 month Total cash cost per ounce of gold equivalent produced 30% Marina Grnberg 29 September 2011 1 month Completion of new projects on time and within budget 30% Jonathan Best 29 September 2011 1 month Health and safety 10% Russell Skirrow 29 September 2011 1 month Leonard Homeniuk 29 September 2011 1 month This resulted in the Group CEO receiving a bonus of 90% of maximum opportunity for the year which constitutes 117% of his base salary or Christine Coignard 1 July 2014 1 month US$475,630.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee consults with the Companys major shareholders regularly, and seeks their feedback on the Group CEOs remuneration policy.
In 2014, the Company put the Directors remuneration policy to a binding shareholder vote and received 99.8% of votes in favour.
The Directors annual remuneration report was put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM of the Company and received 99.8% support.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group In determining salary increases for the Group CEO, the Committee takes into account a range of factors, including overall base salary increases awarded to the wider employee population during the year.
The Committee does not directly consult with employees on the appropriateness of the Group CEOs pay arrangements, but any comments received by the Company will be considered.
86 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 87 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Remuneration report continued LTIP Group CEOs pay in last five years Deferred Share Awards plan In accordance with the Companys DSA, Mr Nesis received a conditional award of 22,178 shares.
Shares are released annually over the next three US$ 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 years in equal instalments March 2016, 2017 and 2018.
Group CEO total remuneration 907,790 1,081,572 1,037,413 1,138,013 248,565 1 Annual bonus % of maximum 90% 88% 90% 137% Performance Share Plan Under the PSP, a conditional award of 74,165 ordinary shares with no par value was made to Mr Nesis.
It is exercisable following a four-year vesting LTIP award % of maximum period, subject to performance measures determined by Polymetal.
For this award, vesting is based on relative TSR, measured against the 1 An additional bonus was awarded by the Remuneration Committee to Mr Nesis for the successful IPO of the Company in November 2011.
Mr Nesis was required to devote a significant amount constituents of the FTSE Gold Mines Index, and also on the Companys absolute TSR.
Peers are ranked and the Companys position determines of time above and beyond his normal day-to-day responsibilities as CEO to successfully bring about the IPO.
Excluding the additional bonus, the annual bonus comprised 49% of maximum vesting 0% vests for below median performance: 20% vests at median performance: 100% vests at top decile performance and above.
No award will vest if absolute TSR is negative, regardless of relative performance.
Percentage change in Group CEOs remuneration Scheme interests awarded during the financial year Excluding the value of long-term incentives, the percentage change in total remuneration for the Group CEO was a 16% decrease from No other share awards were made to the Group CEO in 2014.
10,027 shares will be allotted after the publication of the Annual report in April 2015.
US$1,081,572 in 2013 to US$907,790 in 2014 due to the significant devaluation of the Russian Rouble against the US Dollar.
In Rouble terms the Group CEO total remuneration for 2014 increased by 1% compared to 2013.
The average percentage change in total remuneration for all Total pension entitlements audited information employees in the year was a 17% decrease mainly driven by the same factor.
Save for the Groups defined contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the Russian Federation during the financial year ended 31 December 2014, no amounts were set aside or accrued by the Group to provide pension, retirement or other benefits to the Directors and To ensure the comparability of this figure, and to minimise distortions, the all-employee remuneration figure is on the basis of full-time senior management.
Loss of office payments or payments to past Directors audited information Relative importance of spend on pay No loss of office payments or payments to past Directors were made in the year under review.
The chart below shows how staff remuneration costs compared to profit before tax and distributions made to shareholders in 2014 and 2013.
Directors shareholdings audited information Relative importance of employee pay US$m The Group CEO is required to retain a shareholding equal to five times his base salary, i. e. 180,463 shares.
For the purposes of determining whether the requirements have been met, share price is measured at the end of each financial year.
Shares are -17% 19% 58% valued for these purposes at the year-end price of 5.76 US$8.95 per share at 31 December 2014 translated at the closing exchange rate of the 370 British Pound to the Russian Rouble as at 31 December 2014.
307 282 Shares that count towards shareholding requirements include unfettered shares.
The table below sets out the number of shares held, or potentially held, by Directors.
179 149 125 Shares held Options held Shareholding Subject to Current requirement Owned performance Vested but Exercised shareholding Guideline Director % of salary outright conditions unexercised in year % salary met Total employee Return to Underlying profit pay shareholders before tax Vitaly Nesis 500% 3,100,000 8,589% Yes Leonard Homeniuk 64,000 NA 2013 2014 Bobby Godsell 2,000 NA Note: Underlying profit before tax excludes after-tax amounts of impairment charges reversals Marina Grnberg 11,000 NA and foreign exchange loss.
Performance graph and table Implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year The graph below illustrates the Companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment companies, In 2015 the Committee intends to implement the executive and non-executive Director remuneration policies as follows: of which the Company is a constituent, from the date of the Companys admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange in October 2011.
To provide context to the Companys performance in its specific sector of operation, we also provide an illustration of the Companys TSR relative to Base salary the constituents of the FTSE Gold Miners Index.
The policy for determining 2015 base salaries will remain unchanged.
Base salary for the Group CEO for 2014 and 2015 is set out below: 1 1 2015 salary 2014 salary % change Total shareholder return % Roubles Roubles 18,174,000 15,600,000 16.5% 180 Group CEO US$263,662 US$428,546 -38% 160 1 140 Base salary for 2015 is translated at the closing exchange rate of Rouble to US Dollar stated by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation as at 1 February 2015.
Base salary for 2014 is translated at the average exchange rate of Rouble to US Dollar stated by the Central Bank of Russian Federation during 2014.
120 100 The Remuneration Committee decided to increase the base salary of the Group CEO in 2014 in Rouble terms for the first time since 2011, having 80 taken into account inflation in the Russian Federation, as well as significant devaluation of the Russian Rouble against the US Dollar during the 60 period.
In January 2015, the Board approved the Remuneration Committees recommendation that a salary increase of 16.5% be paid to all Group employees, whose salaries are denominated in Roubles, including the Group CEO Vitaly Nesis.
The US Dollar equivalent of his base salary has 40 decreased by 38% compared to 2014 as a result of the significant Russian Rouble devaluation.
20 0 Pension and benefits Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec No pension or benefits plans are in place for 2015, except for the defined pension contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the 2011 2011 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 Russian Federation.
Polymetal FTSE 250 FTSE Gold Mines 88 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 89 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Remuneration report continued Annual bonus The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance section on the Companys website: The targets for annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive, particularly in the gold mining industry, because of the sensitivity www.
of information that their disclosure may provide to the Companys competitors, given that these are largely based outside the UK and hence are not subject to the same reporting requirements as the Company.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration In 2014 the Remuneration Committee met three times.
Further business conducted by the Committee was approved by written resolutions on one Long-Term Incentive Plan Deferred Share Awards Plan and Performance Share Plan further occasion.
Deferred Share Awards Plan The Committee intends to defer annual bonus awards earned for the 2015 performance period in line with policy.
In 2014 the meetings of the Committee covered the following key areas: reviewed KPIs for 2014: Performance Share Plan The Committee intends to make an award under the PSP to the Group CEO in 2015, in line with the policy disclosed on pages 80-81. approved the list of participants in the Performance Share Plan: reviewed an update on regulatory changes to the Directors Remuneration report: Vesting is based on relative TSR measured against the constituents of the FTSE Gold Mines Index and on the Companys absolute TSR.
Peers are ranked and the Companys position determines vesting: reviewed the Remuneration policy and annual Remuneration report: approved annual bonuses: TSR vs. FTSE Gold Mines Payout reviewed the Board expenses and reimbursement policy: Below threshold Below median performance 0% Threshold Median performance 20% reviewed the performance of the Remuneration Committee: Maximum Upper decile performance 100% evaluated the first year following changes to remuneration reporting: and reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
Straight-line vesting will occur between the points set out above.
No award will vest for performance below median, or if the Companys absolute TSR performance is negative, regardless of relative performance.
The Board considers that the composition and work of the Remuneration Committee complies with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Following external Board evaluation, the Committee reviewed its performance and noted feedback provided with the assistance Non-executive Directors of external consultants.
The policy for determining non-executive Directors fees will be unchanged from 2014.
Fee rates for 2014 and 2015 are set out below: Statement of voting at AGM 2015 fees 2014 fees At the 2014 AGM, held on 21 May, votes for the Remuneration report and Remuneration policy were as follows: Role US$ US$ Non-executive Chairman 412,150 412,150 Votes for Votes against Withheld Senior Independent Director No additional fee No additional fee Remuneration report 238,310,278 99.79% 494,526 0.21% 0 Independent non-executive Director basic fee 164,860 164,860 Remuneration policy 238,263,983 99.77% 540,821 0.23% 0 Additional fees Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 49,458 49,458 At this meeting, minor amendments to the Companys long-term incentive plan were put to a vote, with 99.78% of shareholders in favour.
Chairman of other Committees 24,729 24,729 Advisors Committee membership fee not payable to the Committee Chair 16,486 16,486 The Committee continued to use  LLP PwC as independent external remuneration consultants to provide support Board and Committee meeting attendance fee 4,946 per meeting 4,946 per meeting in relation to the design and operation of the new LTIP and on the changes associated with the new remuneration report regulations.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group RCG and a signatory of the RCG Voluntary Code of Practice, and incorporates the principles Note: Non-executive Director fees are denominated in British pounds sterling and for presentation purposes the figures are translated to US$ at cross-rates of the British Pound and the of the Voluntary Code of Practice into its engagement.
No other services were provided by PwC during 2014.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to US Dollar to the Rouble stated by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation as at 31 December 2014. remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2014 totalled US$48,000 2013: US$54,400, with fees quoted in advance and based on the level of complexity of the work undertaken.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from Remuneration Committee PwC at a private meeting held on an annual basis.
The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive Directors who have no personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided.
As a result of Mr Balfours decision not to offer himself for re-election as a Director, a replacement During its work in 2014, the Committee was also aided by the Group CEO, and senior finance and human resources executives of the Company.
member of the Remuneration Committee was appointed following the AGM.
From October 2014 Mr Homeniuk no longer holds equity and since December 2014 is no longer Executive Chairman and CEO at Polygon Gold Inc. Polygon, in which Polymetal holds a 42.6% equity ownership PwCs appointment was made by way of a competitive tender, the results of which were presented to the Remuneration Committee for approval.
and one of the three board seats.
Approval The membership of the Remuneration Committee is shown in the table below.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 30 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by Name Role Leonard Homeniuk Chairman Jonathan Best Member Leonard Homeniuk Christine Coignard Member Chairman, Remuneration Committee The principal functions of the Remuneration Committee under its terms of reference are: to make recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on the remuneration of executive management: to determine, within agreed terms of reference, the remuneration of the Chairman and specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Director, the Company Secretary and the members of senior management, including pension rights and any compensation payments: to formulate suitable performance criteria for the performance-based pay of executive management: to review and oversee all aspects of any executive share scheme operated by or to be established by the Company: and to oversee and advise the Board on any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or the Group.
90 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 91
