Corporate Responsibility Andrew Memmott, Supply Chain Director Completed and commissioned our new A. G. BARR has long had a manufacturing and warehousing facility in strong sense of environmental Milton Keynes, which is already showing responsibility, with our earliest environmental and performance benefits: demonstration of this commitment Continued to support consumers on perhaps being the introduction matters of transparency and public our iconic returnable glass health, specifically fulfilling our Responsibility Deal pledge to reduce the bottles in 1875. sugar content of our drinks portfolio: and Signed our third Education Partnership Times have changed and now corporate Agreement, supporting students in their responsibility CR is about more than studies as well as learning new skills environmental measures.
As a company we Low sugar drinks ourselves.
have a duty to be a sustainable, responsible Low sugar drinks are an important business that listens to its consumers, takes focus for the business.
Our people care of its employees, gives back to its The safety of our customers, staff and communities and works to minimise its stakeholders is vital to us as a business and environmental impact.
consequently its an area of the business where we dedicate much of our time and With our success and growth as a business attention.
This year has been about comes an obligation to take our social and reinforcing good practice as well as raising environmental commitments seriously and awareness of improved ways of thinking embed them across all areas of the and working.
Safety is led from the top by the Safety We believe that our straightforward, Executive team, which comprises the responsible and open approach to business Executive Directors with support from the builds trust with our consumers, attracts the right people to work for us, minimises Health and Safety Manager.
This team our footprint on the environment and allows agrees safety policy and ensures all safety Magna Park us to maintain excellent relationships teams implement best safety practice at all Our state-of-the-art Milton Keynes facility.
The Safety Executive team identified three key initiatives which are Safety Performance Our corporate responsibility programme monitored on a quarterly basis.
These are: Our safety performance continues to has four key areas: Near miss reporting initiative improve with RIDDOR reportable incidents Our people Safety training down by more than half, from 10 in 2012 to 4 Environment Audit standards in 2013, as we further embed our systems Consumers around the reporting and management of Communities workplace safety.
Highlights We have: 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Improved Health and Safety performance RIDDOR reportable accidents 17 13 9 10 4 for the fifth consecutive year: RIDDOR severity Index 23 19 17 16 10 Invested in the We Are Barr campaign of Barr behaviours for staff which are the Number of days lost 396 377 288 276 256 values we aim to demonstrate as a business around being brilliant, always Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
learning, being results driven and encouraging relationships that deliver: A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23
