Corporate Responsibility Andrew Memmott, Supply Chain Director Completed and commissioned our new A. G. BARR has long had a manufacturing and warehousing facility in strong sense of environmental Milton Keynes, which is already showing responsibility, with our earliest environmental and performance benefits: demonstration of this commitment Continued to support consumers on perhaps being the introduction matters of transparency and public our iconic returnable glass health, specifically fulfilling our Responsibility Deal pledge to reduce the bottles in 1875. sugar content of our drinks portfolio: and Signed our third Education Partnership Times have changed and now corporate Agreement, supporting students in their responsibility CR is about more than studies as well as learning new skills environmental measures.
As a company we Low sugar drinks ourselves.
have a duty to be a sustainable, responsible Low sugar drinks are an important business that listens to its consumers, takes focus for the business.
Our people care of its employees, gives back to its The safety of our customers, staff and communities and works to minimise its stakeholders is vital to us as a business and environmental impact.
consequently its an area of the business where we dedicate much of our time and With our success and growth as a business attention.
This year has been about comes an obligation to take our social and reinforcing good practice as well as raising environmental commitments seriously and awareness of improved ways of thinking embed them across all areas of the and working.
Safety is led from the top by the Safety We believe that our straightforward, Executive team, which comprises the responsible and open approach to business Executive Directors with support from the builds trust with our consumers, attracts the right people to work for us, minimises Health and Safety Manager.
This team our footprint on the environment and allows agrees safety policy and ensures all safety Magna Park us to maintain excellent relationships teams implement best safety practice at all Our state-of-the-art Milton Keynes facility.
The Safety Executive team identified three key initiatives which are Safety Performance Our corporate responsibility programme monitored on a quarterly basis.
These are: Our safety performance continues to has four key areas: Near miss reporting initiative improve with RIDDOR reportable incidents Our people Safety training down by more than half, from 10 in 2012 to 4 Environment Audit standards in 2013, as we further embed our systems Consumers around the reporting and management of Communities workplace safety.
Highlights We have: 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Improved Health and Safety performance RIDDOR reportable accidents 17 13 9 10 4 for the fifth consecutive year: RIDDOR severity Index 23 19 17 16 10 Invested in the We Are Barr campaign of Barr behaviours for staff which are the Number of days lost 396 377 288 276 256 values we aim to demonstrate as a business around being brilliant, always Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
learning, being results driven and encouraging relationships that deliver: A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Corporate Responsibility Continued The Near Miss Reporting Initiative NMR LGV drivers were trained, bringing the total Launched last year, NMR aims to encourage drivers trained to 219 company car drivers our people to spot potential incidents and and 168 LGV drivers.
Each driver was issued put plans in place to prevent them with a personal action plan to improve happening.
This year it continues to inform their driving standards which was our workplace behaviours and determines reviewed with their manager.
where to focus our attention in our safety training programmes.
NMR was up on 2012 Audit Standards from 2,858 reports to 3,469 in 2013 thanks Cross site audits provided an opportunity to the success of our awareness raising for our NEBOSH-certified managers to campaign.
Our employees recognise the consolidate their learning by auditing an value of reporting potential incidents and unfamiliar site.
30 audits were conducted, we will continue to use them to improve with the aim of improving understanding of We are continuing to invest workplace health and safety.
and response to safety behaviours, unsafe in Learning and Development acts and unsafe conditions.
Each of the Our telesales team are put through their Training Safety managers received refresher training and training paces.
Supporting NMR, during 2013 we instigated worked with the audited site to close off the a programme of site safety days and cross actions raised.
The exercise was a great site safety audits, the main objectives of success, identifying 150 safety actions, which are to continue to keep safety top all of which were actioned to remove or of our agenda as well as ensuring all of mitigate the risks to our people.
our people are engaged and involved in our safety programmes and initiatives.
Learning and Development Our goal is to make A. G. BARR a great Safety days were one of the main events place to work, both now and in the future.
in the year that helped achieve these key We recognise that our people are critical objectives.
Lasting between 4 and 6 hours, to the future success of the company these safety days were facilitated by our and we continually invest in our people Safety Team across our manufacturing, to increase their capability to successfully warehousing and distribution operations deliver our business objectives.
and were attended by over 600 staff in total.
Improvement continues in These sessions were highly interactive to We believe in creating the right environment health and safety performance get the safety message across, left all with for our people to develop successful careers Sharing the safety message is critical, a clear understanding of hazard spotting at A. G. BARR: with a number of site safety days carried and more significantly it ensured everyone Every employee has their own agreed throughout the business.
understood what they can do to keep Personal Learning and Development the risk reduction plan active.
Plan to help them deliver their personal, team and business goals.
Vehicle safety training continues to be a In 2013, 583 internal and external courses key part of our Health and Safety agenda.
were delivered covering over 5,400 hours In 2013 all 150 of our HGV drivers attended of learning.
year 4 of their Driver Certificate of Professional Competence training, focusing on company procedures and digital tachograph rules.
In addition the three year phased driver risk reduction programme, delivered by AA Drivetech, was completed.
This year 105 company car drivers and 13 A. G. BARR p. l. c. 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Barr Behaviours Our Barr Behaviours visually demonstrate how we work together Being brilliant Always learning Results driven Relationships that deliver Case Study: Barr Behaviours For example, on 23 July 2013, our We have developed Barr Behaviours as a champions coordinated the participation of Leadership potential simple framework that describes how we around 300 of our people 30% of the development should work together in order to get things workforce in the 20 minutes 14 seconds done in our growing business.
They were walk to mark one year until the start of the In 2013, we introduced an Aspiring developed by listening to our people and 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games.
Manager programme which is recognised represent the best of us.
and accredited by the Institute of As major sponsors of the Games we Leadership & Management.
The The delivery of Barr Behaviours as a are working wherever possible with programme is aimed at employees who development programme is progressing the organisers to share health and have shown an interest in moving into well, with a range of activities in place to get activity messages.
Delegates attend a series people talking about these behaviours and of workshops and are required to complete their experience of working at A. G. BARR.
Investors in People Silver Accreditation written assignments to achieve the Feedback is fundamental to our Always In 2010, A. G. BARR achieved the prestigious qualification.
The programme explores Learning behaviour and, as a key part of Investors in People IIP bronze the basic principles of management and the programme, we are rolling out the use accreditation.
This independent standard provides the delegates with an insight of 360 feedback which encourages our is one of the key ways that we measure into research and best practice which people to get feedback from their team, employee engagement and it highlights helps them take the step from team colleagues and peers.
where we perform well, as well as member to team leader.
In 2013 our Intranet, iLearn and Performance Mark Magunnigal Cumbernauld Review administration have been updated to Across 2012 and 2013 all of our sites Manufacturing commented, I recently include our Barr Behaviours.
2014 will be a have now been re-assessed against the IIP completed the Aspiring Manager year of further embedding these behaviours standard and all have achieved Silver Status, programme.
It really made me step into our Recruitment, Induction and demonstrating the excellent progress we outside my comfort zone!
Others have Performance Management processes.
have made with the development plans that called the programme inspiring, informative were set for each site across the Plan, Do, and challenging, and Id agree.
Although Healthy Staff Review IIP framework.
it was a challenge when I did it, I am We have signed up to the Public Health now able to apply what I have learned Responsibility Deal led by the Department to help my colleagues in my new role of Health which asks companies and as Relief Team Leader.
organisations to look at practical steps we can take to improve the health of our employees.
This ties in well with the social elements of our CR objectives and we now have specific employee volunteers at each site, such as our Physical Activity Champions PACs, who support the health agenda.
They coordinate local activities and act as the point of contact for group-wide activities.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25
