Corporate Responsibility Continued Gender Diversity: Total Employees Case Study: Gender Diversity Gender Diversity We recognise the benefits of diversity in Directors Our new manufacturing our business, including the significant value 262 Gender Diversity: Directors and logistics centre it adds to the quality of discussion and decision making.
The charts opposite show in Milton Keynes the gender split at different levels within the 1 organisation, as at 26 January 2014.
Our new 265,000 sq ft manufacturing and logistics facility in Milton Keynes was Human Rights completed and commissioned in 2013.
We respect all human rights and are This has a canning line which has more 740 committed to conducting business in an than doubled our production capacity honest and ethical manner.
We seek to in 330ml and 500ml cans.
8 have a positive impact on employees, Female customers, consumers and the wider The building reflects the importance Male communities on which we impact through Female Gender Diversity: Total Employees we place on addressing our impacts in our policies and procedures, including those Male all areas of our business.
The design relating to employment, health and safety, of the building is to Building Research the environment, anti-corruption, data Gender Diversity Establishment Environmental Assessment protection and whistleblowing.
We seek Senior Managers Methodology BREEAM excellent to engage with suppliers who adopt an 262 Gender Diversity: Senior Managers standard.
This has involved us designing ethical approach to human rights, working the building to minimise carbon emissions, conditions and the environment in line particularly through reducing energy with our own values.
Our direct suppliers 13 use, energy wastage and water use, are required to adhere to our ethical and maximising water re-use and the trading policy.
use of low impact materials.
The Group monitors the effectiveness 740 In our choice of location we can now of all of its policies and has not been manufacture brands such as Rubicon and made aware of any incident where the Rockstar much closer to their geographically 62 Groups activities have resulted in an strongest sales areas, so minimising Female abuse of human rights.
transport miles for the finished product.
Male Female Gender Diversity: Total Employees The site is also within easy reach of three Male Environment can production facilities and two sugar During 2013 we have found refining sites.
This means that we are opportunities in our existing operations Gender Diversity reducing the transport miles for our raw to drive improvements to make A. G. BARR Total Employees materials as well as for our finished an increasingly efficient business with a 262 Gender Diversity: Total Employees products.
This has been the sixth time Ive Our new facility at Milton Keynes inevitably commissioned a production line, but the had an impact on our overall performance 262 first time on a new site.
Its been exciting as it went through commissioning and building a completely new team as started up operations.
Our utilisation for a line in its site we obviously had an impact on the 740 commissioning phase has been ahead environment.
However we expect our of plan, and were improving quickly.
normalised impacts, which are the impacts Tim Stacey, Factory Manager.
740 for each can or bottle of drink we produce, Female to reduce as it progresses towards an Male Female efficient operating capacity.
Male A. G. BARR p. l. c. 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
