Chief Executives Operational Review Continued The seamless transfer of our distribution People, Sustainability and Responsibility Safety performance in the period made centre from Lutterworth to Milton Keynes Across the business everyone has further significant progress as all of our was completed in the period and with responded positively to both change and teams continue the journey to transform the site now fully operational, it has the challenges throughout the last 12 months.
safety behaviours across each site.
We have potential to add significantly more The flexibility, adaptability and resilience of built on our previously described near-miss capacity to the Group.
the whole team is a huge credit to them and reporting and corrective action plans which, the delivery of our financial plan, during an together with increased safety audit activity, As a direct consequence, we have also extended period of corporate uncertainty, have delivered a real reduction in lost time substantially reduced our finished goods speaks volumes for our people.
accidents and continue to help keep safety inventories as our new operating platform at the top of our agenda across the begins to deliver the planned benefits.
We We have learned a great deal about business.
are currently planning our Phase II activities ourselves as a business over the last 12 at Milton Keynes and are conducting a full months and we have channelled much The weight of regulatory activity, media review of our current and future operational of this insight and energy into a change interest and political comment on the soft requirements and options, mapped out programme which we launched across the drinks sector has never been greater.
A. G. against our forward views of consumer second half of 2013.
Our Fit for the Future BARR continues to take a very positive and trends, to ensure we make the very most of programme is designed to support our proactive role in driving our responsibility the potential of this world class operating internal change agenda across a broad actions to ensure we support consumers site.
We anticipate reaching concrete range of development and change projects.
We have successfully conclusions of this review during the All of these projects are designed to ensure met our annual objectives related to our course of 2014. we can successfully and sustainably commitments under the Government accelerate the growth of our business.
sponsored Responsibility Deal to reduce A special thank you should go to all of our Our change programme will cover all key the average calorie content of our drinks colleagues at Milton Keynes, both in the aspects of our business going forward: portfolio by 5% by 2016.
In addition, project team and the local team, for their systems and processes: people and we will be adopting the non mandatory, hard work and dedication in delivering this performance: and assets and brands.
traffic light, front-of-pack labelling system complex and significant project.
The adoption of enhanced project and during the course of 2014, ensuring that programme management tools and we give consumers maximum visibility Across all of our operating sites we have processes will allow us to accelerate and of the nutritional content of our drinks, continued to make great progress in 2013 14 fide-risk our major project activity, as well further emphasising our commitment driving improved efficiency and delivering as improve overall resource planning and to supporting consumers right to clear excellent customer service.
execution as we enter a new and exciting and well informed choice.
growth phase of the business.
It should be Our capital expenditure in the financial year highlighted that the Milton Keynes project 2013 14 was slightly less than previous was delivered successfully using our guidance at 13.4m, primarily due to the new programme project management re-phasing of a number of capital projects methodologies.
Overall, we have a well invested and scalable operating platform from which to grow our business.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
