Directors Remuneration Report Continued Chairman and non-executive directors The table below sets out an overview of the remuneration of non-executive directors: Purpose and link to strategy Approach of the Company Sole element of non-executive Fees are normally reviewed annually.
director remuneration, set at a level that reflects market conditions and is The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Fees are set at a level which reflects the skill, knowledge and sufficient to attract individuals with experience of the individual, whilst taking into account appropriate market data.
The Board is responsible for setting the fees of the other non-executive directors.
Fees may include a basic fee and additional fees for further responsibilities for example, chairmanship of board committees.
Fees are set taking into account several factors, including the size and complexity of the business, appropriate market data and the expected time commitment and contribution for the role.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys share schemes or bonus schemes nor do they receive any pension contributions.
Non-executive directors may be eligible to receive benefits such as the use of secretarial support, travel costs or other benefits that may be appropriate.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Directors annual remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
Explanation of performance metrics chosen and the target setting process Performance measures are selected that are aligned to the Companys strategy.
Stretching performance targets are set each year for the annual bonus and long term incentive awards.
When setting these performance targets, the Remuneration Committee will take into account a number of different reference points, which may include the Companys business plans and strategy and the market environment.
Full vesting will only occur for what the Remuneration Committee considers to be stretching performance.
The annual bonus performance targets have been selected to provide an appropriate balance between incentivising directors to meet financial targets for the year and achieving strategic and or personal objectives.
The LTIP performance targets reflect the Companys strategic objectives and therefore the financial and strategic decisions which ultimately determine the success of the Company.
The LTIP performance measures will be based on financial measures, including but not exclusively Earnings Per Share growth, which is a key measure of the Companys profitability, and or comparative total shareholder return related measures.
The Remuneration Committee retains the ability to adjust or set different performance measures if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or a divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions which cause the Remuneration Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose.
Awards and options may be adjusted in the event of a variation of share capital in accordance with the scheme rules.
Policy for the remuneration of employees generally Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on the same principle that reward should be achieved for delivery of the business strategy and should be sufficient to attract and retain high calibre talent.
Under the rules of the ESOS and the 2014 LTIP, certain managers are eligible to participate in the ESOS and the 2014 LTIP: however there has been no such participation to date and there is no current intention to invite managers to do so.
Senior managers were not eligible to participate in the 2003 LTIP.
The annual bonus arrangements for the senior management team are similar to those for the executive directors in that targets are set annually dependent on financial and or non-financial performance metrics.
The key principles of the remuneration philosophy are applied consistently across the Group below this level, taking account of the seniority of employees.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
