Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 39 Sustainability report Following the positive reception to our concise sustainability reporting in 2013, we have again decided to focus on the key elements of strategic sustainability across the business in this report.
As in 2013, relevant sustainability information isincluded throughout the wider report.
Principles Greenhouse gas GHG statement for the Group The Principles element of our sustainability strategy centres on those Summary of GHG emissions for the year ended 31 December 2013: activities which we believe will deliver competitive advantage or financial Tonnes Carbon Dioxide equivalent CO2e benefit to the company.
We dont report on compliance activities, which Scope 1 4,351 weare required to full and that would not set us apart from other Scope 2 16,278 corporate good citizens in favour of initiatives that we believe drive internal or external business value.
Total 20,629 Intensity Metric: Code of Conduct 2 Tonnes Carbon Dioxide equivalent per thousand square metres CO2e 000m All employees are required to re-read and commit to the Premier Farnell Scope 1 23 Code of Conduct during their annual Mid Year Review.
This gives them Scope 2 87 the opportunity to ask questions and raise concerns with their line Total 110 manager.
In FY14, 99.87% of employees confirmed that they had read and understood the Code of Conduct.
The remaining 0.13% consists The reporting of Scope 1 and 2 emissions is in accordance with the ofemployees on long term absence and those who have less than three new requirements of the Companies Act this year.
Comparatives will be months service with the Company.
These newer employees complete presented from 2014 15 onwards.
aneducation module on the Code of Conduct as part of their induction.
Each region has developed plans to reduce absolute energy use and associated GHG emissions against the 2013 baseline.
The Trust Line efficiency investments will primarily target owned facility upgrades to Premier Farnell provides an anonymous telephone hotline for employees reduce the consumption of electricity and natural gas and the resultant to report concerns about corporate ethics in their workplace.
In FY14, six Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
issues were reported and investigated by the hotline.
All issues raised were resolved within the year and none remain outstanding.
We have appointed  LLP to provide independent assurance on selected information in the GHG statement.
Their assurance is performed in accordance with the internationally Planet recognised Standards on Assurance Engagements ISAE3410 and 3000, As a distributor with no owned logistics or freight, we have focused our against a clear and public set of criteria which can be found online at environmental reporting on the direct impacts of our operations at our http: www.
Their assurance report can own facilities.
The environmental impacts of the transport of products are befound on page 41 of this report.
managed by third-party carriers through their own procedures.
Resource use 2013 2012 2011 Waste generated tonnes 4,488 4,409 4,943 Waste sent to landll tonnes 903 922 1,305 Waste Recycled tonnes 3,585 3,488 3,638 Waste Recycled % 80% 79% 74% Our overall performance on waste recycling has increased by 1% since 2012.
In addition to segregating and recycling our own waste on site, our Distribution Centres offer a returns service for production reels and wafe trays.
This scheme allows customers to return unwanted production packaging free-of-charge to be cleaned, sorted and re-used.
indd 39 24 04 2014 16:01 40 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Sustainability report People Absenteeism The success of our business is dependent on the skills and commitment We measure the sickness and injury-related absence rates of employees at ofour people.
It is vital to our sustainability strategy that we attract, develop our contact centres and distribution centres worldwide.
As a high service and retain the right people to ensure our profitability continues in the business, the engagement and commitment of our staff is paramount to long term.
1 Location Business type Absence rate Human rights Leeds, UK Distribution Centre 4.2% Business Contact Centre 5.0% Premier Farnell supports the fundamental human rights of all of its employees and stakeholders.
Our policies and procedures are aligned with Preston, UK Distribution Centre 3.9% the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and we implement Business Contact Centre 4.3% a Code of Conduct in our internal and external dealings to protect the Gaffney, US Distribution Centre 1.4% integrity of the people with whom we interact.
Richeld, US Business Contact Centre 2.0% Our Private Label suppliers are subject to our Workplace Standards policy, Dayton, OH Distribution Centre 2.0% setting out the expectation that human rights will be upheld by those Singapore Distribution Centre 2.0% companies with which we contract, including the elimination of forced and Business Contact Centre 1.8% child labour, and we assess those suppliers performance to ensure that their commitment is being kept.
Absence rates are calculated by the number of working days not attended by employees as a percentage of planned and agreed working days for the year.
Health and safety Supplier workplace standards We monitor the injury rates at all facilities and our global performance is reported below.
We target injury rates that are not higher than 50% of We have continued our audit programme for Private Label Suppliers that the average injury rate for our industry, based on the OSHA performance are based in Asia.
We have concluded that these are our highest-risk gures for industries in the US.
suppliers in terms of potential human rights violations.
To date, 90.14% Recordable DAW ofPrivate Label suppliers by spend have been audited by a member of 1 2 injuries injuries our Strategic Sourcing Team and 95.85% have completed surveys on FY14 Target 50% computed OSHA average 0.45 0.11 worker rights and workplace standards.
No audits have identied any concerns for the welfare of suppliers employees.
FY14 Performance 0.31 0.21 FY13 Performance 0.36 0.24 This accounts for all significant Private Label suppliers.
Approximately 10%of suppliers are inactive, being used signicantly less regularly Notes: to purchase products.
We have taken the decision to focus the audit 1.
Recordable injuries are those which require medical treatment beyond the application of on-site first aid.
This ensures that the significant 2.
Days Away from Work injuries are those which result in an employee taking medical leave from majority of work for which we are responsible in the Asia Pacic region work, or being assigned to restricted duties outside of their normal contract.
withsubcontractors is conducted in high-standard environments.
In Europe, we have improved the quality and consistency of our safety management reporting, in order to better capture near-miss accidents and Community investment minor injuries.
This provides us with greater visibility of the risks and issues We have taken the decision to focus our investment activities on two in our facilities, but has increased the number of injuries reported in Europe.
key areas: STEM education and Assistive Technologies: as this directly Overall performance at our US businesses has improved during the supports our business in the longer term, developing a pool of both financial year with a significant decrease in the number of injuries during potential employees and potential customers.
We continue to support the Make the Grade programme in the UK, which provides business support to local schools.
Our support is focused on Swallow Hill Community College in Leeds, providing science and engineering support to technology departments, as well as broader mentoring and workplace skills sessions for students.
Our online community, element14, is host to Project Nocturne an international collaborative design project in partnership with DesignAbility.
The project brings together electronic design engineers from across the globe to provide pro-bono development of a product to support sufferers of dementia and their carers.
The Project Nocturne group on the element14 community website has attracted 10,800 page views during 2013 14 as it brings key stakeholders together across geographical boundaries to nd an innovative solution to an important problem.
indd 40 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 41 Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Premier Farnell plc The Directors of Premier Farnell plc engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below and set out in Premier Farnell plcs Greenhouse gas GHG statement for the Group within the Sustainability report and the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2 February 2014.
Our conclusion Our independence and quality control Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we We have complied with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to and Wales ICAEW Code of Ethics, which includes independence believe the Selected Information for the year ended 31 December and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, 2013 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance objectivity, professional competence and due care, condentiality and with the Reporting Criteria.
This conclusion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder We apply International Standard on Quality Control UK&I and accordingly of this report.
maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Selected information Our work was carried out by a team of sustainability and assurance We assured the information for the year ended 31 December 2013 specialists, independent of management.
presented in the Greenhouse gas statement for the Group the Selected Information.
Understanding reporting and measurement methodologies The Selected Information and the Reporting Criteria are summarised in the table below.
Our assurance does not extend to information in respect of Non-financial information needs to be read and understood in conjunction earlier periods or to any other information included in the Annual Report with the Reporting Criteria, given the characteristics of the subject matter and Accounts for the year ended 2 February 2014. and the methods used in determining such information.
The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw allows 1 Selected Information Reporting Criteria for selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques which can result in materially different measurements and can affect Scope 1 emissions comparability.
The precision of different measurement techniques may Scope 2 emissions See http: www.
Furthermore, the nature and methods used to determine such Carbon intensity information, as well as measurement criteria and precision thereof, may change over time.
The Reporting Criteria used as the basis of Premier Farnell plcs reporting are as at 17 April 2014 and should therefore be read Professional standards applied and level of assurance inconjunction with the Selected Information and associated statements We have performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with asat17 April 2014 reported on Premier Farnell plcs website.
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas statements ISAE 3410 and, in respect of intensity measures information, in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks.
The maintenance and integrity of Premier Farnell plcs website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Reporting Criteria when presented on Premier Farnell plcs website.
indd 41 24 04 2014 16:01 42 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Premier Farnell plc Work done Our responsibilities Considering the risk of material misstatement of the Selected We are responsible for: Information, we: t planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited assurance t made enquiries of relevant management: about whether the Selected Information is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: t interviewed personnel: t forming an independent conclusion, based on the procedures t performed analytical procedures: wehaveperformed and the evidence we have obtained: and t considered the structure and basis of data management system t reporting our conclusion to the Directors of Premier Farnell plc.
andcontrols: and This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for t performed limited testing, on a selective basis, of supporting the Directors of Premier Farnell plc as a body in accordance with the documentation to the Selected Information disclosed in the GHG agreement between us, to assist the Directors in reporting Premier Farnell statement for the Group.
We permit this report to be disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2 February 2014, Premier Farnell plcs responsibilities to enable the Directors to show they have addressed their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection The Directors of Premier Farnell plc are responsible for: with the Selected Information.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we t designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls over do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directors information relevant to the preparation of the Selected Information as a body and Premier Farnell plc for our work or this report except where thatisfree from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: terms are expressly agreed between us in writing.
t establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing the Selected Information:  LLP t measuring and reporting the Selected Information based Chartered Accountants, Leeds ontheReporting Criteria: and 17 April 2014 t the content of the Greenhouse Gas Statement for the Group and the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2 February 2014.
