Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 43 Employees Sustainable, profitable growth in line with our strategic objectives can only be achieved by a high performing, engaged workforce with the right knowledge and skills.
As we have evolved from catalogue distributor to a global, multichannel options and avenues, depending on needs, both individual and business focused on supporting customers requirements, we have organisational, identied during our performance review process.
acquired and developed critical new skills within our employee base Local, functional and global learning programmes are available for all levels including eCommerce expertise and technical capability.
Today, the of employees and are available through a blend of classroom training, Group has over 4,500 employees based in 37 countries around the globe e-learning, coaching, mentoring and direct on-the-job learning.
We review with more than 90 eCommerce specialists and 250 technical engineers needs at all levels on a regular basis and proactively look for solutions to amongst its ranks.
ensure that optimal learning is achieved in every region of the world.
Through its range of employee initiatives, described below, the Group Our current learning and development initiatives include leadership seeks to attract and develop its people around the globe.
development, such as the coaching programme undertaken by all our leaders this year, and various relevant training programmes with our online Performance management learning centre which provides all employees with a variety ofmaterial and resources to aid professional andpersonal development.
Effective performance management plays an important role in enabling our employees to contribute to the success of the organisation.
Our GroupThis includes customised learning programmes delivered in partnership wide performance review process has been instrumental in shaping our with a leading business school.
We also provide a comprehensive journey towards a high performance culture.
induction module available online so that every new employee in the world has equal opportunity to learn and grow.
All employees participate in our annual performance review process which links each individual employees work with the Companys strategic and operational objectives.
The performance review process also incorporates Diversity and inclusion our key development planning processes so that we continually address With thousands of customers around the world, Premier Farnell is an performance and ongoing professional and personal development.
organisation which values both diversity and inclusion.
The Group is committed to employment policies which follow best practice Today the Group has over 4,500 and provide equal opportunities for all employees.
employees based in 37 countries with Our strong commitment to diversity was recently recognised at the prestigious UK National Diversity Awards where our European business, more than 90 eCommerce specialists Farnell element14, won the Company of the Year award.
and 250 technical engineers amongst We are fully supportive of the benets of a diverse workforce and our itsranks.
employee base proudly reects the diversity of the various countries in which we operate.
We believe that this ensures richness in both business and culture and an organisation that truly reects our global Performance management continues throughout the year and we business presence.
also consider the performance review process to be an ideal platform for engaging and motivating employees.
As part of our continuous We continually seek to recruit, develop and employ throughout the improvement philosophy, we also ensure that we equip our people organisation suitably qualied, capable and experienced people irrespective managers with the necessary skills, such as coaching, to bring out of age, race, ethnicity, gender, religion or sexual orientation.
By ensuring thebestin their teams.
diversity within our talent and leadership pool, we are also ensuring we build a future team that best reects our client, investor and global We reward and recognise employees based on their performance and employee base.
contribution to the success of the business and provide both competitive and fair remuneration in every country and region in which we operate.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment for disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued employment and Learning and development training, career development and promotion of disabled persons employed We are continually building on our commitment to enable our people by the Group.
If members of staff become disabled, the Group continues to reach their full potential through learning, training and development.
employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate We invest in the development of our employees even throughout tough retraining being given if necessary.
economic cycles, providing a suite of various training and development 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
indd 43 24 04 2014 16:01 44 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Employees Gender diversity Your voice all employee engagement survey Senior We rmly believe in the importance of listening to our people.
In 2013 14, Board GET Management 82% of our employees took part in our seventh all-employee engagement 12 12 188 survey, providing vital feedback onwhat it is like to work for the Company.
% employees employees employees employees Engagement rose slightly on last year to 71%, areading in this key metric Male 87.5% 83% 76% which is comparable with the high performance company benchmark.
Female 12.5% 17% 24% Specic and concrete action plans are derived, built and implemented to Entire organisation 4,537 employees continually improve the organisation, leveraging on the key engagement drivers uncovered as a result of the survey.
The key engagement drivers highlighted in last years survey remain consistent with Training 55% & Development: Leadership: Strategy & Direction: and Organisational Change, key areas of focus for our people strategy.
45% Senior leadership forums As with previous years, we are continuing the Groups commitment to Mentoring include representation and participation from a cross section of employees Our internal Mentoring Programme is now in its seventh year.
These forums consist of bi-annual meetings The programme pairs high-potential employees with mentors across at which the strategy and key issues related to its implementation are every function and geography, ensuring the nurturing of a global culture.
discussed, and participants have the opportunity to learn about and Mentoring continues to be a powerful tool for the development of our key provide inputs to our business progress.
Our forums provide an arena for and emerging talent pool with the senior team including internal, external the exchange of relevant and appropriate information and constructive and Board mentors.
dialogue between executive management and leadership regarding where the business is, andwhere it intends to go.
Employee communications and involvement Great place to work The Group provides employees with relevant information, consulting them or their representatives regularly, so that their views can be taken into To complement our journey towards building a high performance culture, account when making decisions that are likely to affect their interests.
we are also continuing with our initiative to create an internal environment Within the group of operating companies, employee involvement and within Premier Farnell as a great place to work.
There are several global engagement is encouraged at all times, to ensure that employees are activities that transcend national and cultural barriers including our support informed on matters relating to our business performance.
of three Paralympic athletes, and various recreational events.
At the same time, we have also encouraged culturally specic events that resonate with thelocal population.
Our people have access to information about our business through our global Share option scheme intranet, weekly newsletters and Our share option reward schemes extend across the business in all regions, motivating employees through share price growth.
We strongly various town halls, with local business believe in including employees for participation in the Groups performance context, content and translation by providing a stake in our future together.
Our values Our people have access to information about our business, strategy and Core values are central to the long term success of any organisation operational performance through various internal communication channels.
and bind it together with anoperating framework for employees.
This includes our global intranet, weekly newsletters and various town halls, with local business context, content and translation where appropriate.
At Premier Farnell we believe: To support our emphasis on building a high performance culture, all t Customers and suppliers are at the heart ofeverything we do employees in all regions and countries participate in our annual kick-off t Only by working together can we deliver results meetings, which are conducted at the start of the financial year.
The theme of the annual kick-offs provides clarity on the key strategic imperatives and t We must innovate: learning and adapting faster than anyone else allows the shaping of the objectives cascade process which highlights t Developing our people is crucial toour success the individuals expected contribution towards delivering the Companys strategy.
Our ongoing business updates, through regular, consistent and t Integrity and Trust are fundamental toour culture.
open communication, are essential to engaging our people by keeping them informed.
We listen to our employees through both our annual engagement survey and through direct feedback channels to the CEO.
We are rmly committed to understanding and responding tothe internal pulse of our people.
indd 44 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 45 Global Executive Team Premier Farnell is constantly evolving to be a highly efficient, global organisation and the formation of the Global Executive Team GET was another step along this path.
The GET was established in July 2012 as a high level forum of senior leaders to improve accountability, regularly and quickly address issues, decide on priorities and assess the progress of the implementation of the Groups strategy ensuring a consistent and clear focus for the organisation.
The GET, which meets every month and holds one face-to-face meeting per quarter, comprises the CEO, CFO, Regional Business Presidents, Group General Counsel, Chief Technology officer, Chief Strategy officer, Chief of Supply Chain, Chief People officer, Head of MDD Other and Head of Akron Brass.
Subject matter experts attend where relevant tothemeetings agenda.
Senior Leadership Forums Leaders from around the business, including the GET, individual business leaders and functional heads, meet regularly at an internal conference to review, research and develop the Groups strategy.
This approach of strong governance in the Groups strategic direction ensures that now and in the future we are able to continue to execute and deliver on the commitments made to our customers, suppliers, shareholders and employees.
Making a Difference Awards People throughout Premier Farnell embrace our values each and every day.
As part of the Groups commitment to encourage high performance, outstanding contributions made by our employees are recognised and rewarded twice per year in the Making a Difference Awards.
These awards are categorised, with global and regional winners recognised for Customer Supplier Focus, Innovation, Working Together, and there is a Peoples Choice award for an individual who exemplies coaching in action.
Employees and managers are encouraged to submit details of an individual or team that they feel has gone above and beyond their required duties.
All these nominations are then reviewed by the regional senior management team who select which of their regional nominations they believe has delivered exceptional service to the organisation.
Those selected in this regional process are then sent to the members ofthe senior leadership team from around the Group for review.
All of the global winners receive special recognition and an award presented by the CEO.
This year, Premier Farnell recognised 42individuals and teams from around the globethrough the Making a Difference Awards.
Strategic report The Strategic report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 17 April 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Mark Whiteling Chief Financial officer 17 April 2014 017159 PF AR13-14 2 Overview-Gov AW.
