Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 53 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW A.
PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS AS AN INTERNATIONAL UPSTREAM OIL AND GAS COMPANY, PREMIER RECOGNISES THAT OUR SOCIAL, LEGAL AND POLITICAL LICENCE TO OPERATE HAS TO BE EARNED THROUGH A CONSISTENT TRACK RECORD OF RESPONSIBLE AND EFFECTIVE PERFORMANCE.
WE ARE GUIDED IN THIS RESPECT BY A RANGE OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS, WHICH ARE SET OUT BELOW: INTERNAL Values Our core values are the guiding principles that underly our behaviours and activities, and are reflected in our policies and procedures.
They are: Premier Oil Values Spirit Tenacity Dynamism Heart Creativity Professionalism Respect Foundation Vision and strategy Our vision is to be a world-class upstream independent.
Our strategy is to grow shareholder value by leveraging our development capabilities and balance sheet to deliver high quality projects while maintaining exposure to upside from successful exploration.
A responsible approach to our workforce, local communities, business partners, host governments and wider society underpins the achievement of our strategy in the medium and long-term.
Our approach to these stakeholders is summarised in our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy, which is supported by the following policies on specific aspects: Global Code of Conduct Health, Safety, Environment and Security Policy Community Investment Policy Human Rights Policy In addition corporate  risks are subject to our Risk Management Policy and associated risk management system.
This includes our newly developed and 1 integrated ARROW risk management tool.
1 Analysis and Reporting Risk Online Workbench.
54 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements EXTERNAL Premier is an active participant in the following initiatives: United Nations Global Compact UNGC an initiative for business that aims to align their operations and strategies with 10 key principles relating to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption: www.
org International Association of Oil & Gas Producers IOGP which promotes safe, responsible and sustainable operations in the oil and gas industry and supports the identification and sharing of best practice across a range of areas, including health, safety, the environment, security, social responsibility, engineering and operations: www.
org International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association IPIECA which supports the oil and gas industry to continuously improve its operations and products, to meet societys expectations for environmental and social performance: www.
org Premier Oil also applies the following external standards: The OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management system standard and ISO 14001 environmental management system standard.
These are applied to all Premier operated production assets Balmoral, Anoa, Gajah Baru and Chim So and our global drilling operations.
Chim So is currently going through the assessment phase for these standards: www.
org Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Voluntary Principles, which Premier joined in May 2014: www.
org Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 Guidelines, which we are applying for the first time in 2014 2015: www.
org In addition, we are in the process of implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, including relevant due diligence requirements.
B. MATERIALITY IN LINE WITH THE G4 GUIDELINES, PREMIER HAS CARRIED OUT AN EXTENSIVE EXERCISE TO ASSESS AND PRIORITISE ITS MATERIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ISSUES.
THIS PROCESS AND ITS OUTCOMES HAVE DIRECTLY INFORMED THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT.
Materiality Process Our formal, systematic Materiality Process is based on a series of iterative assessments using a common, quantitative scoring framework.
It draws on a range of internal and external documentary sources as well as internal and external engagement with relevant discipline experts, managers and other stakeholders.
The criteria applied in this process include: The actual or potential ability of Premier to impact on stakeholders: and The actual or potential ability of stakeholders to impact upon Premiers business.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 55 Each step of this process is illustrated below: Materiality Process 1.
Development including: GRI G4 Aspects prioritisation of all of the final discipline experts applicable to GRI G4 Aspects Materiality and functional a Internal review Premier in light of: Assessment, of Premiers managers to including the previous a Internal understand consolidation and current feedback, operating of individual corporate including contexts and GRI G4 Aspects responsibility business unit into higher-level applicable issues issues perceptions corporate of local b External review responsibility stakeholder of issues facing Issues issues the oil and gas sector b External and Premiers feedback from host societies a dedicated Stakeholder Forum Materiality results The overall results of the Materiality Process can be seen in the matrix below.
We use materiality as a basis for our annual corporate responsibility reporting.
Presentation of an issue as non-material on this matrix does not mean it is irrelevant or that it is not managed by Premier.
Premier Oil corporate responsibility materiality matrix MATERIAL ISSUES NON-MATERIAL ISSUES 16 1 Governance and ethics 15 Supply chain management 20 2 Occupational health 23 and safety 16 Market behaviour 17 3 Asset integrity and 17 Customer impacts process safety 18 General grievance 19 4 Emergency mechanisms 22 11 preparedness 13 19 Product responsibility 18 5 Environment General 15 20 Resource use 12 21 9 5 6 Climate change and 21 Biodiversity 6 8 GHGs 1 1 10 22 Community impacts 7 Pollution prevention 23 Child forced labour 8 Workforce 7 14 9 Training and 2 development 10 Employee engagement 3 4 11 Generating value for communities High Low 12 Human rights Impact on Premier Oil 13 Public policy and government relations 14 Economic contributions Although this process demonstrated that many of Premiers most material issues have already been integrated into previous rounds of corporate responsibility reporting and assurance, it will result in increased emphasis being given to a range of issues, including for example : Governance and ethics, including internal and external corruption risks Social impacts, including our overall economic impacts on the societies in which we operate Supply chain risks and impacts, including around human rights Strategic, long-term carbon emissions targets, including anticipated regulatory and economic pressures Public policy and government relations, including key policy issues such as resource nationalism and areas of disputed sovereignty In addition, the process has highlighted the non-material nature of community impacts for Premier, given the offshore nature of its operated assets.
Nonetheless, we are determined to have a positive impact in the societies in which we operate and supplementary details around some of our new and on-going community investment initiatives are set out below.
Impact on stakeholders High Low 56 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements C. HIGH-LEVEL MATERIAL ISSUES AN EXAMINATION OF OUR HIGH-LEVEL MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES, INCLUDING AN EXPLANATION OF WHY THEY ARE MATERIAL, HOW WE MANAGE THEM AND OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, ARE SET OUT BELOW FURTHER DETAIL WILL BE FOUND IN OUR 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT : MATERIAL ISSUE: GOVERNANCE Why this issue is material: Good governance Training and monitoring provides a framework that allows the right Each of our business units is analysed for decisions to be taken by the right people at risks relating to corruption, some being more the right time.
Good governance underpins exposed than others depending on geography the entire scope of our business and our and area of activities.
We aim to provide all ability to act in a way that is not only legally employees with training on the Code within one compliant but which is also responsible.
We month of their induction and thereafter on an are committed to transparency, responsibility annual basis.
Training which takes account of and compliance in all of our business activities.
local nuances and cultural norms is delivered through interactive workshops and online How we manage this issue: Our Corporate modules.
In 2013, all employees received Responsibility Policy is owned and promulgated induction or refresher training on the Code.
by our Board whilst its supporting policies are In 2014, all new employees went through owned and implemented by our Executive the induction training, but a number of data Committee.
These supporting policies include processing and procedural issues resulted in Premiers Business Ethics Policy and our reduced uptake of refresher training.
We are activities in this respect are governed by our implementing remedial measures to address Global Code of Conduct the Code, which these challenges.
We are confident following applies to all Premier employees and those reviews at our major business units that all associated with Premier such as consultants.
employees directly exposed to significant The Code is available in both English and business ethics risks are appropriately trained Bahasa Indonesia for those employees and and compliant with the Code.
In addition, contractors based at our operations in we give embedded consultants access to the Indonesia, and supplementary explanatory online training modules.
material is available in Vietnamese for our staff in Vietnam.
The Code is compliant with Whistle-blowing hotline the United Kingdom Bribery Act and covers: Premier encourages employees, contractors and agency workers to voice their concerns to line anti-corruption managers if they think the company or anyone facilitation payments working on behalf of the company has not acted gifts and hospitality given and received in accordance with the Global Code of Conduct.
charitable and political donations Premier provides a confidential and well appointment of intermediaries publicised independent third party reporting hotline for employees who feel unable to raise Prospective key contractors are evaluated to concerns via other procedures.
This hotline is ensure that they have similar policies and available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
The Code requires all transactions One report was made through this service in relating to Premier to be recorded in proper 2014.
A full independent investigation resulted detail with appropriate supporting evidence in no material adverse findings.
No material and in accordance with applicable accounting incidents of corruption or non-compliance with and reporting standards.
Any breach of the the Code were identified in 2014.
Code will result in disciplinary action and, in extreme cases, will result in instant dismissal.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in monitoring adherence to the Code, which is supported by a comprehensive, company-wide training programme.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 57 MATERIAL ISSUE: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Why this issue is material: As an offshore oil We recognise that our business activities and gas operator, health and safety is have the potential to cause major accidents paramount given the risks associated with and we are committed to managing our and involvement in potentially hazardous operations to prevent them.
We seek to activities and operating environments.
This is provide a high level of protection to our not only due to the potential human impacts employees, contractors, visitors, neighbours on employees and contractors, but also and the environment and believe that all the importance we attach to operational major accidents are preventable.
We carry continuity, environmental performance and out regular reviews of our operations to reputation amongst our employees, business identify major accident potential and to drive partners, government partners and investors.
improvements to achieve this objective.
How we manage this issue: Premier is HSES performance targets are monitored, committed to operating responsibly in order measured and reported on an on-going basis to ensure the safety of everyone involved to the Executive Committee and to the Board.
in our operations and to protect the Safety by design: Premier has integrated environment.
We will never knowingly process safety protocols into the project compromise our health and safety standards safety reviews PSRs of all projects.
These to meet operational objectives.
reviews, carried out at each project phase, Premiers HSES Policy sets out our provide assurance that material HSE issues commitment to operating responsibly and is have been identified and are being effectively supported by our HSES Management managed throughout the project.
A typical System which contains a comprehensive set project will require six strategic reviews as of procedures and standards.
These include it moves from concept to construction our Golden Rules designed to help address and then to operation.
PSRs are aligned with the most common causes of serious incidents our project approval gates, at which time at oil and gas facilities.
The overall HSES strategic decisions are made either to Management System is subjected to internal progress a project further towards the and external review, including external operations stage, or to delay or divest.
Safety certification to OHSAS 18001 for production Cases are in place at all our operated and drilling.
Our Safety Case regime is consistent with UK regulatory standards.
Our operating assets are reviewed every 5 years to ensure continued compliance.
Safety Cases are reviewed either by the local regulatory authority or by a competent independent third party.
Key indicators Health and Safety Material Safety Parameters and Indicators 2012 2013 2014 Fatalities 2 Lost Work Day Cases 5 18 7 Restricted Work Day Cases 25 2 Medical Treatment Cases 4 17 5 Total Recordable Injury Rate per million man-hours 1.8 3.4 1.5 High Potential Incidents HiPo Rate per million man-hours 1.3 0.7 1.0 2012 2013 2014 Total man-hours million 6.1 11.7 10.8 58 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR : Our TRIR There was a slight increase in the HiPo rate performance included one contractor fatality per million man-hours during the reporting which occurred as a result of an offshore cycle.
A total of 11 HiPos were recorded in vessel collision and one third party fatality 2014 compared to the nine reported in 2013. as a result of a road traffic accident on a This increase can at least partly be attributed public highway.
Both incidents occurred in to improvements in our reporting process South East Asia.
No blame was attached to and quality of investigations.
Premier in either case but we have taken All 11 HiPos identified in 2014 were investigated additional steps to reduce the risk of these in depth.
Corrective actions were identified incidents recurring.
Despite these regrettable and implemented.
Any lessons learnt were incidents, the overall improvement in TRIR communicated across the organisation through performance reflect continued management our safety alerts programme.
focus on occupational health and safety, particularly in our core operated assets, and Process Safety performance: One way of a reduction in typically higher-risk contracted recording process safety events is through construction work, as well as a transfer to the measurement of loss of primary less hazardous forms of construction work on containment LOPC.
Premier has continued key projects.
to work with IOGP to harmonise process safety performance measurement across High Potential Incidents HiPos are a leading the industry.
There were no Tier 1 gas over indicator of potential major accidents and 500 kg, oil over 1000 kg per hour or Tier 2 serious injuries.
The recording and reporting gas over 50 kg, oil over 100 kg per hour of HiPos allow us to learn how to prevent or LOPC incidents recorded for 2014, reflecting mitigate future significant incidents.
This the further development and group-wide involves addressing the root causes of implementation of the Process Safety these incidents.
The assessment of HiPos Management System.
We record all losses complements the proactive testing of asset of primary containment irrespective of integrity safety systems and management volumes released, however we report only under our Safety Case regime see above.
losses over a severity threshold as defined in IOGP Guidance Report 456.
2012 2013 2014 LOPC events 1 kg 20 12 11 MATERIAL ISSUE: ENVIRONMENT Why this issue is material: As with health and How we manage this issue: This issue safety, the environmental risks associated is managed through Premiers HSES with offshore oil and gas operations are Management System which defines the continuously assessed and managed.
systematic approach to environmental Furthermore, they pose a material risk for management throughout the lifecycle of Premier itself due to both the potential our operations and projects.
The ISO 14001 impacts that environmental incidents may environmental management system standard have on our corporate reputation and the risk is applied to and independently audited at of non-compliance with our contractual and all of Premiers operated production assets regulatory environmental obligations.
Balmoral, Anoa, Gajah Baru and Chim So and our global drilling operations.
Chim So is currently going through the assessment phase for this standard.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 59 Under the HSES Management System, industry database compiled and published on-going environmental and social impact by the IOGP.
As an oil and gas company with assessment, monitoring and reporting takes production facilities in the North Sea, we place at all our operations to ensure we comply with the European Union Emission reduce our impact to a level that is as low Trading Scheme and submit an annual, as reasonably practicable.
We report our externally-verified report on our emissions environmental performance in line with the profile to the United Kingdom Department IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on of Energy and Climate Change.
We also Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 2010 and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
and comply with requirements of the recently Our greenhouse gas GHG emissions introduced UK Energy Saving Opportunity performance is benchmarked against an Scheme ESOS.
Key indicators Environment Material Environmental Indicator 2012 2013 2014 GHG intensity tonnes 1000 tonnes of production 242 288 242 Oil spills tonnes 0.8 0.1 0.2 Oil in produced water ppm-wt 10.0 11.3 9.0 Energy consumption GJ tonne of production 2.0 1.9 2.2 Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions Spills and discharges 1 In 2014, total Scope 1 GHG emissions We maintain oil spill contingency plans for each associated with hydrocarbon combustion of our operations and have on-going contracts at Premier-operated facilities amounted with oil spill response specialists to provide to 947,724 tonnes 2013: 958,566 tonnes, support in the unlikely event of a major incident.
a year-on-year decrease of 1.1 per cent.
General environmental management This reflected: estimated expenditure on goods and services A substantive reduction in flaring at Chim that support the protection of the environment : So following significant investment In 2014 we spent US$170,385 on community in the upgrading of its boilers and investment programmes focused on other technological interventions to environmental conservation.
Whilst we track decrease the need for flaring, leading to these costs we dont separately account for a 30 per cent reduction in average environmental expenditure, although as an emission intensity operating E&P business, we do spend significant A 224 per cent increase in emissions from sums on environmental management.
Spending drilling, largely due to increased project on our operated assets includes emissions development control equipment, maintenance, operating materials and services, and related personnel.
Premiers operated production assets Across the wider business we spend on areas emissions intensity decreased from 288 tonnes including environmental education and training: per thousand tonnes of production in 2013 to exercises to test response procedures such 242 tonnes in 2014.
As noted above, this as those in the event of an oil spill: and reduction reflects significant investment in external costs including those for certification reducing flaring at Chim So.
In 2015 As well as monitoring GHG emissions from our we will consider the scope for expanding our operated assets, we calculate emissions on an cost reporting to more fully track our operational equity basis for production across our global environmental expenditure.
GHG intensity from flaring and fuel gas combustion associated with our full equity portfolio amounted to 212 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 2013: 214 tonnes.
In 2014, energy consumption at our key offices was approximately 2,174,650 kilowatt hours equivalent to 979 tonnes of CO emissions.
2 1 i. e. combustion emissions: flaring and venting: significant stationary sources: and significant mobile sources.
60 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements MATERIAL ISSUE: EMPLOYEES Why this issue is material: Like any company, When recruiting, developing and dealing our ability to recruit, retain, develop and with employees and service providers, we will motivate high-quality, skilled employees and treat people fairly, equally and without contractors is vital to the on-going success of prejudice.
This sentiment is embedded in our our business.
This is particularly the case in employment policies, which apply to all the highly mobile, international oil and gas permanent, contractual and temporary staff, employment market where competition for and job applicants.
We also respect the right the right kinds of technical and management of individual employees to join a legitimate skills is strong.
Premier seeks to treat those trade union.
Through training both internal who work for the company fairly, to encourage and external and appraisal, we encourage professional development and to appropriately staff to develop their own professional skills reward high calibre performance.
to the advantage of both the individual and the company.
During 2014, we continued to How we manage this issue: Human Resources implement a suite of updated HR tools, issues are addressed by a number of Premiers policies and processes to facilitate employee policies.
As well as those contained in the recruitment, development and retention.
Human Resources Management System, these include the overarching Corporate There were no reported violations of our Responsibility Policy, the Human Rights Policy employment policies in 2014.
There were also and the Global Code of Conduct.
no reported incidents of discrimination.
One formal grievance was received and actioned.
Premier is committed to providing staff with fair and competitive terms of employment and safe working conditions.
We are an equal opportunities employer.
This entails respecting individuals regardless of race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, age, religion or belief, gender, sexual orientation, marital status or disability.
Company demography Gender Age Country Male Female 18-30 31 50 50 Total Falkland Islands 39 17 9 29 18 56 Indonesia 407 67 48 357 69 474 Norway 22 10 4 19 9 32 Brazil 33 426 Pakistan 13 11 11 2 14 Singapore 691 95 15 United Kingdom 163 86 49 129 71 249 Vietnam 35 46 14 61 6 81 Total 688 239 126 619 182 927 13.6% 66.8% 19.6% 100% Composition of senior management defined as Gd5 and above 94% 6% CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 61 Key indicators Employees Change Material issue Premier Oil metric 2012 2013 2014 in 2014 Comments 1 Workforce Number of 816 42 880 67 927 91 0.05% The slight increase in employees at end 36% employee numbers of year turnover reflects existing and new during the year project activity, partly staffed by employees but significantly supported by specialist contractors on a term basis.
Employee turnover trend is increasing but will have been impacted by negative job market conditions in late 2014.
Increasing activity over Employee Diversity of Upward Growing and growing variety of channels engagement communications trend predominantly positive weekly team meetings, channels on feedback from staff corporate intranet, ExCo topics of across the group.
member VLogs, BU Town employee Hall meetings.
interest Training and Average hours 48 25 30 20% Induction of new development of training employees, HSE and per employee emergency response training, continuous professional development.
Workforce Annual graduate n a 56 20% An important component entry programme of refreshing our workforce.
intake 1 Restatement: Effective 3 December 2013, 73 contractors in our Indonesia BU were retrospectively re-classified as fixed-term employees.
MATERIAL ISSUE: COMMUNITY RELATIONS Why this issue is material: The offshore nature How we manage this issue: This issue is of our operations means that community addressed by Premiers Community Investment relations are not as critical an issue for Premier Policy, which is applied through the broader as for onshore extractive companies.
Nonetheless, it remains important due to: Amongst other things, the Community Investment Policy commits Premier to a The impact of our activities on local fishing engaging transparently with all stakeholders, communities as well as our reliance on treating neighbours with respect and working certain onshore communities as transit and to have a positive socio-economic impact on logistics points for our offshore operations: local communities.
In this context, the b The important role that our community Community Investment Management System investment activities play in terms of our supports the systematic identification, wider reputation and social licence to management, evaluation and budgeting of operate with key stakeholders including disbursements and interactions in host local employees and host governments: countries.
In order to more accurately reflect the financial contribution Premier makes to c The impact of our onshore exploration and local communities, we are analysing the development activities in countries such as proportion by value of key contracts with Iraq, Kenya and Pakistan and the potential local suppliers and plan to make appropriate for our future establishment of onshore disclosures in future reports.
62 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Key indicators Community relations Change Material issue Premier Oil metric 2012 2013 2014 in 2014 Comments Generating Community 0.67 1.15 1.06 8% Performance reflects value for investment spend general fluctuations in communities US$ million project spending with more material reductions expected in 2015.
Please note, community investment spend is also included within the Economic value distributed indicator in the Key indicators Society table below.
MATERIAL ISSUE: SOCIETY Why this issue is material: Premiers activities Human Rights and relationships have the potential to Premiers Human Rights Policy explicitly recognises impact a wide set of stakeholders.
Likewise, the moral, reputational and operational value of these stakeholders have the potential to respecting and promoting human rights, both impact Premiers business.
Such impacts inside and outside our company.
The Policy including those relating to human rights, addresses the rights of our employees as well as government policy and economic value our external stakeholders, in particular the local creation can take place not only at a local communities where we work.
level, but also at a national level.
In this context, Our Human Rights Policy commits us to: it is important for Premier to minimise any adverse impact it could otherwise have on engage with stakeholders in our efforts to the rights and wellbeing of its host societies, respect and promote these rights to work constructively with government and recognise the development and cultural rights to demonstrate its value to the societies it of local communities as basic human rights operates in.
recognise our responsibility to respect the How we manage this issue: Our interactions rights of indigenous peoples in all countries with society are managed through a number where we operate of policies and associated management systems including our overarching Corporate help prevent, manage and resolve conflict Responsibility Policy, Code of Conduct, where we are in a position to do so Human Rights Policy and Risk Management ensure we are in no way involved or associated Policy.
They are also guided by broader with the issue of forced, involuntary or societal norms and standards, including child labour the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business ensure our security practices do not undermine and Human Rights, international law and the human rights of local communities general societal expectations, all of which are encourage joint venture partners to adopt taken into consideration in our planning and the principles in this policy decision making.
consider withdrawal from relationships with business partners where there is no evidence that they are moving towards the application of international human rights standards use our legitimate influence to promote human rights outside our areas of operation There were no reported violations of our Human Rights Policy in 2014.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 63 Public policy and government relations Host societies who give us our social Managing our relations with government licence to operate as we extract national Our host country governments represent some hydrocarbon resources and responsibly of our most important stakeholders, in terms of undertake activities that have the potential to policy, legislation and the awarding of new impact on the environment licences.
Public policy and government relations Employees who ultimately underpin our ability are key areas of focus for our stakeholder to operate and create value engagement activities.
Any failure to deliver value to these key Each of our Business Units is responsible at actors would ultimately undermine our core functional level for regular operational engagement business objectives.
with host governments and regulators.
For more strategic issues, local engagement will take place Managing our economic contributions through our corporate Business Unit Managers.
We believe our host societies should benefit All engagement is carried out in line with from the extraction of finite natural resources and Premiers applicable policies, including its we are proud of our role in generating shared Corporate Responsibility Policy, Code of value from national oil and gas reservoirs.
Conduct and Human Rights Policy.
Licence bids Much of this value stays in our host societies, are directly made to governments by our directly supporting long-term socio-economic Exploration Business Unit, with appropriate development and helping ensure our long-term support from our corporate office.
In 2014, Premier did not: Our most important means of distributing economic value are through: Make any party political donations or contributions Payments to other businesses, including locally-based service contractors and suppliers Receive any significant financial assistance 1 from government Payments to our workforce, including wages and benefits for employees from our Have any direct government shareholders host countries Premier is a member of a number of bodies Payments to our providers of capital, including that use their legitimate influence to lobby shareholder dividends and interest on debt governments on issues affecting the oil and gas sector.
These include the following organisations: Payments to government, including cash taxes, royalties and other payments to our Association of British Independent Oil and 2 host governments Gas Exploration Companies Community investment spending Falkland Islands Petroleum Licencees Association In 2014, our total economic value distribution amounted to US$1,035.1 million.
Indonesian Petroleum Association As part of its efforts to maximise the amount of IOGP value staying with host societies, and in line with Oil & Gas UK relevant local content requirements, Premier seeks to: Pakistan Petroleum Exploration and Production Companies Association Employ nationals where they are suitably qualified and support the build-up of Economic contributions sustainable local skills-bases in all our Our strategy and legal obligation is to generate operating locations value for our shareholders.
We believe we can best achieve this is by operating in a way that Use host country service contractors and delivers tangible mutual benefits both to suppliers where they are able to meet our Premiers shareholders and its broader operational and economic requirements stakeholders, including: Host governments who give us access to oil and gas licences and regulate our operational activities 1 This includes notwithstanding the application of general national fiscal frameworks any exceptional and significant tax relief credits, subsidies, investment grants, awards, royalty holidays, financial support from export credit agencies and other financial benefits from any government.
2 Currently, only Norway is a member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI whilst the United Kingdom is a candidate and Indonesias membership has been suspended, Premier is not currently a member of the EITI.
64 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements D. KEY COMMUNITY PROJECTS IN 2014 IN 2014, PREMIER UNDERTOOK A RANGE OF COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROJECTS, BOTH NEW AND ON-GOING.
SOME EXAMPLES OF THESE PROJECTS ARE SET OUT BELOW.
PROJECT: OPERATION WALLACEA UNITED KINGDOM INDONESIA Context Actions in 2014 Operation Wallacea is an organisation which Premier received a number of new oversees biological and conservation undergraduate enquiries following our 2013 management research programmes in a range sponsorship of two Operation Wallacea of international locations.
It brings together participants to undertake field research in multi-disciplinary academic teams at target the Wakatobi Marine Park in Indonesia.
study sites giving them the opportunity In response, Premier established an annual to establish best practice management bursary to provide financial support to up models and to establish biodiversity and to 10 United Kingdom based undergraduate socio-economic data sets to support effective students participating in Operation Wallaceas conservation management programmes.
The bursary is intended to support beneficiaries as they seek additional sources of funding rather than paying for their participation in its entirety.
In 2014, Premier also responded to a request from the Fortismere School in London to provide financial support for its sixth-form students to participate in the Operation Wallacea field research programme in Indonesia.
Impacts In 2014, 10 undergraduate participants from across the United Kingdom were given 1,000 bursaries to carry out both land based research in the Lambusango jungle reserve of Buton and marine research on the island of Hoga in the Wakatobi National Park in Sulawesi which is particularly rich in coral life.
This included participation in scuba diving training, a coral reef ecology course, coral reef monitoring, biodiversity measurement and bird research.
Data gathered by the participants was made available to both the Indonesian Government and Wakatobi National Park officials.
This will help the authorities focus their conservation efforts on the most vulnerable and or worst affected areas both at land and sea.
In addition to the undergraduate programme, a total of 32 sixth form students from the Fortismere School joined the programme for two weeks: www.
com STUDIES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 65 PROJECT: EXPANSION OF THE SOC TRANG MANGROVE PROJECT, VIETNAM Context Actions in 2014 Soc Trang province in the Mekong Delta plays Premier built on its existing partnership with the an important role in national agricultural and Vietnam Red Cross to plant and cultivate new aquaculture production, both of which provide mangroves in the province by contributing livelihoods for local communities.
A narrow US$75,000 and providing management support.
mangrove belt helps protect inshore lands Impacts from flooding and storm damage, whilst Premiers 2014 contributions supported the sequestering carbon emissions and enriching planting of an additional 20 hectares of the natural ecology of the intertidal zone.
The mangroves equivalent to around 120,000 mangroves face a number of threats, including trees, adding to the 20 hectares of planting rising sea levels as a result of climate change, that Premier supported in 2013.
These flooding and economically driven deforestation.
additional mangroves will help ensure the local coastline is protected from future erosion and will enhance aquaculture harvests for local communities.
Furthermore, they are contributing to a wider multi-stakeholder programme involving local and national government agencies, including the Deutsche Gesellschaft fr Internationale Zusammenarbeit GIZ development agency, to promote integrated coastal zone management.
The programme is ultimately aimed at balancing the need for local economic development with the sustainable management of local natural resources: www.
vn Context Impacts Premier has been involved in a major The Margalla Hills National Park development conservation project in the Margalla Hills project achieves two major environmental National Park to the north of Islamabad since benefits.
The first is the conservation of the 2010 known as Phase 1.
The park, which sits in fauna and flora of this biodiversity rich area, the foothills of the Himalayas, covers 67 square which includes subtropical pine forest, tropical miles and is run as a public-private partnership deciduous and thorn forest, as well as indigenous involving the Himalayan Wildlife Foundation species that migrate from snowbound areas to and the Capital Development Authority CDA.
the north to take shelter in the parks vegetated Since 2010, the project has enhanced the parks slopes and gorges during winter.
The second is eco-tourism facilities through the construction to open up the area the only national park of hiking trails, a bike trail and a visitor centre, within access of Islamabad to local people, provided local vegetation management, ensuring they can enjoy the recreational and supported research into and the protection of educational opportunities offered by the facility endangered species and provided water access in a sustainable way.
As such, the project will for local people.
help preserve local biodiversity and ecosystems whilst also providing the whole of Islamabad Actions in 2014 with a much loved escape from the city for In 2014, Premier contributed US$80,000 to the many years to come: www.
This money was used to help initiate a major new phase in the development of the park.
This phase focuses on five key projects, including: 1 the construction of an artificial wetland to naturally process local sewage: 2 the creation of a bird sanctuary on Rawal Dam to protect migratory and other water birds: 3 awareness-raising and education for schoolchildren: 4 capacity building at the CDA: and 5 the management and maintenance of existing trails.
The Strategic Report was approved by the board of directors on 25 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Tony Durrant Chief Executive PROJECT: PHASE 2 OF THE MARGALLA HILLS NATIONAL PARK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT, PAKISTAN
