20 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Corporate Social Responsibility Doing Good Business We are on a mission to do good business in every aspect of our organisation.
Its part of our heritage and our culture to operate with integrity and thought to make a positive social and environmental impact.
21 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Our guiding principles delivered by this approach.
Through active Doing Good Our guiding CSR values and principles listening and proactive engagement with are set out in our Doing Good Business our stakeholders including: shareholders, BusinessWorks statement and are based on six key areas customers, consumers, suppliers, where we have identified our operations employees and wider communities, the Introduction could potentially have the biggest positive business CSR activities are aligned to their At PZ Cussons we are committed to Doing or negative impact.
Good Business, conducting our business with integrity and care.
This ethos forms Theenvironment Our industry operates within an increasingly part of the Companys DNA and the Consumersafety regulated arena and we believe that our foundations on which the Company was Health andsafety stance on environmental issues and our built 130 years ago.
Business conduct andethics proactive CSR practices also reduce the Ouremployees riskof adverse regulatoryaction.
This report outlines our Corporate Social Local community andcharity Responsibility CSR principles and the key Corporate Social Responsibility Committee steps we have taken during the year and The statement relates to all our Groups The PZ Cussons Board is responsible continue to make to uphold the Groups global operations and its policies and for overseeing CSR within the Group, values and principles.
principles apply to every Director, manager supported by a Corporate Social and employee, whom we encourage and Responsibility Committee CSR Committee.
Doing Good Business works for us and motivate to use these principles in their day Following each CSR Committee meeting, is part of our culture.
We aim to make a to day working lives.
the CSR Committees Chair reports to the positive impact on society through the Board on the CSR Committees proceedings products we produce at every stage of We believe that by engendering a doing relating to matters within the scope of theprocess, from formulation, to sourcing the right thing business culture and by itsremit.
materials, manufacture, packaging demonstrating how Doing Good Business anddistribution.
works in practice, the Group provides an The CSR Committees terms of reference environment for employees to pursue are available on the PZ Cussons Group We pay careful attention to how we interact opportunities and to be involved in website www.
with the local communities in which we activities which have a positive impact on operate and the positive contributions we society and theenvironment.
The CSR Committee and the Board have make to the lives of those who intersect reviewed and endorsed this CSRreport.
Our CSR principles are integral to the results that the Group has successfully A copy of the Doing Good Business delivered over the years and to our statement on CSR is available on continued future success and growth thePZCussons Group website aspirations.
In particular, we understand the www.
potential strategic benefits which can be The environment Health and safety We are committed to protecting the environment Our working environments offer safe and secure environs andaddressing our impacts on both the local and forour people, visitors andcontractors.
Business conduct Our employees We are proud of our diverse employee mix, the skills andethics theybring and the essential contribution they make toourbusinesssuccess.
Doing good ethical business is a core value that is weaved through all our business activities and third partydealings.
Consumer safety Local community We are committed to excellence and to providing andcharity consumerswith safe, trustworthy products that .
We believe that doing good business should have a benefit foreveryone, including the local communities we operate within and the charities which share ourvalues.
22 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts The environment The business continues to see a year on Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Carbon year reduction in both its absolute and We have been working with the Carbon 28.3% reduction in normalised carbon normalised CO emissions.
As stated in last Disclosure Project since 2007 and are 2 emissions per tonne of product versus years report, the new PZ Wilmar edible committed to reducing our carbon lastyear.
oil refining operation is included in this footprint.
We currently report on Scope 1 years data which has added over 200,000 and 2emissions.
We take responsibility for how our business tonnes of production to the business.
may impact on the environment, from the However, absolute emissions have reduced The CDP is an internationally renowned notway we manufacture, how consumers use by 10% and this equates to an outstanding for-profit organisation which provides an our products to the logistics needed to reduction in normalised CO of 28.3% in the independent global system for companies 2 bring them to market.
and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information.
We are now two years into our three year The Supply Chain Energy Reduction environmental improvement plan, with our programme is at the heart of our The Scope 1 and Scope 2 Carbon emissions operating units showing good results and environmental improvement.
At the for the CDP are presented on page 38 of continued engagement in achieving our same time we are working with different the Report of theDirectors.
stretch targets for reducing our impacts organisations, such as Lancaster ontheenvironment.
University, to establish our impact on Water the local environments and methods We recognise our key role in responding Ensuring that water resources are used ofimprovement.
conscientiously and doing the right thing efficiently and responsibly is an important in business to help minimise any adverse strand of our CSR activity.
We have a keen Our ambitious reduction programme has impacts to the environment.
We continue awareness that some countries where we been achieved around the business, yielding to take positive steps to tackle issues and have operations have been defined by energy and cost savings through a number make a positive contribution to meeting the United Nations as being water scarce, ofmethods: global environmental challenges, including stressed or vulnerable.
Instantaneous live energy monitoring identifying and rigorously pursuing has been installed at a further three opportunities to reduce the Groups We continue to set ourselves demanding factories during 2013 14.
This provides reliance on unsustainable materials.
targets for reducing water consumption in a minute by minute measurement Wecarefully balance our responsibilities, our manufacturing processes and finding that helps to identify opportunities like any robust business, with the need solutions to recycle or return water back to save energy.
Changes in working todeliver ongoing margin improvement to the water course, especially within our practices and new capital investment andexcellent shareholdervalue.
Nigerian operations which account for the have resulted from our live monitoring majority of the Groups total water usage.
systems, now installed in 40% of Our focus on reducing water usage within ourfactories Carbon our Nigerian business has paid dividends.
The use of specialised water treatment We have seen a 25% reduction over the plants and processing equipment which year, with the help of our new cooling tower use lower temperatures to work with in Aba which recycles water used in cooling high viscosity materials processes.
Likewise, other countries have Renewing the Thailand factorys main 10% yielded reductions, such as Poland, where chilled water and air compressors with reduction in absolute carbon emissions river water usage has reduced by over45%.
the latest moderntechnology versus our 2011 12 baseline.
Replacing traditional lighting with low energy LED lighting installations Water throughout our UKoperations Our approach focusses on achieving Integrating air conditioning, heating, greater energy efficiency and reducing ventilation systems into the UKs emissions associated with the types of Building Management System to control fuels we consume to supply energy in our units during operating hours and to factories, through traditional fossil fuels, 19% employ auto-switch off at theweekends gas or electricity.
Where possible, we are reduction in absolute water usage versus our committed to using low carbon sources of 2011 12 baseline.
Target 12% carbon footprint reduction energy and exploring the use of alternative, by2015 versus our 2011 12baseline.
Target achieved 10% reduction in consumption by2015 versus our 2011 12baseline.
23 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Palm oil plantations and regeneration Since 2010, we have been investing in new palm oil plantations and regeneration of old state-owned plantations in Nigeria, which are following RSPO principles and criteria, via our JV with Wilmar International, PZ Wilmar.
The plantations will eventually contribute ongoing oil supply to the JVs new food ingredients consumer brands, Devon Kings and Mamador.
Ultimately, PZ Wilmar will contribute to the worlds supply of deforestation free palm oil production using best practices and is already supporting the wider Nigerian palm oil industry and economy.
Palm oil is indigenous to Nigeria and our plantations do not compete with local food crops or vegetation.
We are working with the Nigerian Government and local farmers, to revive an industry which we hope will bring significant benefits to local people, without causing harm to theenvironment.
Our joint venture partner, Wilmar International Limited, is a fellow RSPO member and one of the worlds leading producers of RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil.
In December 2013 it announced its membership ofTFT and unveiled its far-reaching No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitationpolicy.
24 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts The environment continued systems and tackling environmental and Packaging Waste social issues throughout the palm oil Packaging our products in an environmental We strive to reduce the level of waste supplychain.
way to reduce waste and the global we generate as a bi-product of our resources we consume remains a strategic manufacturing processes, whether from Our membership of TFT builds upon our focus.
Work on light weighting, optimising incoming goods, non-conforming products ongoing membership of the Roundtable structural and material design to eliminate requiring disposal or water needed to clean on Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO, which unnecessary packaging materials continues our plants at the end of production.
It strengthens our with notablesuccesses.
adopting responsible wastage policies and commitment to ensuring that the palm through careful monitoring, we continue to oil used in our range of personal and We understand that it is not a realistic minimise environmental impacts and have home care, beauty and food products target to eliminate packaging completely a positive effect on the amount of natural is responsibly sourced and does not therefore, in addition to our light weighting resources we consume, the levels of waste contribute to deforestation, respects initiatives, we also encourage our we need to dispose of and the substantial localand indigenous communities and consumers to reuse and recycle packaging.
financial savings we can bring tothe business.
Target 10% packaging reduction Details of these commitments are in weight by2015 versus our Waste contained in the PZ Palm Oil Promise, 2011 12baseline.
our new global code of conduct which includes achieving traceability throughout Building on past successes, during the year our supply chain and only using palm oil we have continued our commitment to from sources that do not contribute to 16% packaging light-weighting, reducing the deforestation via planting on peat soils, waste reduction versus our 2011 12 baseline.
using fire to clear land or development of 5 million Carex handwash bottles by High Carbon Stock HCS forest or High 2gperbottle Conservation Value HCV areas.
Visit Target achieved 15% reduction in 12 million Imperial Leather handwash our website www.
com for waste disposal including effluent bottles by 2g perbottle moredetails.
8 million Morning Fresh washing up liquid bottles by 2g perbottle We are working with TFT to map our supply A 65% reduction in waste was achieved 10 million Imperial Leather shower chain to ultimately achieve fulltraceability.
by adopting new environmental bottles by 2.5g perbottle ways of working in Greece and 7.2% 18 million Original Source shower bottles We will work closely with all our suppliers, reduction for Nigeria.
Poland has also by 2.5g perbottle both direct and third party, and our joint reduced its waste by 34%, which again venture partner Wilmar International, is a significant achievement attained In Indonesia, we have successfully moved to embed our Palm Oil Promise.
In the through a combination of packaging our plastic bottles from PVC toPET.
meantime, we have procured GreenPalm waste reductions and a decrease in certificates to help offset the palm oil .
Our African operations have taken used in our UK, Australian and Polish significant steps to reduce our carbon soap products.
We will also continue to Strengthening our commitment to footprint through increasing its local report annually on our use of palm oil via responsible palm oil sourcing policies for laminates and our Annual Communication on Progress Palm oil is the most widely traded vegetable captooling.
oil in the world and is used in many food and household products.
It is also high-yielding A continuing challenge is to measure and land-efficient when grown responsibly packaging consumption in all territories, and it is contributing positively to economic however, we anticipate further progress development in several emerging markets, inthis nextyear.
Securing a long-term sustainable supply of this raw material is important to PZ Cussons and is a complex challenge faced across our industry.
We took another step towards achieving this goal by becoming members of The Forest Trust TFT in May 2014.
TFT is a not-for-profit organisation with expertise and experience of setting up traceability 25 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Business conduct andethics We operate in a business environment Speak up global Animals in Medical Experiments in support we have carefully created to be open,  of their research activities and campaign honest and fair with our suppliers, We encourage and offer our employees for better science.
We believe their valuable customers, business partners, and a forum to Speak Up via our Global work in the advance of non-animal methods regulatory authorities.
We show respect Whistleblowing programme if they is to the benefit of the whole cosmetics and and integrity in our dealings with all our notice that management, colleagues household productsindustry.
stakeholders in the active pursuit of orassociated parties fall below our ourCSR Doing Good Business values.
All Speak Up calls We are a global organisation with a global are immediately followed up by Group supply base and operate in some countries Communicating our ethical standards Internal Audit.
The global programme is where the regulatory authorities, as part Our Doing Good Business ethics are recommunicated to our teams on a regular of the burden of proof for consumer embedded throughout the business basis ensuring employees understand how safety, still demand testing on animals and we continue to inform and educate to voice concerns.
or to use ingredients which have been our employees, suppliers and business tested on animals.
Therefore, we cannot partners around our CSR values through the Animal testing guarantee that in the past or even more continuous development of comprehensive We are against animal testing of any recently for use in other sectors such as policies and learning materials.
form in the development or marketing of medicines or pharmaceuticals that some 1 cosmetic and household products.
Wedo of our ingredients have not been tested Supplier selection not test ingredients on animals, nor do we onanimals.
We enjoy working with like-minded commission or request any of our suppliers suppliers and contractors who are diligent, or associates to test ingredients, or At present our operations in those responsible, honest and fair and we products on animals.
countries are limited and to date we have expect them to mirror our high ethical not been required to test any products on standards.
We scrutinise how our suppliers We fully support the stance taken by animals.
Wherever possible, we work with and contractors work when establishing governing bodies, such as the European our suppliers to source ingredients which or continuing business relationships.
Union, which now prohibit animal testing have not been tested onanimals.
We have developed robust procedures of cosmetic products and ingredients to govern how suppliers are selected, andsoon for household products and the If or when required by law, we will work our engagement with them and how moves being made in this direction by other with the authorities, through our Product wemonitor and conductaudits.
regulatory environments, such as China Development and Regulatory Affairs andIndia.
teams, to find solutions to avoid the need Anti-bribery fortesting.
We believe that corruption is unacceptable, We are equally committed to consumer 1 Within PZ Cussons Beauty Division, The Sanctuary and it is not tolerated in any part of PZ safety, the health and safety of our brand operates with a cut-off date of 1998 and Cussons.
Corruption in all its forms is workforce and to the environmental impact does not use ingredients tested on animals for detrimental to society, to customers, of all our operations.
We recognise the cosmetic purposes after this date.
We work closely with need for reliable, fully validated non-animal our external legal advisors and continue testing methods and we have therefore to monitor our compliance with the UK increased our financial contribution to BriberyAct, amongst otherlegislation.
FRAME Fund for the Replacement of 26 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Consumer safety We are aware that as a global Ateach stage of the process we assess: Managing Materials of Concern organisation it is our responsibility to whether products pose any We operate a Materials of Concern list drive positive consumer experiences and immediate health risk during use which formalises our approach to material to continue to meet the performance such as interactions with the hair selection.
We continually review the expectations of the consumers in andskin scientific and regulatory status of all our whichever market we are operating.
the potential longer term impact materials and continue to progress our on consumer health through use programme of actively managing materials Our approach to product safety adopts the of materials with poor or unknown usage.
Where there are reasonable following keyprinciples: safety records grounds for concern on consumer safety We fully comply with all country, regional that products are Fit for Purpose at or environmental impact, we will adopt a or global regulations and guidelines the time of use and have undergone cautionary approach and may restrict or onmaterials usage, manufacturing appropriate stability testing prohibit materials ahead of any legislation andlabelling and manufacturing trials before being put in place.
Wherever possible we adopt a common reachingmarket global standard which means we exceed local regulations in somecountries Packaging safety When making safety assessments we In August 2013 we launched our new consider the products intended use and consumer brand of cooking oil, Mamador, all reasonably foreseeable conditions of and started production of the international use to ensure appropriate pack warnings Devon Kings brand inNigeria.
and safety features, such as child proof closures, are adopted whenneeded Cooking oil is integral to much of Nigerian When concerns are raised about a cuisine but many of the domestic products materials safe use, either related to available are not of good quality and can consumer safety or its impact on the be contaminated and unhygienic.
Our new environment, we adopt a cautious refinery and state of the art packaging approach.
Where we believe there operation provides another opportunity are reasonable scientific grounds to improve food and nutritional standards we take action to remove, restrict or across the country and to improve the replace materials ahead of legislation quality of life of ordinary Nigerians.
beingimposed Consumer safety starts at the product Our hygienically produced cooking oils design stage and continues through are sold in tamper-proof packaging, giving material sourcing and manufacturing consumers confidence that they are getting the safest, freshest and best quality productsavailable.
27 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts We may take the following actions on our In the past year we have initiated action Materials ofConcern: onthefollowing: Substitute  MIT Actively remove the material from This is a preservative material which had all PZ Cussons Group products to an been widely used in the cosmetics industry agreed timeline through a co-ordinated over many years.
Concerns were raised by technicalproject.
the Dermatologist community, mainly in the UK, about the increasing numbers who had Phase out become sensitised to MIT.
This prompted Prohibit use in product development, reduce a European Union review of the safety usage and exit the material through the profile of MIT and a recommendation that innovation cycle a time limit may beset.
MIT is not permitted for use in leave-on cosmetics.
We acted immediately to remove Manage MIT from all leave-on cosmetics within the Where materials are legally allowed and PZCussonsGroup.
the scientific data and opinion of the Regulatory Authorities and Industry bodies Microplastic beads support the safe use of the material, we will These are used as exfoliating agents in continue usage of the material, and manage face and body cleansing products and were the issue through clear communication of reported to be accumulating in the oceans our position both internally and externally and causing the potential for harming to our consumers and otherstakeholders.
Although only used in a limited number of products in our portfolio, we have taken action to remove or replace them with natural alternatives in all PZCussonsproducts.
28 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Health and safety We are committed to developing the In addition to this, the Nigerian business and report corporately, but the intention highest standards of occupational health has engaged with a leading global is also to drive the broader health and and safety and we seek to provide safe consultancy to benchmark and evolve safety improvement plan so that sites can working environments for all of our thecurrent health and safety management internally benchmark and keep track of employees, contractors and visitors and programme to further improve the systems theirprogress.
to ensure compliance with all relevant and awareness across the site teams.
health and safety laws and regulations Thissignificant investment is testimony The business tracks and reports five key at all our places of operation.
toPZCussons innovation and commitment health and safety performance indicators to continuously improve how we do things.
in all operating units: PZ Cussons regards the health and 1 Fatalities at PZ Cussons sites safety of its employees as a fundamental Accredited facilities 2 Lost Time Incidents LTI include all business responsibility and is committed to Over the past year two more of our sites health and safety occurrences which maintaining and improving performance have been accredited as part of an ongoing result in one day or more absence from built on a platform of regular reviews and global programme to standardise our work excluding the day of incident practical actions, sustained through an management systems.
Sites in Greece, UK, 3 LTI per 200,000 hours worked effective management programme which Indonesia and Thailand are now certified in 4 First Aid cases FAC include all health issupported across all oursites.
the internationally recognised Occupational and safety occurrences including LTIs Health and Safety management system which result in the employee being Health and safety is reviewed regularly OHSAS18001.
FAC include cases where by the Group Risk Committee which employees are treated for incidents ensures that any related risks are properly Empowering our people which occur outside of the workplace, identified, assessed and prioritised and that We empower and encourage our employees as any treatment given may enable us appropriate action to mitigate and manage to identify and report hazards or near to reduce the number of employee risk is actioned through our responsible misses and to personally conduct work dayslost business units across the geographies place risk assessments as part of personal 5 FAC per 200,000 hours worked weoperatein.
We employ health and safety specialists in all of our operating units It is with great sadness, that we report that Our business operates across a diverse and health and safety committees with PZ Cussons has experienced two fatalities cultural network in several geographies cross functional and cross hierarchical at two of our Nigerian sites involving third around the globe.
This raises challenges representation exist at allsites.
The accidents in maintaining a common standard and were immediately reported to the relevant approach to health and safety.
To ensure Supporting better health authorities and internal investigations were the business appropriately manages this, we Where appropriate, PZ Cussons provides launched into the causes of the accidents.
have a comprehensive set of internal safety on-site medical facilities and health Improvement actions and learnings have management standards which are based on monitoring programmes for employees, been communicated across the whole of EU legislation and are currently being rolled which has extended to our newest joint the Group and greater attention given out to all sites for them to build their local venture partnership in Nigeria PZ Wilmar.
to ensuring our contractors comply with procedures from, in line with the relevant We continue to build on our traditional our health and safety rules to prevent any local regulatory compliance.
This ensures programmes, which focus on workplace recurrence.
The Company has conveyed the business has a consistent standard behaviours, coupled with helping its deepest condolences to the families which incorporates the local requirements employees understand any personal ofthedeceased.
so it can be embeddedeffectively.
PZ Cussons is very committed to preventing Health and safety heads up our balanced Reporting performance in health similar incidents happening and our Supply Chain Manufacturing Strategy andsafety increased management focus, extending Safety, Quality, Delivery, Moral, Cost.
PZ Cussons currently reports on a number to third parties, is the proven way to PZCussons is committed to fully embedding of elements to provide a 360 degree picture eliminate such incidents in the future.
good health and safety practices into of good health and safety performance Weare continuing in earnest our drive and our everyday operations.
Each business that can quickly highlight any issues which focus to achieve this through the various unit, under a continuous improvement may need escalating.
We are currently programmes which have alreadystarted.
agenda, has embarked on a programme to installing a common system across the continually evolve this balanced strategy business to standardise this approach and has stretching health and safety targets andensure accurate statistics.
The benefit to ensure drive andprogress.
of this is not only to track performance 29 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Summary statistics % reduction % reduction increase from from 2010 11 2012 13 report i. e. 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 baseline year-on-year Fatalities 1 2 N A 100% LTI absolute number 48 33 26 24 50% 8% LTI frequency rate 0.51 0.41 0.33 0.33 35% 0% FAC absolute number 225 167 163 111 51% 32% FAC frequency rate 2.37 2.04 2.04 1.53 35% 25% 30 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Our employees We value and celebrate the diversity of Developing PZ Cussons talent every member of our team.
PZ Cussons As a major employer within emerging is committed to a culture where all economies, we have developed training employees are treated with respect programmes bespoke to each country, and have the right to expect that reflecting different cultures and values.
their dignity will be fully respected Learning is often on the job and managers intheworkplace.
are active teachers and coaches.
Were also able to benefit from sharing good practise License to Win We are committed to creating an and learning between our territories.
The PZ way of selling environment in which all employees have People with CAN DO values who can the opportunity to reach their full potential As we move towards a new Group structure, compete and win in the marketplaces where and where everyone has a voice, regardless we regularly discuss our critical roles we operate are one of our most important of role, seniority orgeography.
and potential successors that will build a assets.
To enhance these skills, PZ Cussons sustainable organisation for the future.
has invested in the creation of a Centre of Performance management A number of priority training projects Commercial Excellence with experts in each Managing performance at PZ Cussons is were initiated during the year.
Its primary objective is to design an important part of our everyday way of regional leadership teams in Africa and and deliver a state of the art commercial working.
It is based on overall contribution Asia participated in team effectiveness capability curriculum addressing current towards our business objectives aligned to workshops.
In Nigeria, over 400 managers and potential capability needs across team, function, operating unit and global attended soft skills and behaviour theorganisation.
business strategy, with behaviours assessed workshops whilst general managers against key competencies.
Together, took part in a master-class focussed The new bespoke PZ Cussons curriculum, these provide a rating which is linked to on strategic thinking and execution.
which covers multiple levels in the our reward, global talent and succession Following a skills review, our Asia and commercial function, is called License to planning activity.
Europe Supply Chain teams developed a Win and is equipped with best practices, technical skills framework that will increase tools, coaching, follow up and an We regularly assess our talent and create capability within engineering, planning and accreditation system.
development plans that emphasise on the scheduling and continuous improvement.
job learning including project assignments The Supply Chain leadership team in and secondments.
This approach enables us Africa also had the opportunity to hone to offer challenging and exciting careers to its skills by participating in a leadership develop high potential individuals.
31 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusion PZ Cussons is an extremely diverse organisation in terms of its ethnic and cultural make-up and this is something that We also value diversity in respect of gender andage: we continue to promote.
We employ many 2013 2014 different nationalities including Indian, Number % Number % Chinese, Polish, Indonesian, Singaporean, Women employees 1,899 31 1,676 29 Thai, Greek, Australian, Nigerian, Ghanaian, Women senior managers 86 31 91 32 Kenyan, American, and British.
We are Women Group Board Directors 2 20 3 27 clear that we want our leadership team to Employees with over 15 years service 1,286 21 1,156 20 reflect the diversity of the markets in which Employees over 50 429 7 520 9 we function and for that reason we are focussed on developing local talent who understand different cultures.
For example, this last year we appointed a Ghanaian MD in our Ghanabusiness.
We do not employ any person below the local legal working age and we will not, inany circumstances, employ anyone belowthe age of 16.
Human rights As a responsible Company we comply with all employment related legislation and take every reasonable step to ensure that everyones rights are both respected and protected within the working environment and in outside situations linked to the working relationship.
32 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Local community andcharity PZ Cussons community Potable water and school development PZ Cussons in the UK has supported We are a business which recognises our The Foundations Potable Water and School theSeashell Trust for a number of years social responsibilities, proactively working Development project completed new working on a variety of projects, including with the local communities and charities initiatives within communities located in a world-leading innovation project, which is where we operate to make a real difference.
Nigerias Gombe State and Asaba Delta researching the use of specifically created We encourage our employees across the State capital.
Here, despite the challenging scents to help enhance and extend the globe to get involved and to date they have locations, we commissioned bore holes and communication skills of multi-sensory demonstrated a continued commitment donated classrooms to proactively impact impaired young people with severe learning to helping us to deliver projects, raise on social health and the education sector difficulties, enabling them to make choices funds and make life changing contributions inthese twoareas.
Schools and youth centre development This year our Manchester head office site PZ Cussons Nigeria Foundation Our partnership with the Jigawa State offered a work experience placement to The PZ Cussons Nigeria Foundation College of Education JSCOE in Nigeria has a student who helped pick and collate has been helping the local Nigerian gone from strength to strength.
Over the product orders in our staff shop.
The work communities to improve education, health, past year we helped set up an ICT teaching experience has enabled the student to build potable water and infrastructure since unit for the college to provide training on a number of his existing skills for future 2007.
So far over 45 projects in 31 locations and workshops for staff and students.
have been successfully completed or are in school has an impressive 6,000 students progress, including the following projects spread over 24 academic departments.
PZ Cussons has provided the skills and Enhancing the lives of our consumers each know-how to assist the college to manage and every day forms part of our vision, with PZ Cussons chemistry challenge its data, developing IT and administrative a special focus on the health and wellbeing Since its launch last year, PZ Cussons skills, networking and learning systems of our consumers and the communities Chemistry Challenge in Nigeria continues to provide modern online teaching and where we operate.
Health and wellbeing to develop the science IQ of secondary learning resources, as well as digitalising initiativesinclude: school students aged between 1316-yearsits student registration and information Each year our Carex teams play an old and to educate them to the benefits managementprocesses.
active part in hosting activities to and global value of science.
Schools are support Global Hand Washing Day invited to sign up and take part in a variety This year the Foundation has also been which takes place on 15October every of activities and competitions designed building on its successful opening of the year.
This is a global public-private to stimulate interest and excitement in school administration blocks in Ibadan, partnership to foster and support a the world of chemistry and its practical withthe completion of a new project for global culture of hand washing with soap application, with the aim of awarding the Queens School inIlorin.
and clean water, raising awareness of science scholarshipgrants.
the health benefits of hygiene.
The UK The Seashell Trust Carex team has helped over 1.4 million In October, the Chemistry Challenge The Seashell Trust in Manchester, UK, is children learn about hand washing over awarded its first scholarship grant.
dedicated to supporting children and adults the last five years through the Hands Up who have complex and severe learning for Hygiene Education Programme which disabilities, including little or no language provides resources, linked to the UK abilities within a happy and creative schools curriculum and are particularly environment.
For some of its students suitable for supporting aspects of this includes progression into supported Personal, Social and Health Education employment and both the school and PSHE andScience.
college have progressive and inclusive workexperience programmes inplace.
33 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts In Poland, our Carex Clean Hands in the Pathumthani community donating their landmark year, our financial support Academy has grown and in October products for babies and children during will include funding a new research project 2013 we had over 1,600 schools and their hygiene education roadshows.
that we hope will complement the charitys 50,000 pupils and parents taking track-record of breakthrough pieces of part in the educational programme Wellbeing research relevant to the millions of women which included, new digital activities, The Sanctuary Spa brand continues we touch through our bath, skincare, body demonstrations, lesson plans, togenerate funds and raise awareness and giftingproducts.
educational material, competitions and to benefit the communities in which we sampling centred around hand hygiene.
Wellbeing of Women is a charity PZ Cussons Mum & Me also works with Our hand washing initiatives have now celebrating its 50th birthday this year Wellbeing of Women in partnership with been recommended by the Childrens and is dedicated to improving the health the Royal College of Midwives to fund a Memorial HealthInstitute.
of women and babies, funding medical new research fellowship, which will provide Our Thailand Carex team also hosted a research and training grants that will financial support of 60,000 to enable Hand Washing Day, educating hundreds further advancements in treatments and a midwife to undertake PHD research of primary school children close to the outcomes for tomorrow.
Pathumthani soap factory to understand bring together our Sanctuary Spa brand, through song and demonstrations the employees and consumers to make a correct way to wash hands.
The Thailand difference in the priority areas of womens Cussons Baby brand team equally had a health and education through the work that busy year visiting 80 schools and charities Wellbeing of Women do.
In celebration of 34 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Local community andcharity continued Community In PZ Cussons Australia we successfully Our employees are passionate about the joined forces with Sports Without community and, with our support, help Borders, anot-for-profit organisation drive our community programmes by which has a network of 55,000 getting behind charities and community community and sporting organisations initiatives that matter most to them.
helping young people from new and Justafew examplesare: emerging communities integrate Since 2003 our employees have been intoAustralia through sport.
sharing the tradition of Christmas In May we supported the charitys by sending wrapped festive gifts to Winor lose its how you play the game children living in a Pasym orphanage themed conference and gave 12 Royal in the Mazuria Lake District of Poland.
Melbourne Institute of Technology Many employees find the initiative students studying a Masters in Sports very rewarding and proudly display the Technology the opportunity to attend handmade Christmas cards they receive and gain valuable insight.
We are looking from the children on their desks.
forward to growing and enhancing our For the first time, PZ Cussons employees support for Sports Without Borders from Manchester shared their mentoring inthe comingyear.
skills and got involved in the Mosaic The PZ Cussons Nigeria Electricals Enterprise competition by mentoring division has launched a micro-financing students from Salford City Academy scheme to help small and medium in 2013 and helping them to become enterprises buy its products tostart-up runners-up in the regional finals.
The or grow their businesses.
In Nigeria, over mentoring helped students to understand 95% of small independent businesses the importance of ethical business and have no formal access to banks or sustainability whilst teaching them key finance to acquire equipment.
The business principles on how to run a new scheme gives these businesses an successful, profitable business.
opportunity to buy Haier-Thermocool Supporting local people affected by freezers, refrigerators and TEC heavy flooding in Tangerang, Indonesia, generators, as well as offering access to saw employees from our supply chain necessary support and advice to run and team roll up their sleeves and provide sustain profitable businesses.
It is being products to local families to support run in partnership with selected micro hygiene and help prevent infection.
finance banks and is designed to help Childeducation was a large focus area small to medium businesses in the food for PZ Cussons Indonesia activities, and beverage, ice-making and related helping with handwashing, teeth sectors, toaccess capitalequipment.
