Name: Brendon Purnell Role: Senior Fibre Optics Engineer Our OptaSense bespoke fibre sensing business continues to reach new markets and customers with its remarkable acoustic sensing solutions.
The first year of trading outside an exclusivity contract with Shell saw OptaSense move from a single downhole oil and gas client to contracts with seven international oil companies.
Two contracts are notable strategic milestones in creating a truly robust and scalable business geared for continued growth.
Our relationship with Shell has continued, with a new contract to waterproof OptaSense for sub-sea operations: this industry vote of confidence underlines the fact that our technology is now proven onshore.
In another world-first we agreed the industrys first contract for multi-well 4D distributed vertical seismic profiling with Petroleum Development Oman, covering up to 12 wells simultaneously and helping improve safety, reduce costs and increase yields.
This five-year deal means assured revenues for the business.
People Who Know How STRENGTH THROUGH OUR PEOPLE 14 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: strategy Directors report Financial statements Additional information Name: Daniel Yong Role: Ordnance Engineer Were on our way is how QinetiQ Australia employees feel right now.
A business on the move is how our customers and industry partners have described the business, which has continued its turnaround in a challenging market with a second year of sustainable growth: the product of customer confidence and employee optimism.
Importantly, the business has broken the mould of defence contracting for advisory services with two three-year multimillion-dollar partnership contracts for Airworthiness and Munitions advice, plus new military maritime contracts.
Plans to further accelerate growth include moving into adjacent markets such as exploring Asia Pacific opportunities.
Alan Woolford, CEO QinetiQ Australia: Im proud of our remarkable team, in particular how weve strengthened the QinetiQ brand at the heart of Australian government and defence while becoming an employer of choice.
Theres a real buzz around the business.
15 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Name: Alex Slater Role: Weapons Apprentice We want to attract and retain the best talent: our unfair share of great people.
But QinetiQs approach runs deeper.
Our goal is to inspire a generation and initiatives like The 5% Club are designed to give young people fresh opportunities, challenge the status quo and drive innovation.
Our attitude building greater pride in who we are and what we do makes sense for our current and future employees, customers and local communities.
We want people to be here for a career, not just a job.
In practical terms, this means investing in people and looking to the long term: networking with other employers, recognising technical excellence, launching an Employee Referral Scheme, and creating new Career Development Frameworks so people can go further, faster.
And the minute people join us, a new Induction and Onboarding programme is setting the tone and giving joiners confidence that they made the right decision.
16 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: strategy Name: Ross Sproule and Directors report Sheena MacDonald Financial statements Role: Mechanical Technicians Additional information As testament to our increasing ability to bid competitively in open markets, QinetiQs Maritime business recently won a 5.3m, five-year contract to deploy and maintain the Royal Navys underwater mobile acoustic targets.
These targets support submarine crew certification and platform readiness at the British Underwater Test & Evaluation Centre BUTEC, Kyle of Lochalsh a Maritime range QinetiQ operates on behalf of the MOD through the LongTerm Partnering Agreement LTPA.
Up against one of the countrys major providers as the incumbent, the competition was tough: however, our value-formoney approach allowing the customer to do more for less money alongside the knowledge and expertise of our people, won through for us.
Already providing a large proportion of services at BUTEC, for which we recently scored feedback scores of 10 10, this new contract sees us providing a one-stop-shop service.
One of our core beliefs that delighted customers underpin market share growth has again borne fruit.
17 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
