Corporate responsibility and sustainability review COMMITTED TO EMBEDDING A SUSTAINABLE APPROACH We recognise that our prized possession is trust and welcome the value our customers, employees and shareholders place on QinetiQ being a responsible business.
Leo Quinn, Chief Executive Officer Best practice in CR is evolving and to ensure that as Key highlights we continuously improve, we regularly introduce Launch of The 5% Club new programmes and initiatives.
Introduction of a diversity policy Business ethics The Group Code of Conduct updated July 2013 Reporting Group greenhouse gas emissions underpins how we do business.
Its purpose is to clearly MOD conservation award articulate our ethical standards and provide employees with a guide to what is expected of them in their Managing corporate responsibility behaviour and business activities.
It provides information on how they can get help and also guidance on their Strong governance underpins responsible business responsibility to report if they identify a problem.
practice and the Group has Board and executive level Employees are advised to talk to their manager first Commitment to corporate responsibility through the but we also provide ethics email advice services and Group Risk & CSR Committee page 66 of this report.
The whistleblowing line is The Committee meets regularly and receives reports and independently run and provides a confidential 24 7 briefings on all material CR issues including business ethics, service.
We respond to a number of queries through the environment, health and safety, diversity and human ethics advice services each year and all communication rights.
In the US, the Proxy Board oversees these activities, through the whistleblowing line is investigated.
Annual obtaining independent assurance on the adequacy of its business ethics training is mandatory for all employees compliance programmes on an ongoing basis.
across the Group and for the Board.
It covers a range The Groups policies and management systems underpin of issues including anti-bribery.
We also provide more our CR programmes.
In the UK, the business assurance in-depth anti-bribery training for those in higher risk tool provides internal assurance and we have the roles, for example those who carry out overseas business.
external certification ISO 14001 for our environmental Anti-bribery risk management is embedded in our management system, ISO 9001 for our quality business processes: we have a robust process for management system and OHSAS 18001 for our health undertaking due diligence, monitoring and audit of our and safety management system.
In the UK we have a use of commercial intermediaries, and we use expert Sustainable Procurement Code and we take a number of third-party providers of due diligence, where appropriate.
steps to ensure that we buy responsibly and sustainably.
Our anti-bribery programmes are overseen by our Chief Similarly in the US, the business has policies and Ethics Officers who are senior executives.
We adopt a programmes in place to ensure compliance with US zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
federal labour, health and safety, environmental and Human rights other laws and regulations.
Our US business is ISO QinetiQ recognises that the UN Guiding Principles on 9001:2008 and ISO 9001:AS9100 certified at three Business and Human Rights set a standard of conduct key sites.
QinetiQs commercial success depends on expected of companies.
We seek to anticipate, prevent our ability to conduct business in overseas territories, and mitigate potential negative human rights impacts transacting with foreign governments and commercial through our policy and process, and through our Code organisations in a legally compliant manner, controlling of Conduct and business ethics training for employees, the international movement of certain strategic items.
all of which underpin our commitment to ethical business Our CR strategy reflects the material issues for our conduct.
QinetiQ has policies in place to support meeting business defined by our stakeholder priorities.
We internationally recognised human rights principles, including ensure that we understand these priorities through adherence to export controls, health and safety, nonregular dialogue such as investor meetings, involvement discrimination, anti-bribery and environmental issues.
in the MOD-industry Sustainable Procurement Working This is further supported by our procedures on product Group and employee engagement programmes.
safety, sustainable procurement, due diligence and risk 36 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: performance Directors report Financial statements Additional information management which are described in more detail for Life programme we will be using a Safety Culture elsewhere in this Corporate responsibility and sustainability Climate Survey score as a safety performance Review.
We monitor the application of these policies and indicator from 2015. procedures through our business assurance processes.
There were no prosecutions or prohibition notices issued We are presently reviewing the benefits of this embedded by regulators in the UK in 2014.
A single improvement approach, as compared with the implementation of a notice was issued to the Company following the UK specific human rights policy.
We will also be looking at best Health and Safety Executives investigation of an incident practice in tracking how human rights issues are addressed at one of the sites we manage on behalf of the MOD.
Although the incident was relatively minor in nature and did not result in any injuries, several improvement Employees actions were identified relating to the risk assessment process and training of employees.
These actions have 2014 highlights and 2015 priorities all been completed, the Improvement Notice formally 2014 highlights closed and lessons shared across the organisation.
Launch of The 5% Club Safe for Life represents a logical progression of our Introduction of a diversity policy safety strategy, incorporating existing activity focused on safety leadership, human factors, error management Launch of Safe for Life in the UK and behavioural safety.
It provides a single framework to deploy flexible resources, systems and tools at a business 2015 priorities and operational site level to address local safety culture, Continue to improve our diversity programme and is underpinned by an objective safety assurance review and Safety Culture Climate Survey.
This programme Introduce a UK Safety Culture Climate is currently being piloted in our Weapons business with Survey score plans for wider roll-out across the UK.
Continuing reduction in Lost Time Incident Rate In our US business, focus continues to be on empowering 5% of UK workforce to be on apprenticeship employees to operate safely through provision of further or graduate programmes by March 2015 specialist training.
Lost Time Incident Rate 2012 2013 2014 QinetiQ Group excluding US 5.53 5.36 4.29 Our employees US business 1.12 1.45 1.37 Safety, health and wellbeing Total 3.55 3.70 3.39 QinetiQ recognises that the safety, health and wellbeing of our people are intrinsically linked to our strategic Our health and wellbeing programmes in both the success.
We continue to focus on reducing accidents UK and US continue to develop.
The UK Wellbeing and work-related ill health as part of our continuous programme and QinetiQ Benefits scheme in the improvement activity.
UK are offering more services, with increasing uptake The UK RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and by employees.
Free flu jabs and health assessments Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 rate rose measuring BMI, blood pressure and cholesterol are from 1.90 in 2014 to 2.74, missing our 2013 objective proving particularly popular.
The Vitality Wellness of reducing reportable UK incidents.
However, this Program has been running in our US business for over remains well below the Health and Safety Executives three years, as part of the existing Health in Motion all industries average of 3.11 per 1,000 employees.
It supports employees and their spouses, and Within these reportable accidents, severity of injuries benefits include reduced health insurance premiums, has reduced and our RIDDOR rate is down overall in the prizes for attaining point levels and discounts on health last four years, from 5.35 to 2.74.
Given the relatively clubs and equipment.
low number of reportable incidents, a small change in Safety of products absolute numbers can significantly impact annual rates.
Delivering products and services safely fundamentally Taking this and our increasing international presence into underpins our offering to customers.
We invest in consideration, QinetiQ has decided to change focus from attracting and developing our engineers and scientists UK RIDDOR rate to an overall Lost Time Incident Rate with specialist safety expertise.
In the UK, technical see non-financial KPIs on page 19 which provides assurance and Independent Design Review have been a relevant lagging indicator for the Group.
We also fully integrated into our day-to-day business delivery recognise the need to incorporate leading indicators processes.
Improvements continue to be driven by into our annual reporting.
As part of our new UK Safe 37 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued our Engineering, Science and Technical Leadership The breakdown of the number of employees by gender Team, supported by independent assurance activity.
at the end of March 2014 is shown in the table below: In addition to maintaining and developing its design Female Male Level and maintenance accreditations for safety-critical work, Board Directors 2 6 QinetiQ actively supports collaborative working with the MOD and other industry organisations to develop and Senior managers 38 231 implement common safety standards and practices.
All employees 1,998 6,939 Our US business continues to use technical excellence to improve the safety and usability of their products.
Learning and development We deliver business-focused learning and development, Employee engagement to enhance individual and team performance to deliver We seek to utilise a range of communication channels results and achieve our strategic goals.
to engage with employees in respect of factors affecting the performance of the Group.
An independent annual In the UK, professional development begins during employee engagement survey for EMEA employees had an employees First 100 Days programme, including a response rate of 73% and recorded a 3% increase in induction, workshops, online learning and knowledge Employee Engagement compared with 2013 see page acquisition.
Tailored learning personal and role specific 19.
Action planning is taking place at a business unit continues for all employees, including mandatory level to build on successes and address priority areas training such as health and safety, and business ethics.
The UK Employee Engagement Career development can be technical or managerial, with Group EEG comprises 42 representatives elected some employees combining both.
Our UK engineering, by employees covering both local and national level science and technical communities now have a clear to improve engagement and act as a consultative Career Development Framework reflecting an everbody on developments within the Company.
Development packages have is entering its third year and continues to play an active been enhanced in 2014 for line managers and business role in monitoring and providing feedback on employees leaders, including the launch of the QinetiQ Manager views on topics such as pensions, employee wellbeing Programme.
Our graduate programme has been and engagement.
In our US business we engage with maturing through 2014 and will result in an all-new employees through a range of channels such as town offering in 2015.
We also continue to grow the number halls and employee focus groups.
We also use various of apprenticeships we offer.
In 2015, the UK Performance channels, including the intranet, management briefings Management process will be updated and we will and widespread training programmes to involve provide a Career Development Framework for each employees in the running of the business.
Diversity and inclusion In the US, the employee performance appraisal process In the US, we have a Diversity Recruiting Strategy has been enhanced to improve employee ownership of which was introduced during 2013 to focus on the career development, planning by supervisors and to recruitment of under-represented groups.
A Group-wide better align employee development with our US business equality, diversity and inclusion policy was introduced objectives.
Employees are supported in the attainment during 2014.
We have become core members of the of professional and technical certifications and degrees.
Employers Network for Equality and Inclusion ENEI Our US business is an ITIL Information Technology which promotes diversity and inclusion in employment.
Infrastructure Library Foundation Certification Training We are committed to the fair treatment of people with provider, with two certified instructors.
US employee disabilities in relation to applications, training, promotion service and accomplishments are recognised through and career development.
If an existing employee becomes a variety of bonus programmes.
disabled, the Groups policy is to provide continuing employment and training, wherever practicable.
We have Two Ticks accreditation in the UK a commitment to employing disabled people.
38 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: performance Directors report Financial statements Additional information The 5% Club Investing in a generation The 5% Club was launched in October 2013.
Spearheaded by QinetiQ and supported by five founding members, this industry-led campaign aims to transform the fortunes of young people in the UK.
This initiative already has the support of 32 companies, large and small, from a range of sectors, including engineering, construction, defence, retail, law and IT.
Developing our young people is both a business and a social imperative.
It is good for the economy, as skills enhancement leads to innovation, innovation leads to growth, and growth leads to prosperity.
We believe what gets measured gets done, so The 5% Club involves formalising what an organisation does in terms of apprentice and graduate programmes and making the public commitment that these will comprise 5% of the UK workforce within the next five years.
At QinetiQ we have set this UK goal by March 2015 our current figure is shown below.
A People Network has been set up to ensure Name: Chris Clinton [far right] that the achievement of this target is sustainable and the Role: Cyber Security Consultant first meeting was held in March 2014.
The 5% Club Number Number of apprentices 121 Number of graduates 106 Number of sponsored students 17 Percentage of UK workforce 4.78% Our communities QinetiQ is committed to being a good neighbour in the communities in which we operate.
One way in which employees contribute to this is by volunteering their time and professional skills, such as via the UK Employee Volunteering Scheme.
Our flagship initiative is our STEM outreach programme with the aim of inspiring the next A graduate in electronic engineering and computer sciences who joined generation of scientists and engineers.
QinetiQ STEM QinetiQ in 2011, cyber security consultant Chris Clinton is passionate about Ambassadors have organised STEM events for school his job and his extra workload as a Technical Lead for Cyber Security children such as the annual powerboat and roboChallenge UK.
With the threat landscape growing and only one-fifth of olympics challenges, and have hosted Cyber Security attacks reported, the not-for-profit challenge seeks to address the serious Challenge UK.
We are delighted that one of our STEM shortfall in cyber defence professionals: Ambassadors, Lauren Hill, won the accolade of Most Theres a huge shortage of expertise, and of young people coming into Inspirational Apprentice at STEMNETs national Annual the industry, yet the threat is massive and growing, Chris says.
Our non-STEM employees also use their skills why initiatives like The 5% Club and the Challenge are vital, to promote through programmes such as Young Enterprise.
The science and engineering, and energise people to get involved.
We can giving something back score in our 2014 employee help government, military and businesses globally to understand that cyber survey rose by 3% compared with 2013, indicating that security isnt an overhead its actually a business enabler.
We have an employees recognise and value the continued focus on amazing capability at QinetiQ, with cyber securitys leading minds ready community programmes.
and able to help people counter attacks.
In the US we support educational enrichment through the National Guard Youth Foundation, World Affairs Council, Naval Historical Foundation and various robotics education programmes.
There is also a particular focus on supporting wounded military and their families by contributions to a range of specialist organisations.
39 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued This year we created a new UK Volunteer of the Year Our environmental impact award, presented at our leadership conference, which Environmental stewardship recognised the achievement of an employee who has QinetiQ is committed to strong, effective and innovative made an outstanding contribution in the community environmental management.
The UK Environmental through the Employee Volunteering Scheme.
Management System is certified to ISO 14001 and QinetiQ in the UK continues to support three corporate applies to our own estate and the sites we manage charities voted for by employees Cancer Research UK, on behalf of the MOD.
We are also reinforcing our Help for Heroes and RNLI by providing matched funding management review arrangements.
We recruited a for any employee fundraising activities.
Employees can dedicated Energy Manager to strengthen our specialist also choose to give to their chosen charity pre-tax team with responsibility to develop strategy, provide through payroll giving.
clear direction and drive improvement programmes.
We have delivered further reductions in the proportion Environment of waste-to-landfill and established partnerships with key service providers, from utilities to waste.
2014 highlights and 2015 priorities We have also delivered initiatives to deal with the 2014 highlights specific, complex challenges associated with our work Launched Energy Matters in the UK and footprint.
These have included: the development MOD Silver Otter conservation award of our Sustainability Appraisal processes and training: holding a Climate Change Workshop, with MOD, enabling the identification of potential impacts and priorities: and 2015 priorities enhanced conservation and sustainability programmes Reduce greenhouse gas emissions due to UK on many sites.
energy use by 17% by 2020 from a baseline Many of the MOD sites contain designated conservation of 2013 areas of national and international importance, such Consolidate the proportion of UK waste going as Cardigan Bay, a Special Area of Conservation, to landfill at less than 10% situated next to the MOD Aberporth site.
As a result, Set a number of UK site-specific targets to Sustainability Appraisals are regularly carried out to reduce current waste-to-landfill levels identify and mitigate any impact to the flora and fauna before we undertake our delivery of test, evaluation and Promote prevention of UK waste via enhanced training support services.
In 2014 we won the MODs re-use of assets Silver Otter conservation award for our work at MOD Aberporth see case study on page 41.
We also manage Eelmore Marsh, a Site of Special Scientific Interest at our Head Office in Farnborough.
Through our partnership with Marwell Wildlife and the long-term commitment to restoration of this lowland heath system, Natural England has now classed all three of the habitat units at Eelmore Marsh as favourable condition status.
Greenhouse gas emissions We have continued our focus on reducing our carbon footprint: we again submitted voluntarily to the CDP Climate Change Programme scoring 73 and Band C and we are registered for the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC scheme.
As part of our annual UK Environment Week, we launched a major new campaign called Energy Matters.
The aim is to encourage everyone to get involved in reducing our energy usage.
A network of Energy Champions supports the business in identifying areas where energy consumption could be reduced.
40 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: performance Directors report Financial statements Additional information Energy Matters has resulted in a reinvigorated Name: Martin Pope programme with improvements in data quality and Role: Weapons Engineer our ability to prioritise, so we have decided to re-set our target to focus on carbon emissions from energy use gas, oil and electricity associated with buildings and our operations in the UK.
Our new target is to reduce these emissions by 17% by 2020 from a baseline of 2013, where our emissions were 51,976 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e. Our emissions due to energy use 2 in 2014 were 49,368 tCO e a reduction of 5%.
2 We have put in place the process to capture and report our greenhouse gas GHG emissions across the Group to reflect the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The GHG emissions statement below provides a summary of the Groups emissions from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014, giving a summary of Scope 1 fuel Paul Rowley, QinetiQ Trials Safety Manager at the MOD Aberporth coastal combustion and operation of facilities and Scope 2 range in Wales, instigated and championed an award-winning conservation purchased electricity emissions and an intensity project to protect bottlenose dolphins from sea trials.
Passive Acoustic ratio per m of revenue.
We have adopted a financial Monitoring PAM provides the tools to give additional protection for marine control approach and have used the UK Governments mammals.
I conducted a study and recognised certain activities posed a Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013 and greater risk, requiring a focused solution.
This was an opportunity to not Defra reporting guidance October 2013. only protect wildlife but also expand our business, conducting test and evaluation activities that were previously thought too risky to marine life.
Year end 31 March Paul persuaded senior managers to support the project, eventually gaining Group GHG emissions 2014 support from a customer project.
Engineer Martin Pope made PAM a reality: Total Scope 1 emissions tCO e 26,042 Ive always been considered a good ideas person, and my formal training 2 in electronics, oceanography, biology and sustainability helped.
I believe in Total Scope 2 emissions tCO e 37,613 2 minimising risk to the marine environment, and PAM shows QinetiQ takes Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO e 63,655 2 environmental issues seriously.
PAM received the MODs Sanctuary Intensity ratio tCO e per m of revenue 53.4 2 Environmental Award and prestigious Silver Otter conservation award.
UK waste management Robust capture and effective reporting of data is an ongoing priority, enabling our improvement programmes to be targeted.
Our aim in 2014 was to encourage reduction in waste, increase re-use of assets, and enhance segregation of waste streams.
Overall waste levels increased compared with last year 5,626 tonnes, including 112 tonnes of hazardous waste, compared with 4,904 tonnes in 2013 due to significant site clearance, and development work, but the proportion of UK waste going directly to landfill ran at less than 10%, reflecting our focus to promote effective segregation and recycling.
Our aim for 2015 is to consolidate the proportion going to landfill at less than 10% and to set a number of site-specific targets to reduce current waste-to-landfill levels.
We also plan to promote prevention of waste by improving the re-use of assets.
41 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
