With the majority of The mines upgrade of access roads connecting it to construction activities neighbouring towns and supply routes has enabled the Human resources ending during the year community to improve trade.
This development is evident and industrial and contractors in the growth around the mine and the establishment of fuel relations demobilising, there filling stations, telecommunication companies, banks, retail, was a corresponding decrease in labour with 4 744 accommodation and service businesses.
contractor and permanent employees remaining at year end.
This reduction will continue, eventually stabilising during Various other local economic development initiatives such 2015. as the Peace Jobs Programme which makes use of local contractors to do stone pitching, housekeeping, bush The employee ratios are in line with Randgolds policy clearing and other mine-related work have also contributed of recruitment prioritisation, sourcing primarily from to local economic development.
local villages, then regionally followed by nationally and lastly looking for candidates outside the country.
84% of An important part of Kibalis employees are Congolese nationals and the intention is to local economic development in Agribusiness continue localising the labour force during 2015.
2014 was the support of agribusiness initiatives, enabling local farmers to generate As construction and commissioning of the processing and additional revenue.
2015 will see more local economic power generation facilities were completed, the mines development initiatives.
operational team was established and key positions were filled during the year.
These included the plant, engineering, Planning for a palm oil project is at an advanced stage supply chain and financial managers as well as a general with potential funders and partners expressing interest.
The current prefeasibility study will now be upgraded to Constructive labour relations were maintained directly and a bankable feasibility study under the guidance of the with the union, without any industrial action taking place proposed operator and lead shareholder.
Agreement was reached on the downsizing of the construction workforce which, in many instances, included the transfer of labour between contractors.
During 2014, the Resettlement Action Plan RAP was completed Community with only the final snagging of the Roman Catholic Church complex outstanding.
An additional small RAP, comprising 29 households was also undertaken without issue in relation to the Mofu satellite pit.
More than $70 million was paid to wholly-owned Congolese companies during the year, taking Kibalis total to date to more than $600 million, as part of the mines operations and capital expenditure programmes.
Local economic development was boosted by the enhancement of infrastructure, especially road access routes to the mine.
