Exploration continued to focus on contractor employee who was removing rocks from the extensions to the known deposits, footwall was struck on the head by a stage-jack extension Exploration especially KCD, where that fell down the shaft from an unknown position.
mineralisation has been confirmed down plunge of the current orebody model, while the up plunge continuity of the The Environmental and Social 5000 lode into Durba Hill offers additional open pit ore. Impact Assessment ESIA was Environment updated during 2014 to include On a regional level, the greenfields exploration focus was the additional satellite pits and scope changes to the shifted to the KZ structure which extends over 35km and infrastructure according to IFC performance standards.
It is a line of anomalous gold in soil line with DRC legislation, the environmental management values which are coincident in places with interpreted district plan EMP successfully underwent an annual independent scale structures that may form part of a larger regional scale audit.
The feature runs from Kalimva in the north, through Mengu Hill, Pakaka, KCD, Kibali South, Aindi Watsa and Kibalis environmental management was enhanced through onto Zambula in the south.
the takeover of the operational team in 2014, resulting in a 16% reduction in reported environmental incidents.
Formal More than 22Moz of resources are located along or near to awareness sessions on site, inspections and environmental this feature and more than 50% of the strike length has no training and inductions contributed to the better performance.
data deeper than 50m below surface.
Biodiversity management was also incorporated into the site A detailed summary of the exploration work completed EMPs during the year, with over 1 450 trees successfully during 2014 can be found in the exploration section of this transplanted in the eco-centre and camps.
Fauna annual report on pages 64 to 91. conservation was also enforced following the completion of the exclusion zone fence.
The LTIFR continued to decrease year on Kibali donated over $250 000, as well as JetA-1 fuel, tents Health and safety year from 0.59 in and containers, to African Parks as part of a biodiversity off- 2013 to 0.51 in 2014, following sustained efforts to increase set strategy and an agreement to help combat poaching in safety awareness.
This also included the funding of elephant collaring and pilots for aerial counts and patrols.
Although the labour complement decreased substantially with the completion of most of the construction, there was Further details are provided in the sustainability section of still around 5 000 people working at Kibali during the year, this annual report see page 98. with 11.7 million man hours worked, making the continued improvement in the safety record, from the already low levels Kibali is aiming to achieve ISO 14001 certification by the end of 2013, commendable.
Unfortunately, there was one fatality in the vertical shaft Exploration at Kibali is focused on extensions of the known development.
While blowing over in the shaft bottom, a deposits, especially KCD.
