Protecting and empowering our workforce rd 18% reduction in group LTIFR: 3 consecutive year of improvement.
Unfortunately we experienced one fatality at Kibali gold mine 91% of all employees and contractors are host country nationals 4 out of 5 mines, certified to international OHSAS 18001 safety standard with certification for Kibali planned for 2016 Zero Lost Time Injuries at Tongon and Gounkoto throughout the year New research and training centre created at Kinshasa University, DRC Our business depends on the skill and passion of our workers, so these issues are our top priority Safety Local and national employment Occupational health Staff training and skills transfer Current potential impact on the business It was no surprise that, in our 2013 materiality assessment, safety was selected as the most pressing sustainability issue by both internal and external stakeholders.
It sits alongside the need to maximise local and national employment, the need to develop skills to meet the demands of the organisation and the need to protect workers from occupational hazards as a key set of human capital risks we must manage.
Simply put, our business depends on the skills and passion of our workforce so these issues are our top priority.
We aim to create an engaged and motivated team led by host country nationals and with each individual taking responsibility for delivering our business goals and a safe environment.
We believe that all occupational injuries and fatalities can and should be prevented and we work towards that target.
This section reports in detail about the composition of our workforce, safety management and industrial relations.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 128 Importance to stakeholders TOTAL WORKFORCE GROUP Loulo Gounkoto Morila Tongon Kibali at December  2014 riates als riates als riates als riates als riates als riates als Employees 200 2 569 68 877 7 144 7 295 23 462 95 606 Contractors 869 8 184 133 1 783 28 834 11 967 46 1 208 651 3 392 Combined total 11 822 2 861 1 013 1 280 1 703 4 744 Randgolds mines created At Loulo, expatriate numbers were reduced by 10% and employment for a total of 11 822 the entire management team is now Malian.
In total, nine Our people in 2014 of which 91% senior international employees were replaced by trained workforce were nationals from our host nationals in 2014.
This is a relatively low number but is an indicator that we hope to increase over the medium countries of operation.
term reflecting the time needed to transition skilled senior workers.
The total workforce of 11 822 is a significant contraction from over 15 000 persons in 2013.
This reflects the In terms of gender diversity, Randgold is an equal conclusion of the major construction phase at Kibali.
We have transparent nondiscrimination policies and strive to employ the best Hiring and upskilling host country nationals is central to people at each site, especially from local communities.
Competent We actively encourage women to apply for roles with us, management is arguably the biggest business asset for however attracting women to mining in our countries of any gold mine and by recruiting outstanding candidates operation is particularly difficult for a range of cultural and from host countries and training local people to worldlegislative reasons.
For example, in the DRC there is a class standards, we develop cost effective, accountable law that restricts women from working in jobs classified management that deliver highly productive gold mines.
as heavy duty a category that the majority of our jobs fall into.
Currently about 8% of our total workforce are Our target in this area is to maximise the number of host women with the highest level of female mine employment country nationals in senior roles.
In 2014, it was therefore being at Kibali and Tongon.
an important achievement that 91% of our mining workforce were nationals and that localisation efforts We recognise the limitations we have in attracting women moved forward at mines such as Loulo and Tongon.
to our workforce and this is one of the reasons that we seek to support women in our local communities through We actively encourage women to apply for employment.
a number of other gender focused initiatives, including Currently they comprise 8% of our total workforce.
support for womens associations, developing market gardens for womens groups and encouraging greater participation in education for girls.
Sustainability begins at home and Randgolds primary Safety as our commitment is to the safety of top concern its employees.
We have a wide range of measures in place across all our mines to protect employees in all parts of our operations.
We view safety as a continuous and constant programme of work and every day our employees meet for toolbox morning sessions on safety, engage in regular safety training, check personal protective equipment and are encouraged to speak out should they see any risks not being dealt with appropriately.
We take a preventative approach to safety and use the internationally recognised OSHAS 18001 standard as a framework for our health and safety management.
In Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 129 safety themes and a fast response protocol for when a Lost Time Injury LTI occurs that can include safety stand downs, the issuing of flash reports and detailed analysis by supervisors.
We were pleased to record an 18% reduction in our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR for 2014, reducing the rate for the third year in succession to a historic low.
This is particularly gratifying at a time when the scale and complexity of our operations continues to grow, including reaching the highest level of production in our history.
At group level, LTIs were reduced to 13 this year, a reduction of 35% on 2013, and a decrease of 65% on 2012.
The teams at Tongon and Gounkoto both achieved zero LTIs throughout 2014 and there have been significant improvements at Kibali with a 50% reduction in the Morning sessions on safety take place every day as part of number of LTIs compared to 2013.
We also seek to introduce new technology where it has 2014, all our mines were certified to the OHSAS 18001 been shown to add proven and tangible benefits for standard with the exception of Kibali which will, as a newly the safety of our workforce.
In 2014 we upgraded the ventilation systems to improve temperatures underground.
operational mine, be applying for its accreditation in due course.
Our policy is to combine both the top-down We are, however, sad to report one fatality in 2014, the approach that flows from constant supervision and the tragic loss of Mr Atafo Claude Manabe.
The incident bottom-up approach of asking every individual employee occurred at Kibali where Mr Manabe worked as an to be their brothers keeper ie to take responsibility for assistant driller for one of the sites contractors on the shaft the safety of themselves and those around them.
As is policy at Randgold, we conducted measures include, but are not limited to, the wide use of an in-depth investigation into the cause of this incident, together with the contractor, to prevent a recurrence of signage in multiple languages, the use of rotating monthly GROUP SAFETY PERFORMANCE 2014 2013 2012 2 1 1 Total labour 12 341 15 373 11 990 Person hours 27 583 588 35 246 261 25 327 309 3 LTIs 13 20 38 4 LTIFR 0.47 0.57 1.50 Fatalities 1 1 1 Near misses 189 128 120 1 Restated from last year due to slightly updated recalculation.
2 Including persons employed by our contractors calculated as an average over the year.
3 Defined as injuries that occur in the execution of duties which prevents our workers from performing those duties for at least one day.
4 Number of LTIs per million person hours worked.
Although it may seem slightly counter intuitive, Randgold crashed, particularly at night.
This triggered action on regards this as a positive trend.
This is because in the last fatigue management by the Kibali SHE safety, health and couple of years we have been trying to foster increased environment team.
Even driving six metre high mining awareness and reporting of near misses across the group.
trucks can become wearisome and when the repetition of going back and forth to the pit is considered, it can create Near misses are incidents where no personal injury or dangerous conditions.
property damage was sustained, but given slightly different timing or positioning an injury may have occurred.
At After the reporting of near misses, the Kibali team introduced Randgold the reporting of a near miss triggers remedial measures such as compulsory short breaks every hour and action procedures and this helps prevent accidents.
rotating shift schedules to allow adequate time for recovery Therefore the more near misses we have, the less minor and sleep.
This issue is an ongoing challenge, requiring constant A good example of this came in the main pit at Kibali in vigilance but we were pleased that there was only one injury 2014.
In the early part of the year, several near misses related to driver fatigue at Kibali in late 2014 after these were recorded by truck drivers, who had swerved but not measures were introduced.
a similar incident within the group.
A regional prosecutor of our other mines.
Such informal training continues until a line also undertook an independent investigation concluding manager certifies them to be able to undertake the role to the that the incident was an accident.
We express our sincere required standards themselves.
condolences to Mr Manabes family and friends.
To help develop the leaders of tomorrow, we also invest in We are constantly investing in training to formal training for our most talented employees, including improve the performance of our Investing courses and diplomas at leading international universities.
In employees so that Randgold meets its in training business goals.
2014, a total of 210 employees received formal training at a total investment cost of $543 225.
With such a large number of employees coming from local communities, many of whom had never worked in the sector We strongly believe in nurturing young, local talent in the before, training is central to our working culture.
regions in which we operate.
Randgold employs the top We use psychometric testing to identify local people with the science graduates from several leading universities in West aptitude for skilled positions and then require each worker to Africa and, in 2014, awarded two scholarships to promising learn their position through shadowing a mentor, often on one masters students at the University of Kinshasa.
Randgold has awarded two masters scholarships to promising geology students at the University of Kinshasa, DRC and a further bursary to a student at the University of Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 131 Case study: NEW SKILLS, NEW OPPORTUNITIES Our emphasis on employing local people provides our mines with driven and capable workforce and changes lives.
We asked three of the 5 000 strong workforce at Kibali to tell their story.
Sangbaid Kulindema was born in 1978 in an old clinic which is now the site of the main Kibali pit.
He explains that before the mine, he had been unemployed and pessimistic about his future.
Before Kibali, I was without a job.
I studied to be a nurse but had to stop because I couldnt pay the fees.
I drifted to do some work with my uncle in Sudan, trading, but there was a rebellion so we only made very little money.
Sangbaid joined Randgold in 2010 as a casual worker in the brickyard during construction, before being retrained as an Left to right: Kulimaru Kayazo, Agoyo Adasayi and Sangbadi elution operator.
Kulindema are local villagers who are now part of the permanent workforce at Kibali.
Commenting on his on-the-job training he says: I spent three coming to us.
Also the roads are so much better, it used to months on a Randgold mine in Mali watching what other be very tough to get to Aru, now you can do it in a day.
people did before having an opportunity to do the job myself.
I wasnt nervous the first time I had to do it myself as the Agoyo Adasayi joined Randgold in 2010 when he was 37, trainers were there to help and correct me.
At the end I sat a initially working as a casual worker cutting grass.
At the test and got a certificate.
prompting of his manager he undertook the interview and testing for the operational mine and now works as a core He adds: Its hard not to be sad that the clinic I was born in sampler, having spent three months training at our Tongon doesnt exist anymore, but there is a new and better clinic for mine in Cte dIvoire.
my family now and that makes me happy.
Because of Kibali, I have a job and I think I can learn anything.
Agoyo describes how Kibali has helped create more security in his life: Before I joined Randgold I taught biology at high My children can become better too because I can send school two days a week, and worked in agriculture growing them to school to study and they have more chances.
My cassava, potatoes and rice.
If it was a good year I could children wont go through what I did.
make enough money but in the bad years it was very hard.
Kulimaru Kayazo is 37 and joined Randgold as a casual Working at Kibali I have a stable income, I can plan, I can worker fabricating bricks and as a carpenter during save a little and my children can attend school.
ambition is to become a supervisor on the mine.
He underwent Randgolds psychometric testing to work on He says that the improvements brought by Kibali extend to the mine once it become operational, scoring over 90% and all aspects of the town: The new roads are much better and being trained to become a reagent operator controlling that has brought food prices down, there is a good phone reagent dosing into the plant.
network and we have banks.
He explains: Before joining Randgold, I worked in agriculture, I know my money is safe in the bank.
I dont have to worry as I own a field, with rice, maize and beans.
When the harvest about thieves coming to my house and taking my money.
was good I could produce up to 60 bags of each crop and sell each bag for around 30 000 francs $40.
So in a good year I could earn about the same as I do at Kibali, but the When I grew up this area was blacklisted, there were rebels and the army, lots of fighting.
My children dont have to grow big difference with working at Kibali is that the company also looks after my family.
I receive a family allowance and they up with the worry of war like I did.
I think this mine helps with can also visit the health clinic on site or in Durba.
Because of that they can focus on their studies and do better than me.
They will have more opportunities.
If they Also our world is growing, we never used to see so many want to, I would tell them to get work at the mine because if other people and cultures here so it seems like progress is you work hard you can meet your ambitions.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 132 In 2014, we also created a research and training programme Our strategy of continuous meetings with worker at the University of Kinshasa to provide four geology students representatives, sub-contractor management and all from the university with on-the-job experience at the Kibali stakeholders continued to drive a calm industrial relations mine.
We plan to roll out similar programmes at the Universities climate in 2014. of Lubumbashi, Bukavu and Haut-Ul in the DRC.
In Mali, there were numerous calls from unions in other Our employees are a core sectors in the country for the Mali mines to join them in stakeholder in our business and Industrial sympathy strikes but there was only one occasion when that belief forms the cornerstone of relations they agreed to at Morila, when less than 15% of the our industrial relations policies.
workforce followed the strike for two days.
All employees are free to join unions and our countries of There was also one industrial relations stoppage at operation are strongly unionised with the right to freedom Tongon in the second quarter when our mining subof association enshrined in law.
contractor TOMI experienced a wild-cat five-day strike without warning.
We estimate that approximately 85% of our employees are union members with the remaining 15% set apart In total, 11 days work were lost to strike action over the due to a long term incentive programme we introduced course of the year across the whole group.
This programme effectively moves participating employees into management and out of the Mine Level Agreements MLAs are the basis of our employee side of negotiated work conditions.
These are collective agreements with the unions at each mine.
They are designed to We recognise all groups that legitimately speak for our complement national labour laws and to establish the way workers and meet with union representatives at each each mine operates with regards to detailed items such mine site on a monthly basis: they also attend quarterly as salary increments or acceptable behaviour in a strike board meetings.
There are also other initiatives such as the general managers weekly safety meetings to encourage open MLAs are reviewed every three years, and no MLAs were and constant dialogue.
