Environmental management 4% improvement in energy efficiency rate 75% of process water recycled 3 1 million m less water abstracted from Malis Falm River in 2014 due to water saving measures Nzoro II hydropower plant online in DRC 4 out of 5 mines certified to ISO 14001 standards Creation of community waste management companies 8 250 trees planted across all mines We believe it is in our commercial interests to manage our natural capital to a world-class standard.
Water pollution Cyanide management Waste management Environmental incidents Energy use and efficiency Current potential impact on the business Global trends such as climate change and growing water scarcity continue to raise the profile of environmental issues across the mining sector and this was reflected in our 2013 materiality assessment.
Over a quarter of our priority issues in the assessment were environmental risks including water pollution, energy usage and cyanide management.
We believe firmly that it is in our commercial interests to manage our natural capital to a worldclass standard.
Thats why we work hard to minimise our energy and water use and to carefully manage waste and land, both in our exclusion zones and in the communities around our mines.
The focus of our environmental practices on each mine is defined by the detailed environmental impact assessment that Our policies and we conduct at the feasibility phase of any project.
This sets a performance baseline for our understanding of environmental risks and defines our approach to energy, water, waste and biodiversity management.
Once the mine is operational these findings become the basis of an Environmental Management System EMS that is drawn up in line with ISO 14001, national regulations and local community input.
Ultimately, our aim is to keep our negative environmental impact to a minimum and to ensure we do not leave any long term environmental liabilities.
All our sites, with the exception of the newly-opened Kibali, are ISO 14001 certified, which helps us to identify and deal with any environmental risks and thereby comply with international best practice.
We also conduct independent audits to check our compliance with the IFC Performance Standards.
We had no significant environmental fines or non-monetary sanctions in 2014 and Morilas ISO certification was reviewed and recertified.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 138 Importance to stakeholders Our environmental management systems track three ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS 2014 types of environmental incidents ranging from major Class 1 Class 2 Class 3 class 1 incidents such as incidents resulting in destruction Loulo - 10% 47% of community property, to moderate class 2 and more minor class 3 incidents such as release of effluents within Gounkoto - - 21% the boundary fence.
Morila - - 1% Tongon 1% 1% 10% In 2014, there was one major and 20 moderate Kibali - 9% 17% environmental incidents across the group.
This was the Total 1% 20% 96% first class 1 incident in three years.
The incident occurred at Tongon in December 2014 when a tailings pipeline Overall, our energy usage across the group this year burst and, although initially contained in a small dam, was 764 140MW, an increase of around 30% on our was accidentally pumped into a diversion trench linked 2013 usage and reflecting the increase in production to the river.
While the leaked slurry was contained in the levels.
Encouragingly, our energy efficiency improved dam it was treated with an iron sulphate, to neutralise from 46.3kWh for each tonne of ore milled in 2013 to chemicals such as cyanide.
However, the incident caused 44.5kWh tonne ore milled, meaning we used around 4% the death of some fish and required remedial action to be less energy for each tonne milled.
taken including water sampling to test levels of sulphates and toxins in the local water supply and information and Some of the biggest increases in energy use in the early part awareness sessions with communities downstream and of 2014 were at our Loulo mine and, towards the end of the along the river.
A formal report was submitted to the year, we commissioned an independent audit into power minister of mines in Cte dIvoire who also undertook their efficiency at the site to identify where energy could be own investigation as is the standard for such incidents.
This resulted in a number of innovations will continue to monitor closely for any negative effects in for power saving that are now being implemented including 2015. running the CAT machines and spinning reserves at more optimum levels, improving underground efficiency by In 2014, the Kibali Environmental and Social Impact installing a single pump and by stopping the underground Assessment ESIA was updated to include new satellite conveyors running continuously.
This entailed completing numerous specialist studies the overall milling system at Loulo had already observed as well as public consultation, all of which was in line with significant improvements in power efficiency.
One of the highlights of 2014 in this area was the bringing Gold mining is an energy online of the Nzoro II hydropower station at Kibali see case Energy use and intensive operation but study.
Our increased use of hydropower last year has we strive to reduce our been one of the contributing factors in our improvements greenhouse gas energy use using in emission intensity from 50.47 tonnes COe kt milled in 2 emissions measures that are 2013 to 42.43 tonnes of COe kt milled in 2014.
Also in 2 appropriate for each site.
For example, at Kibali there is an 2014, solar panels were introduced at Loulo to generate abundance of water so we are working to maximise use of power for the offices and administrative buildings.
In 2015, hydropower: while in Tongon most of our energy savings we may consider commissioning feasibility studies into come from connections to the national grid.
We also seek where further use of renewables may be viable, especially to instigate energy efficiency measures at all operations.
in Mali where return on investment is likely to be highest.
ENERGY AND EMISSIONS Energy efficiency 000kWh t ore milled Number of operating mines Electricity use 000MWh Number of operating mines 2012 4 4 2012 2013 5 5 2013 5 2014 2014 5 0 10 20 30 40 50 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 1 GHG emissions Tonnes COe Number of operating mines Emission intensity Tonnes COe t milled Number of operating mines 2 2 4 2012 4 2012 2013 5 5 2013 2014 5 2014 5 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 1 Figures relate to sites where Randgold has management control and are not based on the equity share that the company owns.
Includes both Scope 1 emissions which are direct emissions occurring from sources that are controlled by the company and Scope 2 emissions which include emissions from the generation of purchased electricity.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 139 Case study: GIVING A DAM - HARNESSING HYDROPOWER IN THE DRC It is reported that only 30% of people in sub-Saharan Africa have access to reliable power and only around 1% of DRCs rural population.
The largely rural communities around our Kibali mine know total cost of $88 million, we estimate that the station will have all about this with no connection to the national grid and paid for itself completely within 15 months.
Randgolds work to develop hydropower in the region has transformed the area.
Hydroelectricity stations are a much cleaner way of generating electricity than the burning of fossil fuels such Our first step was to refurbish a smaller hydropower station as diesel but they are not without sustainability impact.
Nzoro I originally built in the 1930s by Belgian miners, which For example, hydropower stations have been criticised for now provides around 1.4MW of power for local communities.
their need to flood a large amount of land.
However, Nzoro However, a more significant step in terms of power generation is a run of the river station and so did not require a large was taken in May 2014 when we concluded the construction flooding area and its canal did not require any resettlements of the much larger Nzoro II station.
There was wide consultation with the local community throughout the construction of the station.
The station is located on the banks of the Nzoro River and is a run of the river hydrostation with a four kilometre canal Nzoro II is not the end of Randgolds hydropower plans leading to four turbines.
We have another hydropower station, Ambarau currently under construction and plans for a further The station makes a major contribution to power use at hydrostation, which will take total power output from Kibali, generating around 60% of its power needs.
Nzoro II Randgolds hydrostations to 42MW, enabling Kibali to obtain generates up to 20MW of power enough to power up the over 90% of its power from hydro by 2016. equivalent of 1 000 Western European houses and saves Randgold around $7 million a month in diesel costs.
At a When the mine closes, our hydrostations will be handed over to the local government to provide more electricity for the area.
The turbines of the newly-built Nzoro II hydropower station.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 140 country.
In Mali and Cte dIvoire, which are prone to drought, A recent survey by Ernst & security of water supply and efficient use of water are our most Young named water as one of Water critical concerns whereas our Kibali mine receives nearly two the top 10 business risks facing management metres of rainfall each year so does not have such issues global mining companies and around security of supply.
water management is certainly a major issue for Randgold.
From processing to irrigation, drinking water to sanitation, The amount of water that we take from freshwater sources such managing our water is fundamental to the functioning of our as rivers is governed by permit restrictions set by the relevant, mines and to the well-being of surrounding communities and governing authority.
Our water abstraction last year totalled environments.
17 471Ml, an increase on 2013 levels which reflects our increased production.
Our water efficiency improved from Our individual operations develop site-based action plans on 3 3 1.07m tonne to 1.01m tonne.
water management due to the variations in climate in each OUR APPROACH TO WATER RECYCLING Evaporation Any water owing out of our system 75% is regularly tested of process water and monitored for was recycled contaminants in 2014 Processing plant Tailings & dams Vast majority of water is used at the processing plant and funneled into our closed loop system FRESHWATER Uses such as SOURCES drinking water, The amount of irrigation and dust freshwater we can suppression take is set by permits agreed with government River Groundwater Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 141 At the centre of our water management policy is our ambitious group target to recycle 85% of process water.
Water recycling helps to reduce overheads, ensures security of supply in drought prone areas and mitigates the potential of environmental incidents.
It also reduces energy use as less electricity is needed to pump from freshwater sources.
Our water recycling levels reached 75% in 2014.
Although this total did not meet our group target, it was still a relatively high level of recycling.
Water saving measures that helped achieve this figure included measures to maximise return water from tailings dams and the creation of water champions in some teams.
The commissioning of Kibalis TSF was a big factor in lowering levels of return water recycling in 2014, as the return water line was only operational some six months after the commissioning of the TSF.
With this now in place we are confident of achieving the group recycling target of 85% in 2015.
Efforts at Loulo were also notable in 2014 as improvements in water efficiency there reduced abstraction from Malis Falm River by around one million cubic meters, the equivalent of Randgold regularly monitors surface and groundwater as well as drinking water for pollutants.
13 million bath tubs of water.
We regularly monitor surface and Our total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges in 3 3 groundwater quality and test drinking 2014 was 19 117 196m of which 19 098 071m was controlled Water 3 water on and off site for the risk of and 19 125m 0.1% was uncontrolled.
In line with international standards and local legislation, we test for over 30 A new innovation that is being piloted at Loulo in 2014 has been chemical elements including various heavy metals, cyanide and to introduce a wetlands system below the water treatment plant arsenic.
In the DRC, a government agency conducts an for underground water.
The wetlands remove sediments and independent audit of our monitoring processes every two pollutants such as nitrates from the water.
in the water system due to residue from the use of explosives, however the wetlands feed on them, using them as nutrients There are also regular checks and reinforcements made to our and removing them from the water cycle.
tailings storage facilities TSFs where the waste products from our processing plant are deposited.
An independent auditor We have site-specific regularly checks the management of these facilities.
This year waste management Waste and cyanide we took remedial action at Loulo when a borehole near the plans in place at each management TSF showed elevated levels of iron and sulphates.
We have site covering the commissioned a survey to look carefully at what the source of variety of wastes that we produce including organic, inorganic this pollution might be and to present the best options to deal and hazardous materials.
Each plan details how each type of material should be handled, stored, separated, recycled or with it including updating the TSF model.
This will be enacted disposed of.
We strive to recycle and reuse waste wherever in early 2015.
WATER USE 3 1 Total fresh water offtake 000Ml Number of operating mines Total withdrawal efficiency m tonne Number of operating mines 4 4 2012 2012 2013 5 5 2013 2014 5 2014 5 0 5 10 15 20 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 Total water recycled % Number of operating mines 2012 4 2013 5 2014 5 1 This refers to the water extracted by the mine, with the 0 20 40 60 80 100 denominator being the total processed tonnes.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 142 Case study: GENERATING VALUE FROM WASTE GIE Kanimadyba GIE is a community-based waste collection company in Loulo village near our Loulo-Gounkoto complex in Mali.
The company began as part of a local economic development programme aimed at both improving quality of life for residents and creating alternative non-mining jobs in the region.
In the past, there was no waste collection service or dump and waste was disposed of in a haphazard way around the village, often left to litter the streets or fields.
GIE provide residents of Loulo with waste collection and disposal services for a small fee.
Collected waste is taken to a new site for sorting and disposal.
GIE was started by two entrepreneurs in the village, who now each earn $123 a month, and is run by a management committee comprised of villagers who share the remaining profits.
The village is now significantly cleaner and community leaders say that attitudes towards waste disposal are beginning to change.
In 2015, Randgold aims to establish similar community companies in the much bigger To help GIE get started, Randgold provided 212 bins and an interest free loan of $1 710 to cover other start-up costs.
village of Djidjan near the Loulo-Gounkoto complex and In the future, Randgold plans to train GIE staff to ensure all around our Kibali mine in the DRC.
possible and to ensure all materials are dispatched safely.
In 2014, we continued to ensure that all staff are trained in our When required, we bring in outside expertise such as using new cyanide standard, including extra training and supervision geotechnical engineers to ensure that waste rock dumps are for those transporting cyanide and burning waste packaging stable with correctly angled slopes.
and increasing the frequency of monitoring at tailings dams.
Throughout the year, the company used 10 468 tonnes of Arguably the most important part of our waste management cyanide with one environmental incident relating to cyanide is the handling of hazardous waste including acids, chemicals taking place in 2014 the class 1 incident at Tongon detailed and, in particular, cyanide.
In 2013, we reviewed our cyanide management and introduced We also see waste management as an opportunity to partner a new internal cyanide code to ensure we are aligned with with local communities and to develop self-sustaining, profitinternational best practice for its production, transportation, generating waste management companies.
This includes conducting annual cyanide example, we found a local buyer for waste oil near Tongon and, audits at each site.
at Loulo village, encouraged the creation of GIE Kanimadyba see: Generating value from waste.
TONNES OF WASTE GENERATED In Durba in the DRC, over 100 tonnes of scrap metal each year is sold to traditional chiefs who have created an NGO to recycle Tonnes 2014 2013 and sell it with the proceeds spent on community projects such 1 Tailings 17 174 516 12 749 069 as road and bridge maintenance.
Waste rock 86 209 131 79 546 766 Our mines have an impact on Hazardous 6 189 8 090 the flora and fauna present on Protecting 2 General 5 025 5 763 the original sites but we go to biodiversity great lengths to minimise our 1 Does not include data from Gounkoto.
negative effects and to repair damage done wherever 2 Includes organic and inorganic.
No habitats of any endangered species are affected by Randgold mines.
TOTAL LAND REHABILITATED AND DISTURBED Detailed records of the full range of biodiversity present 2014 2013 2012 on a site are taken during the initial ESIAs on any project Total hectares and each site has a large and detailed biodiversity rehabilitated 16 5.8 153.4 action plan, detailing various habitats across the site to Total hectares help restore our sites to match the original ecosystems disturbed 682 1 063 5 791 as much as possible.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 143 In the DRC, this has resulted in an innovative partnership Land restoration is an on-going process and we with the Garamba National Park in the north of the are continually working to replant indigenous plants throughout the life of the mine.
The parks elephant population is under extreme pressure, having halved over the past five years, In 2014, we rehabilitated six hectares of land and planted and in 2014 Randgold sponsored the collaring of eight a total of 8 252 trees at all sites.
This included the planting elephants.
The collars will provide Garamba staff with a of around 2 000 trees at Kibali to form a botanic garden better understanding of the home range of the elephants, area where wildlife has returned to the site including determine conservation boundaries and focus antibush buck, snakes and white tailed mongoose which poaching patrols.
were all observed last year.
We have also paid for a pilot and Jet A-1 fuel for a plane We have signage on all sites to indicate areas where to allow aerial surveying of the park and are working with animals may be present and staff are encouraged to the park to study aquatic diversity.
It is hoped that the respect animals on site through wildlife awareness education programmes.
Hunting of wildlife is also Garamba partnership will help to secure the future of prohibited within our mining permit zones.
this national asset and have the potential to kick-start the development of an eco-tourism industry which could In 2014, we also undertook a monitoring survey in the benefit the whole region.
Falm and Gara river systems around Loulo in Mali which is helping us assess whether there are adverse effects on Management of ambient air aquatic life around the mine and what measures need to quality, and in particular the Dust be undertaken to protect it.
suppression of dust, is an management important part of our Where land cannot be rehabilitated, we consider the use environmental policy.
Most of our countries of operation of biodiversity offsets to achieve a net biodiversity gain are dusty, particularly during the dry season, and many of in line with guidance from the International Union for Conservation of Nature IUCN.
the processes of mining such as blasting, dumping and The Garamba partnership will not only help to secure the future of this national asset but has the potential to kick-start the development of an eco-tourism industry which could benefit the whole region.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 144 crushing can combine with this climate to create limits for staff.
We also work to plant areas of exposed significant amounts of dust.
dirt and rock as soon as possible to help keep dust on site to a minimum.
High levels of airborne dust can cause sore eyes and result in breathing problems for workers, nearby communities Throughout 2014, Kibali, Morila and Tongon mines and livestock exposed to it.
recorded low to moderate dust levels at all monitoring stations.
However, dust management around our Loulo That is why we work to keep dust levels as low as possible and Gounkoto mines and particularly on the Loulowith policies and procedures for dust control governed by Gounkoto service road has been a particular area of IFC guidelines.
Airborne dust is monitored both on site focus for us in 2014 as monitoring stations returned dust 2 and in local communities through a series of monitoring levels in excess of the 500mg m day level.
stations with dust buckets capturing airborne particulate.
Monitoring stations are checked monthly to monitor how In response to the high dust levels around Loulomuch dust has been in the air.
Gounkoto, we have run a pilot programme trialling the application of different substances including polymers, The main way we suppress dust across all our sites is molasses and bitumen to roads to consider which is most through regular road wetting with priority given to heavily effective.
Results will be analysed and the most effective used roads and those in the community.
Where required, dust suppression method rolled out in 2015. we also make use of dust suppressants.
Workers in areas such as the pit, which are inevitably very We have also run a number of speed awareness dusty due to the nature of the processes taking place, are programmes for our drivers and enforce strict speed provided with personal protective equipment to protect their eyes and lungs and receive regular medical checks Dust management on the busy Loulo-Gounkoto service road was an area of focus in 2014. and if necessary to allow for appropriate action taken.
