Community development 64% increase in spending by local community development committees 57% decrease in number of grievances registered, with over 99% resolved 130 small community businesses funded through Randgold supported microfinance 22 boreholes drilled or rehabilitated to provide drinking water, maternity facilities, youth complex and agribusiness training centre among community projects in 2014 We see community issues as opportunities to be grasped.
Community engagement Community development and investment Local economic Local and national development employment development Local procurement and partner development R&C Current potential impact on the business Engagement with, and investment in, the local community both ranked very highly in our materiality assessment in 2013: and they sit alongside other community based issues such as artisanal mining, grievance management, resettlement and human rights as vital areas of our sustainability work.
As explained in this section, we see all these community issues not just as risks, but as opportunities to be grasped.
That is because our local communities provide us with talented workers, competent and cost effective suppliers and a secure environment for our mines giving the company a vital competitive advantage.
In return, we want our mines to catalyse lasting advancement in education, health care, poverty alleviation and local economic development.
We believe that the people who are best equipped to shape community development are the local community themselves.
Our policies and That is why we have established elected community performance development committees CDCs which is the heart of our community investment.
CDCs consist of local leaders as well as women and youth group representatives who become responsible for the allocation of a community investment budget.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 116 Importance to stakeholders COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT POLICY IN ACTION 2014 Community development committees Communities filter projects through five sustainable development categories Local Primary Food Potable Education economic healthcare security water development $83 000 on $85 000 road maternity facilities in maintenance in Cte dIvoire: Cte dIvoire: Ebola prevention $53 000 for a youth supplies for complex building communities in Mali Over $200 000 to develop an agribusiness training centre in Mali 2 schools, 22 boreholes 5 classrooms drilled or constructed across rehabilitated all host countries Examples of projects in 2014 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 117 Each community investment budget is designed to reflect ANNUAL CDC EXPENDITURE a mines production levels and is spent on local projects that fall within five broad sustainable development $ 2014 2013 2012 categories: primary healthcare, education, food security, Loulo 238 068 435 211 222 448 potable water and local economic development.
Gounkoto 735 838 406 198 115 347 Each Randgold mine works closely with its CDCs to Morila 182 862 147 872 190 748 ensure that the projects they invest in can be maintained Tongon 587 690 343 459 304 191 after the mine has closed.
For example, if the CDC invests Kibali 909 047 284 826 n a in drilling boreholes, we ensure there is also training for villagers to maintain and repair those water sources in the Total 2 653 505 1 617 566 832 734 future.
Where possible, we partner with local NGOs to harness their knowledge and expertise too.
As shown here, total spend CDCs have been functioning well around all our mines by all committees rose by 64% in 2014 to a total of more throughout 2014 and we include a snapshot of each than $2.6 million.
CDC EXPENDITURE Loulo Gounkoto Morila Tongon Kibali $000 1 000 800 600 400 200 0 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 118 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Community development committee activity in 2014 Tongon community radio station for the region, following successful The Tongon CDC increased its spending by over 70% in 2014, work to support Radio Sanso in Mali.
Local radio has proved investing over $580 000 in community projects.
both a popular medium for the local communities and a useful communication tool for the mine.
One of the highlights of Among other initiatives, this helped fund two new maternity the year was an award from Cte dIvoire President Alassane wards, the Korokara water project see case study below Ouattara which recognised the mines contributions to the and the construction of five school classrooms in the town community in the fields of health, education and in encouraging youth entrepreneurship.
There was also support for the creation of a Tongon case study: ENSURING SAFE DRINKING WATER In Cte dIvoire, an estimated four million citizens lack access to a reliable clean 1 water supply, which can cause diarrhoea and serious debilitating illnesses.
In the village of Korokara near Tongon, the wells often dried up during the dry season and forced the women of the village to travel large distances to find water for their families, often from unsafe sources.
This not only increased the risk of illness but also limited their opportunity to earn an income or spend time caring for their children.
In 2014, the Tongon CDC acted to help the village to guarantee its water supply all year round, by spending $148 000 to drill new boreholes, build a water tower and install an electric pump.
The village has also created a water management committee to oversee the water supply and ensure it is properly maintained.
To ensure the project is sustainable for the long term, a small contribution is requested of users per ten litres of water drawn, which covers the costs of maintenance and electricity for the pump.
org Morila Spending by the Morila CDC increased by over 23% in 2014 members in tractor management and the creation of a major reaching $182 862.
Morila is the longest-standing CDC and new youth complex see case study below.
A fund established projects last year included fixing a solar-powered borehole, for the sale of scrap metal also enabled a new health care financial support to local schools, training for community centre to be built at Figola, a nearby village.
Morila case study: GIVING YOUTH A CHANCE IN MALI Mali has a very young population.
It is estimated that nearly 80% of the population is under 35.
This makes youth unemployment a critical issue for the country with young job seekers said to represent 81% of all unemployed people in the country.
To help address some of the issues facing the youth In 2015, solar panels will be installed to provide the centre with electricity and there are also plans for sound around our Morila mine in 2014, the CDC funded and equipment.
oversaw the construction of the Domba youth and cultural centre which was completed and handed over to the The centre has capacity for about 400 people and community in late 2014.
It comprises three buildings, provides a much needed training venue and entertainment including a theatre with a raised stage for performances facility for 16 nearby villages.
Since completion, the centre and presentations and a large projection screen to show has been in constant use and very well received by local communities.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 119 Loulo Spending by the Loulo committee decreased in 2014, but assistance to the elderly, teacher salary payments and work the committee still invested over $238 000 in local projects.
to improve the profitability of several businesses in the local This included training in new economic sectors for local community.
During 2015, the construction of infrastructure women see case study below, financial assistance to for the agribusiness project, to the value of $1.3 million, will a local committee to help prevent the spread of Ebola, be completed Loulo case study: SOAP AND JAM TRAINING FOR WOMEN Opportunities for paid employment for women tend to be limited in rural Mali.
In order to create new economic activities for local women in the region, the Loulo CDC invested in training for both soap and jam production in 2014.
This included bringing in Bamako-based NGO RESERD to train 30 women from 15 villages around Loulo in soap production.
The ladies have since returned to their villages and trained others in the process and formed collectives to sell soap to their communities.
It is estimated that the trained women now sell over 1 400 bars of soap each week, creating a turnover of around $500.
In 2014, we also encouraged our catering company Food and Events Africa FEA to train ten women from the local villages of Loulo and Djidian to make jam.
The women now make enough jars each month to supply FEA with jam for the onsite supermarket and for use in Loulos staff canteens.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 120 Gounkoto The Gounkoto committee benefited from a large increase in Other projects that the committee funded included the spending in 2014, due largely to the upfront costs required to distribution of Ebola-prevention kits, the equipping of a high construct a new agribusiness centre in the community see school computer laboratory in the town of Kenieba and the case study below.
In total, committee spending increased drilling of a new water borehole.
Gounkoto case study: SOWING THE SEEDS FOR AN AGRICULTURAL BOOM Agriculture plays a crucial role in Malis rural and national economic development.
It is responsible for about 40% of Malian gross domestic product and is likely to be the main employment sector in the area when the Gounkoto mine eventually closes.
However, most agricultural activity in the Gounkoto area is Every year, the centre will train 100 locals on all aspects currently done by small holders and subsistence farmers, of farming from cattle rearing to crops to composting, who have difficulty accessing markets and developing their along with leadership and entrepreneurship skills.
trained will also include artisanal miners, helping in our challenge to find alternative livelihoods for illegal miners.
To help local farmers to scale up their businesses and to therefore create employment and food security for the local Training at the centre will be led by Mali based agrocommunity, the Gounkoto CDC spent $280 000 in 2014 pastoral consultants Tambaroua Business Farming TBF establishing an agricultural training centre.
and graduates will be provided with access to finance to help establish their own farms or to gain greater market Construction began late last year and is due to be completed in May 2015. access for their produce.
Kibali We believe that passing the ownership and management of At Kibali, the committee is now entering its second year and assets such as health clinics to local control is key to ensuring increased its spending by over 200% in 2014.
The committee that development is locked in for the long term.
helped fund the construction or maintenance of several local facilities including Surur School, road and bridge repair and the Further examples and case studies of community development handover of the local health clinic to the provincial government in the Orientale Province.
work around Kibali can be found throughout this report.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 121 Managing the livelihood.
This policy is in line with both IFC and International issue of Council on Mining and Metals ICMM guidance.
Providing alternative artisanal mining livelihoods for In both Mali and the DRC, significant numbers of artisanal is one of our artisanal miners miners were present on our sites before the mines exclusion most challenging zone was created and much work has been done in areas of sustainability.
Artisanal and small-scale mining conjunction with local and national authorities to offer them ASM activity is present at our Kibali mine and at the work on the mine or in new economic sectors such as Loulo-Gounkoto complex.
agriculture, construction or the service economy.
Their presence is problematic because although we respect As is the case with Asiah Logo see case study this can be a the fact that artisanal mining is the traditional source of great success, but it remains challenging to many individual income for most of these individuals, a large proportion of orpailleurs who have known no other work and can find it it is illegal and its presence can create tensions for local difficult to adapt to the slower but steadier income of a communities.
It encourages child labour and endangers sector such as agriculture.
With this in mind one of our main both human health and the environment.
For example a areas of work in 2014 has been to develop a more structured water quality survey of the rivers around the Loulo mine in approach to creating agribusiness on designated sites for 2014 concluded that local artisanal mining activities had illegal miners, and which uses more up-front payments to resulted in large increases in pollutants in the water.
encourage them to down tools and try it.
Randgolds policy for managing illegal artisanal mining We also offer non-mining jobs in or around the mine such as is centred on a no conflict and no invasions approach stone pitching, administration, tree planting or sweeping of that seeks to encourage the individuals into an alternative power lines.
Case study: CREATING ALTERNATIVE LIVELIHOODS FOR ARTISANAL MINERS Asiah Logo grew up in the town of Durba just near Kibali, DRC and spent many years as an artisanal miner before the Kibali mine started production.
Artisanal mining was hard work, he says.
You could sometimes do well and find many kilograms of gold, but it was very dangerous and I saw many, many friends die, both in the pit and from mercury poisoning.
I once saw a tunnel collapse killing around 40 people.
When Randgold arrived in 2010, they encouraged me to register a proper company with the Congolese authorities and to take some of the opportunities that were on offer.
My first job was to help with stone pitching on the main site and then to help fix two bridges in the area.
Asiah formed a company called Le Coq and soon became a reliable and efficient constructor and maintenance agent that the mine could turn to.
As Le Coq won more work from the mine, including the construction of houses for the new resettlement town of Kokiza, the company continued to grow.
Asiah Logo right, now running a 65 person company, in front Asiah explains that knowledge transfer has been key to Le of the house he lived in as an artisanal miner.
At first, I got outside people to help do the jobs.
We had someone from Uganda fix the first bridge but we also made them teach us the skills so the second Asiah explains: We have set up other branches of the bridge was done by me and a local team.
We sell timber and other items used in construction now and we are building a shopping As of late 2014, Le Coq employed 65 people, all of them from complex that will have shops and a garage as tenants.
the local area and most of whom are former artisanal miners.
I have a wife and seven children so they drive me on!
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 122 It is an area we will continue to monitor and manage closely We strive to avoid resettling in 2015.
Ultimately, the existence of the ASM community is households when we create our Peaceful and linked to the historic levels of poverty that exist in many of our mines, but when resettlement progressive areas of operation and a viable long term solution requires a does need to take place our resettlement broad initiative devised in partnership with governments and policy is to make sure that the affected person is at the centre of the process.
households are engaged at an early stage and throughout the process in order to create an agreed Resettlement Creating and sustaining an Action Plan RAP, and our process commits to ensuring open, two-way channel of Hearing and that their standard of living is improved or at the very least communication between resolving restored.
each mine and its grievances surrounding community is In 2013, Randgold completed the largest resettlement at the heart or our community development approach.
Our programme in its history, settling over 4 000 households into grievance mechanism is therefore a key tool for Randgold.
the new $84 million town of Kokiza in the DRC.
Details of this The mechanism is based on guidance laid out in the IFC large scale project can be found in last years sustainability Performance Standards and the Equator Principles and report and, in 2014, one of our main focuses was about aims to be an approachable, transparent and fair way for helping to ensure that the new town has all the support community members to register any non-employment it needs to grow and thrive.
For example, a successful related worries or complaints they have on the impacts of the initiative in 2014 was our Pride of Ownership competition, mine.
It is a mechanism that we set up at a very early stage sponsored by Randgolds CEO, which offered a prize to the and which we advertise widely using local radio, posters and resident who had done the most to improve the aesthetics local notice boards.
We commit to responding to all of their house since resettlement.
At Christmas 2014, grievances within one week.
the construction of the new Roman Catholic Church was also completed.
This sits on a hill overlooking the largely As shown below, just under 500 grievances were received Christian town and serves as a major landmark for the region in 2014, a 57% decrease on last year, with over 98% being as a whole.
The vast majority of grievances were registered at Kibali.
This is because the In total, 29 families were resettled in 2014, all as part of an grievance mechanism is also the tool that is used for any additional RAP created to facilitate the creation of the new resettlement issues to be adjudicated on and Kibali is the Mofu pit at Kibali.
At the time of writing, we estimate that only site which had resettlement underway in 2014. in 2015 there will be between 600 1 000 households potentially resettled, depending in part on the results of a Apart from resettlement related claims at Kibali, examples feasibility study for another satellite pit at Kibali which is of grievances in 2014 included complaints about flooded currently underway.
crop land in Cte dIvoire that received compensation, an objection from two casual workers at Kibali who thought that RESETTLEMENT FIGURES alternative jobs were to be made available at the end of their contract when no such commitment had been made, and 2014 2013 2012 a grievance from the Renzi village in DRC expressing fears Number of of pollution in their water source.
The latter grievance was households resolved when extensive testing, shared with the community, resettled 29 4 216 1 208 showed that there was no contamination of the water.
RAP expenditure $0.4 million $92.4 million $51.0 million GRIEVANCES REGISTERED AND RESOLVED Randgold published a detailed Grievances update of our human rights Respecting Registered Resolved Resolved Resolved policy in 2012, outlining our 1 human rights 2014 2014 2013 2012 commitment to upholding Loulo 2 2 100% 8 5 fundamental human rights wherever we do business.
The policy covers all aspects of our business including, but not 2 1 50% Gounkoto 1 10 limited to, areas of employment, resettlement, engagement Kibali 481 479 99% 1 130 1 013 of private security forces and our work with suppliers and Morila - - 2 - contractors.
Tongon 5 2 40% 22 16 We track any human rights infringements through our Total 490 484 99% 1 163 1 044 grievance mechanism, and none of the 500 grievances this 1 At 31 December.
year was human rights related.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 123 Nos Vies en Partage f o u n d a t i o n S H A R I N G P R O S P E R I T Y We recognise that our commitment to human rights requires us to take positive steps to ensure our projects do not infringe on the enjoyment of human rights in our areas of impact.
That is why in 2014 we have continued to include human rights clauses within all our supplier contracts thereby putting a legal duty on them to comply with our zero tolerance policies in areas such as bribery or child labour in the supply chain.
We monitor conformance with these clauses, alongside all our terms and conditions, as part of our annual inspections of suppliers and there were no infringements recorded in 2014.
It is Randgolds policy not to arm any security forces on our mines.
Instead, we agree legally binding contracts with the Separate to Randgolds core work, we were delighted relevant local authorities that take into account the Universal that the newly created charitable foundation Nos Vies en Declaration of Human Rights and aim to ensure safety and Partage Foundation which roughly translates as sharing security for any military or policing matters.
We also provide prosperity enjoyed its first full year of operation in 2014. relevant staff, including security personnel, with appropriate cultural and human rights training and guidance and, where The foundation aims to spread the benefits of development possible, invite relevant agencies of the United Nations to beyond the surroundings of Randgolds mines including in conduct training.
countries such as Angola, Benin, Gabon and Ghana.
In total, 733 security staff members received human rights One of the foundations focuses is on projects supporting training in 2014, including agents at the Kibali, Tongon, women and children who typically benefit the least from Morila, Gounkoto and Loulo mines.
As part of our efforts to Already Nos Vies en Partage Foundation has supported catalyse sustainable projects across 11 sub-Saharan African countries.
These Finance for economic development, include assistance to orphanages, a centre for physically development and mentally disadvantaged children, a home caring for the Randgold has begun to increasingly use microfinance as a tool.
This fosters elderly, a number of NGOs providing assistance to women entrepreneurialism in areas where there have historically and ill or neglected children and a charity supporting children with cancer.
been no banks or access to other kinds of credit.
As of 2014, we have supported a microfinance institution The foundation is funded partly from the money raised by the sponsored motorbike tour from Abidjan in Cte dIvoire for the communities around Morila CAMIDE and Tongon PAMF-CI and are at an advanced stage of progress with to Cape Town, South Africa, that Randgolds CEO Mark Bristow, his son Craig, and a number of friends completed a provider for the Loulo-Gounkoto communities.
The Loulo mine also extended microfinance loans directly to two in 2014. businesses in 2014.
We want to ensure Meeting the Our policy is to support existing appropriately accredited that by building worldinstitutions to lend where possible rather than doing so class gold mines, in development partnership with our directly.
This is because we want to harness their expertise challenge together but also to ensure that we foster a culture of independence host countries, we create tangible and lasting development benefits for local and not reliance on the mine.
We also encourage the communities.
However, the challenges on the ground every institutions to lend at a low interest rate.
day are very real and very extensive, so the question of where to draw the line on community investment is one that is In 2014, over 130 small enterprises received funding in this regularly discussed.
way with businesses ranging from cattle to clothes, battery charging to bracelets and cellphones to cereal.
On the one hand, our commercial interests lead us to invest significantly in areas such as primary healthcare, drinking There was particularly encouraging progress in Cte dIvoire water and education.
Yet on the other hand, as a business, where, in its first full year of operation, the microfinance a limit has to be placed on our role so that more permanent, facility proved popular and recorded a 98% recovery of loans publicly-owned entities can take over and ensure the social with approximately 30% of loans going to women.
In 2015, development we foster lasts long after our mines have closed.
we will work to establish a microfinance facility for Kibali.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 124 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 125 We are delighted that by taking a similar approach at the Finding the line main primary school in Loulo village in Mali we have seen We believe that every citizen should benefit from a national asset the examination pass rate surge from just 6% 7 out of 117 such as gold but, for everyone to benefit, we must maximise students to 87% in 2014. every dollar that can be extracted from that asset.
Therefore all our sustainable development efforts are done in partnership From outputs to outcomes with the local community with a view to establishing how it will To constantly improve our impact in the communities where we run once the mine closes, whenever that will be.
operate, we have also committed to monitor the outcomes of our community development work more closely, instead of just For example, rather than running a workers bus from local the outputs.
towns to the mines, we prefer to extend a repayable travel allowance to each individual worker.
Employees tend to use This year, therefore, instead of only measuring how many this to finance the purchase of a small motorbike or even a car, schools or classrooms are built, we have also looked at areas enabling flexibility rather than dependence on mine-sponsored such as class sizes because smaller class sizes are commonly transportation and giving each individual a potential asset they regarded to lead to better overall educational outcomes for can own in the future.
We have also monitored the provision of basic resources to schools.
We try to tread a similar line when it comes to improving education in our local communities.
Its in our core business As shown on the next page, the new schools built by Randgold interests to have good quality schools in the areas around our are delivering smaller than average class sizes in DRC and Mali mines as this helps attract and retain the best talent: but we and higher than average connectivity to drinking water and, in also know that transforming schooling standards is ultimately Mali only, electricity.
However it is clear that more work needs the responsibility of governments or other local agencies.
to be done to reduce class sizes in Cte dIvoire and to improve access to electricity and water both in Cte dIvoire and DRC.
This is why at Kibali the mine facilitated a workshop with tribal We believe that our partnership approach is not only central to chiefs and local authorities in 2014, to discuss how we could our commercial success but crucial to ensuring that our mines all work together to improve school standards in the area.
act as a catalyst for genuinely sustainable development.
The workshop took a businesslike approach, identifying the blockages and then drawing up a plan of action involving a The new Catholic Church in Kokiza was completed in December 2014. range of stakeholders including the national education minister.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 126 Randgold extends a repayable travel allowance to employees MEASURING LOCAL OUTPUTS who tend to use this to finance the purchase of a small motorbike or even a car, enabling flexibility and giving them a potential asset Average size of classes in primary schools they can own in the future.
number of pupils 1 National average Schools newly Randgold works together with local stakeholders to improve constructed by school standards.
our mines Cte d'Ivoire 46 65 DRC 75 50 Mali 52 2011 40 Percentage of primary schools with access to electricity and potable water Access to electricity 1 National % Schools newly constructed by our mines Cte d'Ivoire 25% 2009 0% DRC 9% 2011 0% Mali 8% 44% Access to water 1 National % Schools newly constructed by our mines Cte d'Ivoire 51% 2009 50% DRC 35% 2010 35% Mali 43% 55% 1 Source: UNESCO data 2012.
