Other Information Management of Sustainability Sustainability Programme Board oversight The CEO has specific responsibility for sustainability.
As part of established The Board regularly considers and takes account of the significance of management processes, which include performance management systems sustainability matters, their potential risks to the business of the Group and appropriate remuneration incentives, senior management reports and the opportunities to enhance value that may arise from an directly to the CEO on sustainability matters on a regular basis.
Executive Committee EC, the EVP Category Development has operational accountability for the implementation of sustainability bar charitable The Board undertakes a formal review of sustainability matters at least giving, in partnership with the EVP Supply, and supported by the rest of annually.
This includes providing oversight to ensure that the Group has in the EC within their respective areas and functions.
In the category place effective policies, systems and procedures for managing sustainability development organisation, the Category Group Director Innovation & matters and mitigating significant sustainability risks.
Additionally, the Sustainability manages the sustainability programme on a day-to-day basis.
Audit Committee regularly reviews the arrangements for, and effectiveness The R&D function includes the Global Regulatory Affairs GRA group, of, risk management including the full range of risks facing the Group such which is responsible for ensuring that our products meet regulatory as risks relating to sustainability matters, reputational risks and risks requirements and are safe for their intended use.
Our SVP Human relating to employees.
Resources HR and the global HR function manage the Groups human resources, employee remuneration and benefits, employment practices, The Board believes that it receives adequate information and training on organisational development, training and elements of health and safety sustainability matters and their potential risks and opportunities to the e. g. stress management.
The Board has identified and assessed the range of sustainability and associated reputational risks and concluded that there The Group has a full set of policies, Key Performance Indicators, targets, are limited material risks to the Groups long and short-term value arising programmes and control arrangements, building on its central Code of from sustainability matters, other than potential risks common to similarly 1 Conduct, that address the full range of sustainability matters and sized businesses operating in its industry sectors and with similarly reputational risks.
The sustainability and corporate responsibility section well-known brands.
For more information, please see page 132. on the Groups website www.
com sustainability and its annual 1 Sustainability matters include environmental matters including the impact of the sustainability reports available at www.
com provide further Groups business on the environment, its employees, and social and community issues.
information, including the extent to which it complies with those policies, systems and procedures and progress towards targets KPIs.
The Group reports in line with the Global Reporting Initiatives Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.
Key areas of sustainability internal control and performance, including sustainability disclosures, are independently reviewed and verified by both internal and external organisations, including Internal Audit, and their findings regularly reported to senior management, the CEO, the Audit Committee and the Board.
In addition, selected data in the annual Sustainability Report are assured by external auditors.
The Group focuses on a number of sustainability topics, including but not limited to: Climate change Water scarcity Product stewardship Supply chain responsibility and human rights Health & Safety For information on the Boards assessment of the range of sustainability and associated reputation risk, see page 132.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 133
