Strategic Report People and Culture Taking ownership Unique culture in different market situations and cultures.
Career paths are designed to We take great pride in our provide the right balance of operational and strategic experiences, and people and our culture.
developing and mature market experiences.
Our people are highly mobile, thrive in taking on tough challenges, and have a winning mentality.
Gender diversity Stretching performance based rewards The percentages of female members in the Groups director, senior manager Our reward system is designed to attract and inspire the high achievement and all employee populations at 31 December 2014 were 17%, 19% and talent base which we seek.
Competitive base salaries are augmented by 42% respectively.
The Group has designated the members of its Top40 significant opportunities for short and long-term incentives, which are and Top400 populations as RBs senior managers for the purposes of the set to deliver outstanding overall rewards when the Company or unit has gender split disclosure required by The Companies Act 2006.
Measures are simple, unambiguous and concrete.
Average managers, 365 were male and 86 female, and 21,255 of all employees performance results in low bonus pay-outs.
Top performance results in were male and 15,089 female.
There is a variance in total employee excellent rewards.
We believe this unique approach to rewards ensures the numbers from those reported in note 5 on page 86 in respect of seasonal right people are attracted to RB.
labour which varies significantly during the year and for which gender identifiers are not recorded.
Achievement focused environment We are right for those people who think big but then focus on doing rather It is the combination of great talent, diverse experiences around the world, than deliberating.
We look for people who want to make their mark and in an environment that positively rewards and reinforces success that change the game for themselves and our consumers.
generates a culture which differentiates us from the competition.
We dont care about hierarchy.
Ideas are valued and we promote lively Our trademark is to attract great people, give them a career packed discussion to establish the best path forward but once decided the collective with a truly global set of challenges and experiences, inspire them with spirit ensures everyone gets behind the decision.
Learning from experience stretching performance based rewards and nurture an achievement and each other is key and this is complemented with focused skills training.
focusedenvironment where winning is critical.
We know that having the right strategy is not enough.
Our strategy A globally experienced leadership becomes real when it is executed with excellence, this is why our culture It is no accident that our Executive Committee EC is made up of seven is central to our outperformance.
We live our values of Achievement, different nationalities, and the EC members who are leaders of our Areas Ownership, Entrepreneurship and Partnership.
We encourage people to and Categories have all experienced assignments in four or more countries take ownership of their businesses and behave like Shareholders.
Our during their RB career.
Indeed, it is our way of life to develop leaders compensation approach and industry leading share ownership requirement through a series of challenging and different international experiences encourages our people to think, behave and act as Shareholders and treat across the spectrum from the most strategic to the most operational roles.
We are confident that those who consistently succeed in these challenges become well rounded global leaders of distinction.
The collective success The combination of great mobile talent, distinctive rewards and an diverse global experiences open fast paced environment has enabled RB to consistently deliver Our Top400 executives are comprised of 47 nationalities and 69% of our market beating results.
We believe our people and culture are the critical Groups General Manager, Marketing and Sales leaders are working outside components for enabling this success.
of their country of origin in assignments designed to develop their abilities The right values Share ownership requirement for top management Achievement Entrepreneurship We dont just aim Daring to be 1 high, we strive for different, taking 169.8m outperformance.
Ownership Partnership Nationalities Treat the Leveraging in Top400 management Company as if it relationships for were your own.
47 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 18
