BUSINESS REVIEW 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility 1.
Our unique contributions Corporate responsibility ensures We focus on areas where we can make a positive impact on society good management of risks and through our unique knowledge, resources, and skills including universal sustainable access to information, advance of science opportunities, helps us attract and health, protection of society and promotion of the rule of law and justice.
andretain the best people, and scientific, Technical & Medical strengthens our corporate Elsevier, the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical and medical information, plays an important role in advancing human reputation.
It means performing welfare and economic progress through its science and health information, which spurs innovation and enables critical decision tothe highest commercial and making.
To broaden access to its content, Elsevier supports programmes where resources are often scarce.
Among them is ethical standards and channelling Research4Life, a partnership with United Nations agencies and other publishers: we provide core and cutting-edge scientific our knowledge and strengths, information to researchers in more than 100 developing countries.
As a founding partner, we contribute over a quarter of the material asglobal leaders in our industries, available in Research4Life, encompassing all ScienceDirect content, including more than 3,000 Elsevier journals and nearly tomake a difference to society.
In 2014, there were more than 3.9m Research4Life article downloads from ScienceDirect.
In the year, Elsevier Consistent engagement with stakeholders, including collaborated with the World Bank to examine research trends shareholders, employees, governments and communities where across Africa to help countries understand how toinvest in we operate, helps us determine material corporate responsibility science, technology, engineering and mathematics research in issues.
The Boards of Directors, senior management and the order to advance competitiveness, independence andcooperation.
Corporate Responsibility Forum oversee corresponding The findings show that while international collaboration is high, objectives and monitor performance against them.
more engagement among African countries will benefit the continentoverall.
We concentrate on the contributions we make as a business Risk & Business Information and on good management of the material areas that affect Risk & Business Information tools and resources help protect allcompanies: society.
During the year, it enhanced its eCrash solution, which aids law enforcement professionals by automating vehicle crash 1.
Our unique contributions reporting from initial data capture to report distribution.
Governance the 2014 acquisition of Coplogic, eCrash now has a citizen incident reporting capability, eliminating the need to dispatch ofcers to 3.
This will allow forces to allocate resources to 4.
Customers more serious issues, potentially saving lives more US law enforcement ofcers died in trafc-related accidents than from 5.
Risk & Business Information employees created 6.
Supply chain the Automated Delivery of Alerts on Missing Children ADAM programme, which assists in the safe recovery of missing 7.
Since launching in 2000, 142 children have been located, including three in 2014.
It also uses the power of its brands to aid communities.
In 2014, to help young farmers, the business units Farmers Weekly title hosted its annual business event, Fertile Minds.
150 farmers in the early stages of their careers heard presentations by entrepreneurs and industry experts on jobs, wages, benets, work load and also had the chance to address theUKs Farming Minister.
indd 38 06 03 2015 08:52 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 39 PRIORITISING ACCESSIBILITY AT SCIENCEDIRECT, THE WORLDS LARGEST SCIENTIFIC DATABASE Investment in accessibility at ScienceDirect Elseviers full text scientific database, with articles from 10 more than 2,500 active journals and chapters from nearly 20,000 books Universities makes it possible for customers with disabilities to access content more quickly and easily.
ARE PART OF ELSEVIER Over the last three years, Elsevier has ACCESSIBILITY collaborated with ten university leaders in COLLABORATION assistive technology and accessibility to GROUP translate best practice into improvements of its agship product, ScienceDirect.
Theresult is improved visibility for all users.
Among resulting upgrades are fewer links on search results and journal home pages, making it simpler for those using screen readers to load, navigate and understand the relevant pages.
There are also ARIA landmarks allowing screen readers to bring up main page regions enhanced to help users understand page composition and facilitate skipping to key sections.
In a survey undertaken by the Publishers Accessibility Action Group released in 2014, Elsevier was judged to have the broadest range of tests encompassing screenreaders, keyboard only operation, and screen enlargement and was also cited for providing captions for all images.
University of California, Berkeley, one of the participating universities THE WAY WE DEVELOP SCIENCEDIRECT DEMONSTRATES THAT WE ARE SERIOUS ABOUT MAKING OUR PRODUCTS ACCESSIBLE FOR EVERYONE REGARDLESS OF ABILITY.
Ammy Vogtlnder Vice President, ScienceDirect Product Management, Elsevier Lucy Greco, a member of the Elsevier Accessibility Collaboration Group who isvisually impaired, demonstrates the accessibility features of ScienceDirect, atour 2014 CR Forum Stakeholder Session 94118 Reed AR p037-047.
indd 39 06 03 2015 08:52 BUSINESS REVIEW 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Legal 2014 OBJECTIVES Progress LexisNexis Legal & Professional promotes justice through its Partner with United Nations Steering group formed: products and services.
In 2014, it partnered with the UK National Global Compact to rene global consultation on Archives on Big Data for Law to provide new open data, tools and and launch stakeholder framework under way research methodologies to more easily maintain and interpret consultation on Business for vast amounts of current legislation.
It launched a free iPhone app, Shared case studies the Rule of Law My Legal Places, which locates UK police stations, courts, citizen highlighting our support advice bureaus and community legal ofces to support access to for the rule of law as a justice.
It also released Dressed to Kill, a report examining the foundation for an cotton industry and human trafcking undertaken in conjunction example hub with STOP THE TRAFFIK.
The report measures media coverage of Develop media and or Media partnership with a both fashion and human trafcking to highlight key issues and academic partnership to UK national newspaper ways participants in the global cotton supply chain are working to further awareness and New links with university prevent trafcking through campaign-driven community action.
engagement with the hydrologic science Environmental Challenge Exhibitions network Reed Exhibitions trade shows provide platforms for supporting Collaboration with Oxfam to Supporting community our corporate responsibility focus areas.
At the start of 2014, advance Raising Her Voice discussion groups with Comic Con New York, which attracted 151,000 attendees, womens rights programme health, water, sanitation, joinedthe Comic Book Legal Defense Fund, a non-profit inNepal education and forestry organisation protecting the rights of comics artists, publishers, use content retailers, librarians and fans.
During the year, to support the development of the event management industry in China, Pro bono support for launched a new annual scholarship programme benefitting 50 other projects including university students studying relevant subjects.
Its South African Action4Justice platform ofce won a 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Award from 2015 OBJECTIVES Media 24 for its support of indigenous communities.
Support the development and release of Business for the Across the Group Rule of Law framework In 2014, we helped advance Business for the Rule of Law, a global initiative led by the UN Global Compact with the support of other Power of Research: five-year Environmental Challenge organisations including the Atlantic Council, theWorld Justice collaboration project Project and the International Chamber of Commerce.
Key Big Data for Good: explore project to find missing children developments in the year include the creation of aSteering Group inEurope and the start of international consultation on aformal framework to be launched in 2015 focused on actions, practical examples and interactive technology to promote corporate support for the rule of law around the world.
During the year we began working with Oxfam on Raising Her Voice to strengthen womens rights in Nepal.
We have supported efforts to develop 90 community discussion groups across districts in the countrys midwest region.
The groups aim to empower women, helping them develop action plans to address personal, family and community challenges, while training for men aims to increase awareness of gender equality.
We are providing access tocontent in health, water, sanitation, education and forestry use.
Our partnership has also broadened to include assistance with Oxfams Action4Justice project, an online legal information platform to facilitate cases that promote positive social change, incollaboration with Greenpeace, Transparency International andAvocats Sans Frontires.
indd 40 06 03 2015 08:52 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 41 2014 OBJECTIVES Progress 2.
Governance Implement updated corporate Operating and The Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct the Code is governance policies Governance Principles disseminated to every employee and sets the standards for our reviewed by corporate and individual conduct.
The Code has been updated for cross-functional team release during the first half of 2015.
The revised Code describes Conduct a review and refresh Compliance Committee our social media policy and includes learning aids, increased of the Groups Code of Ethics review completed, with interactivity and streamlined wording.
Among other topics, the and Business Conduct Board review pending Code addresses fair competition, anti-bribery, conicts of interest, employment practices, data protection and appropriate use of Enhancements include company property and information.
It also encourages reporting of streamlined language: violations with an anonymous reporting option and prohibits reference to social retaliation.
It makes clear our commitment to human rights, media: and more incorporating the principles of the United Nations Global Compact learning aids and UNGC.
In accordance with the UNs Guiding Principles on interactivity Business and Human Rights, we have considered where and how Evaluate the Companys Export Designees appointed we operate and have concluded that there is low human rights risk and Trade Controls Policy and foreach business: in our direct employment activities for more information on compliance efforts strengthening controls human rights see Supply Chain.
asappropriate All employees complete training on the Code, as part of their new Global policy updated for hire induction and at regular intervals, to ensure their issuance in early 2015 understanding and acknowledgement of the Code.
In 2014, NYSE Governance Services ranked our Code among the top 10% of more 2015 OBJECTIVES than 2,500 codes it has evaluated.
Establish common approach to development and We also provide mandatory online training on anti-bribery, management of corporate policies competition laws, protecting data and preventing workplace New communication campaigns to supplement formal harassment, supplemented by in-person training for higher-risk compliance training roles.
We routinely issue computer-based training on these same Continue to enhance trade sanctions and export controls topics to new employees.
We achieve 100% completion ratesfor all compliance procedures and tools courses within four months of issuance.
In 2014, we remained diligent in our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable bribery laws.
We improved processes to ensure compliance with sanctions laws and are updating relevant policy and compliance tools.
We also released new Privacy Principles setting out our approach to data protection andprivacy.
As a signatory to the UNGC and its principles, encompassing labour, environment, anti-corruption, as well as human rights, we demonstrated leadership in 2014 by serving on the UNGC Advisory Group for the UK and the UNGC Supply Chain and Caring for Climate Advisory Groups.
We were also on the board of the Alliancefor Water Stewardship.
UNGC peers judged our 2014 Communication on Progress, required of signatories each year, tohave attained Advanced Level.
In the year, we served on the UNSecretary Generals legal taskforce helping to consider post-2015 sustainable development goals.
indd 41 06 03 2015 08:52 BUSINESS REVIEW 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In the US, where we have our largest concentration of employees, 3.
People the REACH programme promotes workplace wellbeing through Our 28,500 people are our strength.
Our workforce is 53% female health screenings, online assessments, stress awareness and 47% male, with an average length of service of eight years.
training and weight loss and smoking cessation courses, with There were 44% female and 56% male managers, and 29% female financial incentives for participation.
In 2014, we continued our US and 71% male senior operational managers.
health coach programme which provides personalised support to all staff.
1,530 employees worked with a coach to help with issues Female Male related to diet, exercise and smoking: 3,071 calls were made to Board of directors 3 30% 7 70% CareConnect, our health concierge service.
Senior operational Our annual re:t2win global wellbeing competition encourages 121 29% 300 71% managers employees to establish tness teams to compete for cash prizes All employees 15,100 53% 13,400 47% for charities of their choice.
Across the Group, 79 teams took part and ran, walked, cycled and swam a total of 89,195 miles Senior operational managers are dened as those managers up to and including 143,545 kilometres, with a 22% increase in the number of three reporting lines from the CEO participants over 2013.
Full time equivalent 2014 OBJECTIVES Progress The Groups Nominations Committee considers the knowledge, Sign up to the UN Womens Signed experience and background of individual Board Directors.
At year Empowerment Principles: end 2014, women made up 30% of the members of the Reed Tool created to measure review practice relative to Elsevier NV Board and 22% of the members of the Reed Elsevier business alignment: Principles PLC Board.
The two Executive Directors on the Board are male.
reviews under way The Groups Diversity and Inclusion D&I Statement Develop inclusive leadership Heads of talent engaged www.
com go Diversity, articulates our commitment as a core management Review of Business to a diverse workforce and environment that respects individuals competency Leadership and their contributions, regardless of gender, race or other Programme syllabus to characteristics.
Our D&I Strategy is focused on translating the identify inclusive Statement into practical action.
Among its commitments is leadership themes maintaining a D&I Advisory Group composed of a senior business 10% increase in re:t2win 22% increase in and HR leader from each business unit, supported by a broader participants employees participating D&I Working Group.
We encourage both afnity groups, such as womens forums, which provide support and mentoring, and 2015 OBJECTIVES community involvement.
Map internal practice against the UN Womens During 2014, we took steps to develop inclusive leadership as a Empowerment Principles core management competency engaging our heads of talent to Embed inclusive leadership as a core management ensure it is incorporated in manager training.
We reviewed our competency Business Leadership Programme course syllabus for up and coming leaders to ensure it contains relevant themes.
In the year, Targeted wellness campaign focused on avoiding managing we joined Business in the Communitys Opportunity Now initiative diabetes to tap into additional D&I expertise, shared with our D&I networks.
In 2014, CEO Erik Engstrom signed the Womens Empowerment Principles, a UN Global Compact and UN Women initiative, which aim to help companies empower women and promote gender equality.
In the year, we created a template for reviewing our existing practices relative to the Principles.
Our employees have the right to a healthy and safe workplace as outlined in the Groups Global Health and Safety Policy.
We concentrate on areas of greatest risk, for example, warehouses, events and exhibitions.
However, as a primarily ofce-based company, our key impact areas are manual handling, slips, trips and falls.
To reduce our severity rate lost days per 200,000 hours worked, we conduct risk assessments, and work with a third party in the US to assign a nurse case manager to each complex or severe claim.
The number of lost time reportable cases decreased in the year 23 in 2014 vs 31 in 2013.
indd 42 06 03 2015 08:52 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 43 The Group Environmental Challenge advances sustainable access to safe water ENVIRONMENTAL and sanitation where it is presently at risk.
Projects must be innovative, scalable, involve local communities, and address CHALLENGE: issues such as health, education and non-discrimination.
ADVANCING ACCESS The $50,000 2014 first prize winner was Sustainable Sanitation Design Susan Design, an NGO which will bring TO SAFE WATER 10,000 households in Uganda its low-cost, unisex urinal featuring a safe organic fertiliser recovery system.
AND SANITATION The $25,000 2014 second prize winner was Ecoltro, a social enterprise company working to provide thousands of families in Guatemala with new ceramic disk lters THE GROUP PRIZE WILL ALLOW US that remove bacteria and other harmful TO SCALE AND REACH THOUSANDS agents from potable water.
The $15,000 WASH Alliance prize winner was the Stanford Program on Water, Philip Wilson Health and Development which will install Ecoltro, second prize winner, 2014 automated chlorine dosing systems at Reed Elsevier Environmental Challenge shared water points in Bangladesh used by 2,000 families.
The WASH Alliance is a consortium of six Dutch NGOs promoting hygienic use of sustainable water and sanitation.
$330,000 awarded over the past four years Susan Design supported Ugandan farmer and his sustainably fertilised pineapple eld 94118 Reed AR p037-047.
indd 43 06 03 2015 08:53 BUSINESS REVIEW 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Progress 2014 OBJECTIVES 4.
Customers Roll out translations of the Editorial Policy translated In 2014, we surveyed over 450,000 customers through Net Groups Editorial Policy: launch into 12 languages: Promoter Score measuring customer loyalty and business related Data Quality Standards Editorial Policy for dashboard programmes.
This allows us to deepen our Suppliers created and understanding of their needs and further drives forward a rolled out customer-centric culture across the Group.
Results, reviewed by Launched the Groups the CEO and senior operational managers and communicated to Quality First Principles staff, highlight where we are doing well and where we must do with global email from better.
To aid colleagues who work with customers, during the Henry Udow, Chief Legal year we continued to incorporate CR into customer-facing staff Officer and Company training with outreach to key sales and marketing teams.
We Secretary updated our intranet resource, CR as a Sales Tool: created a CR fast facts document distributed across the business: and Create CR blueprint to help CR fast facts document developed new CR Sales Academy content.
sales staff enhance their created and promoted customer conversations: put across the company In the year, we translated the Groups Editorial Policy into 12 CR on the agenda at five sales languages.
The Policy commits us to producing information of CR as a Sales Tool conferences the highest quality and encompasses, among other key issues, sessions delivered to producing content that is accurate, clear, timely, avoids bias, more than five sales teams defamation, conict of interest, plagiarism and makes a across the Group distinction between editorial and advertising.
In 2014, we also Embed Accessibility Policy and Accessibility Policy created and rolled out an Editorial Policy for Suppliers and conduct accessibility review of launched in January by launched Quality First Principles with a message to all at least 10 key product sites Kumsal Bayazit, Chief employees from the Chief Legal officer and Company Secretary.
Strategy Officer More than 100 employees and other stakeholders helped develop the Principles, and a new Quality First Working Group 33 product sites has been formed.
reviewed We are committed to improving access to our products and 2015 OBJECTIVES services for all users, regardless of physical ability.
Our Conduct 10 Quality First Principles risk assessments Accessibility Policy developed in 2013 to lead the industry in Customer engagement: sharing our CR expertise providing accessibility solutions to customers with products that webinarseries are operable, understandable and robust was disseminated to all employees by the Chief Strategy officer at the start of 2014.
In Develop baseline tool to determine accessibility the year, 33 key product sites were reviewed, and accessibility requirements for new and existing sites challenges and opportunities were the theme of the 2014 CR Forum Stakeholder session: participants included a corporate peer responsible for accessibility, a member of Elseviers Accessibility and Usability Collaboration Group, who herself is a blind user, the founder of a disability NGO and the leader of our Accessibility Working Group.
The session was webcast to a live audience and made available on the corporate intranet for all employees.
In 2014, members of the Accessibility Working Group logged over 100 accessibility projects and Elseviers Global Books Digital Archive fullled more than 4,500 disability requests, 60% of them through AccessText.
org, a service it helped establish.
indd 44 06 03 2015 08:53 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 45 5.
Supply chain RE Cares, our global community programme, promotes education We require our suppliers to meet the high standards we set for for disadvantaged young people that advances one or more of our ourselves.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates adherence to unique contributions as a business, and allows staff up to two all laws and best practice in areas such as human rights, labour days paid leave per year for their own community work.
Through our Socially Responsible Supplier donated 3.4m incash including through matching gifts and the SRS database, in 2014, we tracked 499 critical, preferred and equivalent of 2.6m in products, services and staff time in 2014. strategic suppliers, and those we deem high risk according to the 32% of employees were engaged in volunteering through RE Carnstone Supplier Risk Tool developed for the Group which Cares and we reached nearly 34,000 disadvantaged young people incorporates eight indicators, including human trafcking through time, in-kind and cash donations.
In the year, we expanded information from the US State Department and Environmental our RE Cares Champions network with 21 new Champions 190 in Performance Index results produced by Yale and Columbia total covering 19 ofces: we also created an induction programme universities.
The tracking list changes year-on-year based on the to help them plan activities and engage staff.
In 2014, we increased number of suppliers we do business with who meet the required volunteering in company time by 6%.
Westarted 2014 with 57% of suppliers on the SRS tracking list as signatories to the Supplier Code and reached 84% by year Each September, we hold RE Cares Month to celebrate our end 2% of the total are suppliers which have provided internal community activities and in 2014, over 50% of the Groups codes, which we believe to be a stringent as our own, in lieu.
locations around the world took part.
Among them, LexisNexis Wehave embedded signing the Supplier Code into our e-sourcing Legal & Professional in New York helped organise a childrens tool as a criterion for doing business with us, and have an library for Books for Kids, while their counterparts in South Africa additional 1,885 supplier signatories.
engaged senior leaders in cycling over 200km to raise funds for three charities in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town.
Specialist supply chain auditors, Intertek, undertook 56 external audits of high-risk suppliers, using their comprehensive During RE Cares Month, we held our annual global book drive Workplace Conditions Assessment template.
Any incidence of yielding nearly 11,000 books for local and developing world non-compliance identied in the audit process triggers a readers, and announced the winners of the fourth Recognising corrective action plan agreed with the supplier, with remediation Those Who Care Awards to highlight the contributions to RE Cares required on all issues.
of eight individuals and four RE Cares teams.
Individual winners from across the business travelled to Cameroon with Book Aid We implemented our new US Supplier Diversity programme International, a charity partner for more than 10 years, which in2014, which invites tenders from diverse suppliers, and all provides books and library support services to 12 countries in relevant staff received training.
The programme provides sub-Saharan Africa.
The trip was led by Youngsuk YS Chi, suppliers with feedback after competitive bidding and RELXGroup Director of Corporate Affairs.
Among the teams opportunities for development, while an improved diverse winning forexceptional community engagement were Risk & supplier tracking system is helping us understand how we Business Information Skokie, Illinois which organised 29 aredoing in this area.
volunteer programmes over one year and Reed Exhibitions Norwalk, Connecticut which volunteered more than 500 hours 2014 OBJECTIVES Progress inthe sameperiod.
Supplier Code of Conduct Incorporated into nearly incorporated into terms and 28,000 purchase orders, 2014 OBJECTIVES Progress conditions of purchase orders valued at over $500m Increase use of two days 6% increase achieved Expand use of new Workplace 56 Workplace volunteering by 10% Conditions Assessment Conditions Assessment Expand RE Cares Champions 21 new Champions tooltoenhance high-risk audits completed network and create new recruited supplier audits induction programme Induction programme Implement new US Supplier Programme launched developed with new Diversity programme encompassing internal tools including an training for procurement introductory webinar staff and handbook Number of opportunities and business awarded 2015 OBJECTIVES tracked 60% of locations taking part in RE Cares Month Develop RE Cares impact measurement tool 2015 OBJECTIVES Increase core suppliers as signatories to the Code Enhance external Workplace Conditions Assessment tool with external review of Corrective Action Plan fulfilment Advance US Supplier Diversity and Inclusion programme 94118 Reed AR p037-047.
indd 45 06 03 2015 08:53 BUSINESS REVIEW 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2014 OBJECTIVES Progress 7.
Environment 45% of electricity from Goal achieved: renewable Our environmental targets reect our performance and focus renewable energy or energy certificates areas and can be found, along with full details, in the 2014 Renewable Energy Certicates purchased through Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
70% of key locations to 72% achieved 81 locations In 2014, we purchased 46% of our electricity from renewable achieve five or more Group designated green vs 77 energy and renewable energy certicates, and were ranked Environmental Standards in2013 among the top FTSE 350 companies for disclosure in the 2014 Expand Green Heroes New Green Heroes CDPLeadership Index, representing 767 investors with assets programme recognising award programme with of$92,000bn.
The Group received an Agrade in CDPs Global employee action individual and Green Performance Leadership Index.
Team winners Our Environmental Champions network, employee-led Green 2015 OBJECTIVES Teams, and engagement through networks such as Publishers database for Responsible Ethical Paper Sourcing, inform how Consultation on new environmental targets with weaddress our environmental impacts.
Our Environmental key stakeholders Standards programme sets benchmark performance levels and 50% of electricity from renewable energy or Renewable inspires green competition among ofces.
In 2014, 81 sites 72% of Energy Certificates key locations achieved five or more standards and attained green 75% of key locations to achieve five or more Group status.
The Chief Financial officer wrote to all staff recognising Environmental Standards their achievements on World Environment Day and also identied Green Heroes across the company, nominated by their peers for their environmental efforts.
New in 2014, Green Teams submitted environmental project ideas to engage staff: winners received funding to carry out their plans.
The overall winner of the individual category chose to join a research expedition with Earthwatchin Malawi.
We have a positive environmental impact through our environmental publications and services which spread good practice, encourage debate and aid researchers and decision makers.
The most recent results from independent Market Analysis System show our share of citations in environmental science represented 40% of the total market, and 79% in energy and fuels.
In the year, we continued to map the range of our environmental products and services, covering some 400products on areas such as ocean and coastal management, forestry, environmental law and waste management, and trade shows on environmental engineering, renewable energy andwater.
indd 46 10 03 2015 07:19 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 47 TARGETS 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Intensity ratio Target Achievement Absolute performance Absolute revenue m Focus area Key performance indicators 20102015 to date 2014 variance 2013 2014 variance 2013 Climate Scope 1 intensity direct -20% -29% change emissions Achieved Scope 1 direct 8,932 -23% 11,602 1.55 -20% 1.92 emissions tCO e Scope 2 intensity -10% -22% 2 gross electricity and heat Achieved Scope 2 gross 109,129 -4% 113,691 18.90 0% 18.84 electricity and Energy Ofce energy use intensity -20% -26% heat tCO e Achieved 2 Percentage of electricity from 50% 46% Total energy 222,658 -7% 239,187 38.57 -3% 39.63 renewables or Renewable Under way MWh Energy Certicates Ofce energy 109,387 -9% 120,381 18.95 -5% 19.95 Average data centre Power 1.69 1.65 MWh Usage Effectiveness PUE Achieved 3 Water m 343,661 -14% 401,788 59.53 -11% 66.58 Water Percentage of key locations 100% 90% 3 Waste diverted 70% 1%pt 69% 1.19 1% 1.18 achieving 10 m of water per Under way from landll % person per year Production 52,163 6% 49,410 9.04 10% 8.19 Waste Waste diverted from landll 75% 70% paper t Under way Intensity metric shows tonnes of waste diverted from landll m revenue We have reported on all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report, Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our combined financial statement.
We have included emissions from the operating companies within the combined businesses.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and the data has been assured by anindependent third party, EY.
Details on methodology and the assurance statement can be viewed in the 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
2014 Recognition: Business in the Community Dow Jones Sustainability CDP Indexes: Green Power Leader, US EPA CR Index Indices Global Climate Performance included included Leadership Index: Grade A Disclosure Leadership Index FTSE4Good Index Natural Capital Leaders Carbon Clear FTSE 100 ECPI Indices included Index rankings included included Top 20 Oekom UK National Business STOXX Global ESG Leaders Four Euronext Vigeo indices First in media sector Awards Indices UK 20 Eurozone 120 Sustainability Award included Benelux 20 Europe 120 nalist THE FULL 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT IS AVAILABLE AT WWW.
