Corporate responsibility As a business that works across more than 2,200 locations, we have a clear responsibility to make a strong and positive contribution for the local communities of which we are a part.
We specifically look to work with organisations Environment focused on health, education and skills We help our customers control both their costs development, particularly as they relate to and carbon emissions through more effective use entrepreneurship and business creation.
of space and reducing the need for travel by working closer to home.
We are also committed At the same time there is a clear business case to minimise our own impact on the environment.
for such local engagement given our position We are aware that as our business continues to within the local economy for example with grow with the opening and acquisition of more recruitment and purchasing.
This helps improve centres, our related environmental impact will the local business environment, encouraging increase.
This growth will inevitably generate others to come to the area, some of which may more carbon emissions and carbon charges decide to use Regus.
The deeper our engagement which we have to manage and report under the across multiple levels, the greater this effect.
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme in the UK.
Our We strive to build relationships with all of our efforts in reducing our carbon emissions continue stakeholders team members, customers, and we are pleased to report a negligible increase shareholders, property brokers, landlords, 0.67% from last year in total carbon emissions suppliers and the local communities we are from our increased building portfolio.
The a part of encouraging each stakeholder to Governments CRC charges for the coming year consider the needs of others and involve are increasing by some 36% as the cost of carbon themselves in the programmes that are in place.
allowances increase from 12 per tonne to 16.40 per tonne.
With our continued expansion, we will All of our community and charitable activities be undertaking a careful review of our portfolio to take into account the international context with try and ensure our carbon charges and related an understanding that cultural diversity energy costs are as low as possible.
represents varying perceptions and needs across the globe.
Our activities are tailored to In 2009, through our energy and carbon policy, reflect this diverse environment and ensure that we set out to achieve a 50% reduction in our CO 2 they are culturally, socially, politically and emissions in the UK by 2020 based on our 2007 economically adequate and do not negatively base year.
Excellent progress was being made.
impact the Company or community in the area.
Nonetheless, our business is changing and expanding and so we will review this target Community carefully in 2015 to ensure its appropriateness Regus team members have enthusiastically and, if necessary, revise it accordingly.
supported local charities through fundraising, volunteering, donations of gifts in-kind, For the last four years we have been voluntary networking events, mentoring and work participants of the Carbon Disclosure Project.
experience support, and awareness raising We are pleased to report that for the current year initiatives.
In total more than 150,000 was raised 2014 we achieved our highest score to date and used to support 132 projects for 100 charities.
with an 86% disclosure score and performance This is a significant increase on our activity in 2013. band B rating.
Further detail is provided in the table below.
As a global organisation we work to spread environmental best practices across our 2014 2013 network.
In addition to projects that have Countries with 38 20 reduced paper usage and target increased community recycling, our teams are continuing to work hard engagement at implementing our carbon reducing policies activity and improving the energy efficiency of each Projects 132 54 centre.
Through our ongoing maintenance Charities 100 78 programme, many small but related carbon supported saving projects are undertaken, for example, upgrading of controls: changing to more Donations made 155,328 80,500 efficient low energy lighting: automating Supported by the business, and together with our lighting systems by adding presence detection stakeholders, they have achieved great things.
to the switching: and upgrading to more efficient chillers and pumps.
This ongoing strategy of carefully selecting efficient equipment is helping to reduce our environmental impact further.
24 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Sightsavers MEA Kenya, Pakistan, Christmas boxes Senegal, Tanzania, United Kingdom Uganda, Zambia For the second year in a row our UK Regus centre teams actively fundraised in business transformed its 300 locations into support of the local Sightsavers branch collection points for Operation Christmas which works to combat sight loss in their Child run by Samaritans Purse.
Their enthusiastic support encourages people to fill a shoebox with included holding bake sales, football gifts for needy and vulnerable children match screenings and in-centre activities.
Our teams, customers In addition, each centre held a charitable and local communities responded networking event inviting their clients to magnificently and more than 2,500 boxes meet the charity programme directors to were collected.
Thanks to them, many hear more about the amazing, life saving thousands of children who otherwise work that they do.
As a result of our wouldnt have received any presents this combined efforts 834 families will be Christmas knew they werent forgotten.
protected from river blindness for a wholeyear.
Flood Relief Indonesia In January heavy rains brought flooding to many areas of Jakarta, Indonesia and the surrounding cities.
More than 38,000 people were evacuated from their homes, suffering from a lack of shelter, food, clean drinking water and other essential needs.
The eight centre teams in the local area organised a collection of these necessary items in their centres for the victims.
Together with the collections, Regus volunteers joined forces with the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies to distribute the donations throughout East Jakarta, one of the worst affected areas.
Susan G Komen Racing for the Cure Roten Nasen Austria US & Canada Roten Nasen is a charity which brings joy to the lives of those sick in hospital by For the fifth year running the Regus Life Savers Team sending in clown doctors.
Our business participated in the Race for the Cure to raise awareness and in Austria sponsored the 2014 event and funds for Susan G. Komen.
The charity strives to end breast several colleagues and their clients took cancer in the U. S. 75% of funds raised for this charity support part in a fun run dressed in clown noses vital breast health services, with the remaining 25% being put and held stalls with activities for children.
towards supporting national research to find a cure.
Over the last four years the team has raised more than US$175,000.
