Our customers Businesses come to Regus because they want to focus on their business rather than where they run it from.
They stay because we provide the very best service at a competitive price, helping them be more successful.
We are committed to supporting our customers At the heart of our business are our centre based with the right workplace at the right price in the teams dedicated, hard-working, passionate right location.
Whether that is an entrepreneur people that help make sure that our customers needing a prestigious address to launch their success is our success.
We make significant business, a corporate with a large sales team investments in training and development which needing to set up an office fast or a travelling equips our front-line teams with the right skills.
CEO needing a place to touchdown for an hour in between meetings, we have shaped our products to meet these demands.
Dell With Regus I have one point of contact Supporting Supporting a and one form of contract for hundreds of cities.
Its simple, cost-effective and does individual workers distributed not require a long-term commitment that either hinders growth or wastes money on sales team Dell faced a typical chicken-and-egg unnecessary space.
It makes setting up in challenge when it decided to grow its a new country risk and hassle free.
On the one hand, it Toshiba Europe Gmbh TEG is a unit of the Wolfgang Gollub, was entering a small, expanding market Japanese technology conglomerate with Senior manager, administration that didnt warrant the risk of a traditional responsibility for personal computer and general affairs, TEG office with a long-term contract.
On the electronic products including notebook other, it had to show it was willing to pcs, and other smart products.
Based in invest in the area if its sales were to gain Nuess in Germany, the company covers a traction.
Since it already had a contract geographical spread from Portugal to with Regus, Dell gave one of its account Poland, and from Finland to Istanbul.
TEG executives a Virtual Office Plus.
This employs over 800 people and has annual provided the employee with a great sales of more than 1.7 billion.
address to build up credibility with his TEG typically enters new countries with a corporate customers and a place to meet handful of sales employees.
is to find them suitable, scalable and Working with Regus lends me credibility cost-efficient places to work.
They have and creates added value.
My customers used Regus in this way to establish feel more secure that Dell is here to stay operations in Denmark, Finland, Norway, and wants to establish a relationship and Hungary, Poland and South Africa.
It makes them feel we are growing.
6 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Supporting Supporting new approaches entrepreneurs to working Onsight Films is a boutique film studio based in Sydneys Western Suburbs.
We have found Regus to provide our staff the Company founders Marlon Simmons and flexibility they require in the workplace Redgie Duquilla were working from home, environment, enabling us to make best use of but saw an opportunity to build their office space, reduce our capital expenditure business.
Regus was the perfect option for and encourage new ways of working.
them to present a professional business image and increase their productivity.
Aaron Parmar, Global Facilities Manager, They use Regus location in Blacktown as a Accession ACISION main base and Regus' other 25 Sydney locations as required.
A help in implementing new ways of working and a tool for managing part of our real estate We deal with a diverse range of clients so differently.
We do not need to invest in setting we have decided to base ourselves in our up a new office to have a presence in a locality local Regus centre.
Working close to for just the right amount of space and time.
A home saves us time and increases flexible framework agreement contributes to productivity and the added benefit of the productivity of our employees.
"Regus means that when necessary, we can meet our clients at a range of Robert Ling, Real Estate Manager, locations across Greater Sydney. """
GETRONICS Services UK Limited Marlon Simmons, Founder, Onsight Films Tennessee, North Carolina, and Texas and Supporting the is currently looking into other locations.
Each time one of its existing fixed leases transition from fixed becomes due, MMI looks for Regus workspace in that location.
to flexible working With Regus, we only pay for the space we need, so that is very helpful in terms of With branches across 30 states, Money cost.
And the all-in costs are also an Management International MMI is the important factor.
For example, telecoms USAs largest nonprofit, full-service credit and IT are all in place at Regus, so we counselling agency.
dont have to pay for connectivity.
And at Its branches have traditionally been leased Regus we dont have to pay extra for but the inherent inflexibility was impacting cleaning and security, so we do see cost MMIs ability to move quickly to new savings from using Regus.
The locations with demographics requiring their professional receptionist staff is a huge counselling services.
MMI turned to Regus advantage to us too, it would not be cost for help in restructuring how it organised its effective for MMI to have receptionists branch network.
In December 2012, MMI within our branch locations, having them opened its first Regus-based location in place as part of our overall cost is very branch office in Las Vegas, NV and since advantageous.
then has opened Regus offices in New York, Jim Triggs, Senior Vice President, Arizona, California, South Carolina, Atlanta, Money Management International Pennsylvania, Florida, Oregon, Indiana, www.
