46 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility This past year we have sought to strengthen our CSR foundations and create a solid platform for the future.
We have written our first CSR strategy, and continued to expand our endeavours in our areas of control and inuence as part of our CSR activities, showing good progress.
We have increased our scope of data capture for waste and greenhouse gas emissions GHG.
A record number of apprentices are now in training and we have invested more than ever in staff development.
We have shown continued growth within the business, both in the building space we occupy and in the Ben Taylor number of employees, however we have still achieved an absolute Assistant Chief Executive reduction of waste to landll and a reduction of GHG emissions per hour produced.
We are pleased with the advancements we have made over this reporting period and will continue to strive to be recognised individually and collectively as leaders and contributors in our eld and community.
The areas in which we are uniquely placed to ensure this merger of business and 4USBUFHZ societal needs are: In order to continue to evolve our Resources and energy because our Education because we have built approach to CSR in a structured way, core products assist our customers strong relationships with schools we have developed a documented to improve their efficiencies and and universities, raised our prole CSR strategy, approved by our CSR thus reduce their impacts.
in the education sector, and committee and Board.
We recognise contributed to government policy to that the status quo is changing and ensure we continue to have access consequently we are proactively to skilled individuals.
addressing issues such as rising energy costs, constraints on emissions, nite resources, increasing water scarcity, the demand for greater transparency and skills shortages.
All these areas Community because we are a large Innovation because this is a core affect our business and customers and employer, we are uniquely placed to business driver at Renishaw we are responding with appropriate lend support to local charities and and will enable us to sustain our innovative ideas and programmes community groups.
manufacturing in a world where seeking to combine our business and resources are nite.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 47 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 0VS $43 UBSHFUT We recognise that to become a company that creates net value in its value chain we have to continue to build on our current solid foundations.
We have therefore developed our first set of public targets within a five-pillar approach to CSR which brings transparency to our future activities.
These targets will ensure we are able tomanage our impacts within our value chain and communities effectively.
BSLFUQMBDF 4VQQMZ DIBJO 1FPQMF Waste management Increase our Produce CSR 100% of key suppliers Expand health and plan by end of 2014 presence at guidance case to be invited to safety controls for all UK sites, and all chosen universities, studies for marketing attend a supplier and reporting to all manufacturing sites colleges and by end of calendar engagement day locations by end of by end of 2015 schools local to key year 2014 in 2015 calendar year 2014 Renishaw locations Investigate business Make CSR section Ensure suppliers Communication of case for investment Establish local of corporate website are audited CSR activities to in renewables charity sponsorship more prominent and as required be increased presence at key UK more relevant to through supplier 3% CO2 reduction Zero fatalities and sites and key global our business questionnaires against 2014 levels serious accidents sites by the end of by 2015, normalised Establish a baseline Update Group calendar year 2014 Expand health and by turnover for orders shipped Business Code safety controls to all to customer date in 2015 and audit 5% reduction of manufacturing sites in 2015 for compliance waste to landll by end of calendar against 2013 levels Develop a 100% of suppliers to year 2016 by end of 2014, for management target be notied of updated UK sites, with targets for orders shipped to Group Business for all manufacturing customer date using Code and supplier sites by end of 2015 the 2015 year as the questionnaire by end base year of calendar year 2014 Track CO2 footprint of product logistics to collate base year data by end of 2015 Develop CO management 2 target for product logistics using the 2015 year as the base year 48 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued male and 22 are female.
The total 4UBGG SFUFOUJPO 1FPQMF number of apprentices in training, We work hard to promote an excellent asat30thJune 2014, represents 3% working environment that encourages %JWFSTJUZ ofourtotal workforce.
our employees to develop their careers Renishaw is an equal opportunities at Renishaw.
Our UK staff turnover rate Proper consideration is given to employer, operating a strict nonat 5% is still signicantly lower than the applications for employment from discrimination policy.
We offer an UK manufacturing industry national disabled people who are employed, environment that actively promotes average of 8%.
where suitable, for appropriate innovation and progress within which vacancies.
Opportunities are given to individual talents can ourish.
To ensure we reward our employees employees who become disabled to loyalty and hard work we regularly hold Renishaw is also a global business continue in their employment or to be pay reviews and benchmark our salaries.
with more than 70 locations in over 32 trained for other positions.
We have a group performance-based countries, and therefore diversity is an bonus programme for all qualifying On 30th June 2014, we employed integral part of how we do business.
3,492people across the Group, an We acknowledge the benets it can increase of 257 since last year.
Of these, bring and our senior management group We also offer on-site tness suites, 2,699 77% are male and 793 23% comprises 26 nationalities.
appropriate exible working to are female.
There are 8directors on the encourage a good work-life balance, A common challenge in the engineering Board, consisting of seven males and subsidised restaurants at our key UK sector is to achieve a more even one female.
The senior management locations and a crche at our facility in balance between the genders and as group is made up of 48people, of Pune, India.
more women choose to study science which 45 94% are male and 3 6% and technical subjects it is hoped are female.
Renishaw regards its $PNNVOJDBUJPO BOE QBSUJDJQBUJPO that the number of female candidates senior management group to be the As a group that operates in a large for vacancies will increase.
In the Executive Board, the heads of each number of different territories across last two years we have employed 68 product division, sales territories and the globe, we recognise the need for young people for our apprenticeship manufacturing organisation who report good communication between sites, programme and a further 125 for directly into the Executive Board and the but also between management and ourgraduate programme, through directors of the subsidiary undertakings their teams.
To facilitate this we hold co-operation with numerous education of Renishaw.
Of these, 171 are where a Board member is present.
These provide information about Directors and senior managers from Renishaws product lines, global subsidiaries, group corporate services andmanufacturing services division.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 49 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 developments across the Group invested 300,000 in our apprenticeship whilst our first-year apprentice and give an opportunity for an open scheme, 100,000 on further education Eva Lily Fielding was named discussion with a member of the Board.
and 270,000 on our employee Outstanding Apprentice of the Year These are supported by presentations training programme.
in the Engineering & Manufacturing of the annual and half yearly financial category, and was also honoured as We have long held the view that by results by the Assistant Chief Executive the Gloucestershire Apprentice of investing in our future workforce we are at our larger locations, supplemented the Year across all categories.
At the able to acquire the necessary talent by video-conference presentations for Gloucestershire Women in Business to grow the business and mitigate the smaller remote sites.
Awards held in March, our fourth-year impacts of a general skills shortage, as apprentice Roxanne Pollard was named We continue to encourage our staff evidenced by the fact that we started as Apprentice ofthe Year.
to communicate any suggestions and our apprenticeship and sponsored ideas they may have, either to their student schemes in 1979 and 1984 VNBO SJHIUT direct management teams or the Board respectively.
This summer, some Renishaw is a supporter of the directly.
We also provide a Suggestion 105 2013 equivalent: 94 students Universal Declaration of Human Scheme to which staff can submit entered Renishaw for paid placements Rights and the core conventions of ideas.
We value these suggestions 60summer placements, 40 one-year the International Labour Organization.
and all are assessed for suitability for industrial placements and Through our Group Business Code adoption.
Awards are given for the 5 pre-university placements.
There are we state the minimum standards of best ideas received.
There is also an 105 craft and technical apprentices operation expected of our organisations, inventors award scheme for individuals currently in training 2013 equivalent: subsidiaries and employees.
This code who are named as inventors on patent 82 and 32 new starters confirmed for sets out our belief that all employees applications which are granted.
A further 68 new have the right to non-discriminatory graduates also started with Renishaw treatment and equal opportunities, 5SBJOJOH BOE EFWFMPQNFOU this summer 2013 equivalent: 55. to work in a safe and secure working We value our highly skilled workforce environment with a fair wage.
We also The quality of our apprenticeship and recognise that maintaining this is reject the use of compulsory, forced and graduate programmes is widely essential to the future of our business: and child labour.
In June 2014, at the as such we place a large emphasis and business partners who work to the Gloucestershire Apprenticeship on ensuring the Companys approved same high standards as us.
Awards, Renishaw was given the training programme continues.
award for Outstanding Contribution Throughout this financial year we have to Apprenticeships in Gloucestershire, Award-winning apprentice At the Gloucestershire Apprenticeship Awards, our first-year apprentice Eva Lily Fielding was named Outstanding Apprentice of the Year in the Engineering & Manufacturing category, and overall Gloucestershire Apprentice ofthe Year.
FEJB 50 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued expertise in areas as diverse as AM, $PNNVOJUZ ITsystems, exporting and human resource management, through As one of the largest employers in the participation in business conferences west of England, and with an increasing and roundtable discussions, and also number of sites in the UK and around the make a significant commitment to the world, we recognise the positive sponsorship of award programmes.
contribution that we can make to our local communities through our varied Senior managers, including Group interactions with local residents, Engineering Director, Geoff McFarland, businesses, schools and not-for-profit Assistant Chief Executive, Ben Taylor, organisations.
We continue to and Head of Communications, communicate a positive story about the ChrisPockett, are also regular speakers German handball team sponsored role played by science, engineering and at conferences and business community Renishaw GmbH sponsors the handball manufacturing to enhance the lives of the events.
In the past year this has included team HBW Balingen-Weilstetten, which general populace and the attractive keynote presentations on sustainable thisseason played in the German nature of a career within these sectors.
Renishaw sees this as vital to overcome growth and the Renishaw story.
negative perceptions about career During the past year we have become options in these areas and to ensure a a major sponsor of the Manufacturing strong pipeline of future talent, not just for Excellence MX Awards operated our own needs, but also for our wider by the UKs Institution of Mechanical supply chain and customer base.
Engineers IMechE, and continue to During the past year we have hosted support the sister MX programme in tour groups and given talks to a range Germany.
For both schemes, senior of organisations including primary and managers are members of the advisory secondary schools, universities and board.
In the past year, we have also colleges, business clubs and societies.
sponsored and helped judge a range of With an increasing prole we are also regional business award programmes, regularly asked to give interviews by for example, Ben Taylor is a judge Gloucester Rugby young player award national and local media on a range for the West of England Business Norma Tang, Company Secretary, presents of topics relating to manufacturing, Awards.
Recognising the importance the Renishaw-sponsored Young Player of the 3Dprinting and general business issues.
of apprenticeships, we supported both Season award to Elliott Stooke.
the regional Gloucestershire and Bristol We continue actively to support NBHF DPVSUFTZ PG MPVDFTUFS 3VHCZ Apprentice of the Year awards.
the business community regionally, nationally and internationally, through To further our aim of establishing membership of trade associations awareness of Renishaw as a significant such as Germanys VDW and the regional employer, we continue to UKs Manufacturing Technologies sponsor a wide range of festivals and Association, as well as local chambers organisations in the west of England of trade and business networking and South Wales.
During the year we also became sponsorship is also a desire to achieve a member of the Confederation of benets for our staff, which will in turn British Industry CBI, which is the UKs increase their engagement with partner leading business lobbying organisation.
A good example is a new We impart our knowledge and business partnership with the Bristol Music Trust, Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 51 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Trophy for Art Couture Painswick Renishaw used its AM process to create the main trophy which was presented to the winner by Chris Pockett, Head of Communications.
NBHF DPVSUFTZ PG 4USPVE FXT BOE PVSOBM which operates the well-known Colston We are continuing to strengthen our $IBSJUZ Hall: a major venue for music and relationships with local and professional comedy entertainment.
In spring 2014 sports clubs in areas where we have The Renishaw Charities Committee we became a sponsor of The Lantern, significant UK operations, including RCC was formed in the 1980s to a 250-seater space within the Colston Gloucester Rugby which plays in distribute funds to support charitable Hall which hosts a wide range of music the rugby English Premiership and and voluntary organisations and to in a quirky environment, and as part of Swansea City football club based in support the individual charitable efforts the deal, giving all staff the opportunity South Wales, which plays in the football of all UK staff through a match-funding to apply for free membership of the English Premier League.
The RCC is made up of staff Colston Hall.
we sponsor Ben Morgan, an England representatives from the Companys international player, and the Young main Gloucestershire sites and has a Another new sponsorship saw Renishaw Player of the Year award, voted for particular focus to assist organisations support Art Couture Painswick, an by our  staff.
that help enrich the lives of children and increasingly popular festival for wearable Viewers of BBCs Match of the Day adults, from toddler groups and sports art, at which we presented the Renishaw programme will also regularly see our clubs, through to organisations that Innovation Trophy for the best overall advertising hoardings at Swansea City support the disabled and the bereaved.
The trophy was a home matches.
A separate fund is also administered by unique collaboration between Renishaw the RCC, which donates monies to aid and Lionel T. Dean, a leading designer During the year we also sponsored the the victims of global disasters.
for the digital manufacturing process, German Handball-Bundesliga team who created a Viennese face mask HBW Balingen-Weilstetten, which is During the year, the RCC which we then made in titanium using based in an area where many of our www.
com charity made our AM machine.
major customers are also located.
donations to over 180 individual organisations totalling over 97,000.
Beneciaries were diverse in nature including music societies, disability support groups, primary and secondary schools, animal shelters, church restoration funds, counselling and 52 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued carers support groups, scout and DEC which co-ordinated UK brownie groups, medical research fundraising for victims of the typhoon organisations, community centres, air in the Philippines which occurred on ambulance groups, sports clubs, skate 8th November 2013, affecting over parks, senior citizen groups and hospice 14 million people.
was also made towards the creation of a new Youth Centre for Dursley, near to The Company and the RCC the UK headquarters, within the towns recognise that large numbers of Tabernacle Church.
Renishaw employees assist charitable organisations and therefore encourages &EVDBUJPO such activities through match-funding programmes, both for individual In order to attract the future engineering and collective fundraising efforts.
talent pool, we need to reach young Employee communications from the people, their parents and teachers Renishaw apprentice meets HRH The Duke Company and the RCCs intranet of York with messages about 21st century pages also include details of charities engineering and the career opportunities Our first-year apprentice, Matthew Hunter, seeking support for fundraising at all levels.
We are starting to see discusses his award-winning phone charging activities or in need of volunteers more people applying for graduate and system for bicycles with HRH The Duke trustees, and promotional posters for apprenticeship positions applications for of York.
fundraising events are distributed to both have quadrupled in the last three company noticeboards.
years but we cannot be complacent.
The sector employs 5.4 million people The RCC fully matches funds raised by across 542,440 engineering companies staff for UK national initiatives such as in the UK, and between 2010 and 2020 Movember, Comic Relief and Wear it these companies are projected to have Pink.
During the year, many employees 2.74 million job openings Engineering undertook fundraising for Children in UK report 2013.
We work hard to Need, raising just over 3,000 which ensure that we have engagement in was matched by the RCC.
schools in our major employment areas, During the year, significant donations as well as building and strengthening of 2,000 or greater were made by relationships with universities, raising our the RCC to seven organisations.
prole locally and nationally, and also This included a 10,000 donation to lobbying government so that our voice is the Disasters Emergency Committee heard at the highest levels.
Award-winning primary schools visit Renishaw Graduate induction programme Winning teams from local primary schools visited Renishaw to Graduates and apprentices enjoying team-building exercises in the programme the robot Nao.
Forest of Dean during their induction programme.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 53 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 During the year we were delighted Our focus on schools engagement about AM.
During the event, one of our to be named Gloucestershire STEM means that during the year we trained first-year apprentices, Matthew Hunter, Company of the Year by STEMNET, all our new graduate entrants and won the Young Engineers Duke of York a UK educational charity that seeks second-year apprentices to be STEM award for the The Most Creative Use to encourage participation at school ambassadors.
This enables Renishaw of Technology, and met the Duke to and colleges in the areas of Science, to involve more schools in our outreach explain his innovative phone charging Technology, Engineering and programmes, with our young engineers system for bicycles.
The award giving talks, helping out at STEM clubs Our work to build relationships with recognised our STEM work and and attending career fairs.
We are then schools in South Wales continued, initiatives with all the schools in the able to give the message directly to with another two successful education county.
Our ongoing involvement with students about what it is like being an days at our Miskin site, where over the Primary School Challenge organised engineer, which research has shown is 500 students from local schools and by GFirst, the Gloucestershire Local the most important hurdle to overcome universities had guided tours of our Enterprise Partnership, was recognised when inuencing a young persons machine shop, electronics assembly by Julie Collins, our Education Liaison career choice.
line and the assembly area for our AM Executive, being named Gloucestershire A major initiative this year was a pilot machines.
We also supported two Skills Ambassador of the Year.
programme that we have worked on schools with their project to compete This programme continues to be very with the UK organisation DATA Design for a prize at an Engineering Education successful in introducing 9 to 11 year and Technology Association.
Now that South Wales event, and were delighted old children to computer programming Design and Technology D&T has when one of our supported schools, and Renishaw engaged with teams been retained as a compulsory subject Monmouth School, won an award in 6 primary schools, supported by in UK schools up to the age of 14, for the second year running.
We also graduates or apprentices who mentored and the UK national curriculum has sponsored several schools taking the children and positively promoted been updated to be a better t for the part in the F1 in Schools competition, engineering as a career.
The best team needs of industry in the 21st century, and one school also had help from from each school won the opportunity skills gaps have been identied, as a Renishaw engineer to redesign to visit Renishaw and programme a teachers have not been trained in areas their cars nose cone, which was humanoid robot called Nao.
such as robotics and programming.
subsequently manufactured in our We continue to extend initiatives such As part of the pilot, we have worked rapidmanufacturing facility.
as our partnership with Greenpower, with D&T teachers at Marling School, a national organisation that promotes Stroud, on a project to teach them green energy racing competitions, programming in C, working with a where again we sponsored the Western microprocessor and designing a buggy.
regional heat and had a small stand They were then supported to teach at the national nals at the Goodwood this to their students over a 10-week motor circuit in the south of England.
Materials developed, including a Our Technology Teardowns, where teachers pack, lesson plans and videos pupils take apart mobile phones, printers will be available on DATAs website from and other consumer devices to learn September 2014 allowing all schools in about electronics, have also become the UK to have access to, and benefit very popular.
Pupil feedback is excellent, from, this project.
with most commenting it helped them We continue to raise awareness of understand what engineering is about Renishaw as a major UK employer of and what an engineer does.
During the young people both locally and nationally.
year, we were again a key sponsor and We again attended the national Big Bang contributor to the Stroud Festival of Fair held at the NEC in Birmingham, Manufacturing and Engineering, a weekwhere over 2,500 young people, plus long festival initiated by Neil Carmichael, teachers and parents, visited our the Member of Parliament for Stroud, stand to play a game that incorporated Gloucestershire, to raise the prole of Big Bang Fair 2014 our measurement and computer engineering and career opportunities.
A record number of students visited technology, and also to be educated Renishaws stand at the NEC in April 2014.
54 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued We are continuing to work with Renishaw continues to participate in &OWJSPONFOU universities to build relationships.
the Carbon Reduction Commitment During the year we sponsored Formula CRC Energy efficiency Scheme and Improving the operational efficiencies of Student teams at several universities, the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
the Renishaw locations across the world including the GreenTeam based at the We use the CDP as a benchmarking contributes to the sustainable growth of University of Stuttgart, Germany, plus tool and are working extensively to the business.
We recognise the need to engineering societies, and we also ensure our efforts in GHG emission lower the impacts from our operations attended a record number of career management are fully disclosed and to support this sustainable growth, and fairs.
A new initiative this year was a are as transparent as is expected at this stage we focus on carbon and collaboration with the University of of us by our employees, customers waste as two areas of significant impact.
Loughborough to design four projects and investors.
We continue to have growth in the that 16 second-year students worked We continue to maintain our Carbon business and thereby have increased on over a 3-month period.
This very Trust Standard for our UK operations activities: this is reected in our overall successful initiative raised our prole and have also been awarded the Carbon GHG increase.
To assist in the enormously at the university and will be Trust Standard for waste UK operations mitigation of this rise we have continued repeated in the next academic year.
only within this reporting period.
to invest in new technologies that help to We continue to work with industry Our Carbon Trust Standard currently reduce our energy consumption.
In the organisations and engineering peers to covers over 62% of our GHG emissions.
past year, we have invested around advise government on national policy.
This year we have further bolstered this 250,000 in equipment which will allow During the year we were invited to join standard and expanded the certication us to reduce our GHG emissions by an the Royal Academy of Engineerings to cover business travel and logistics, as estimated 1,900 4.3% of our annual Leadership and Diversity Board, which well as operational energy.
total tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent has been set up to help remove barriers tCO e per annum over the next 2 We recognise that we are legally and encourage more women and 12 months.
In addition to using half obliged to report on our Scope 1 other under-represented groups into hourly meters which assist us in tracking and 2 emissions as dened by the engineering.
We also had discussions energy consumed, we have invested Greenhouse Gas Protocol, however, with government ministers responsible in some portable energy monitoring through analysis it is evident that for education, to lobby for the inclusion equipment which allows us to create our Scope 3 emissions amount to a of D&T to be a compulsory subject in the energy proles of distinct areas of our significant proportion of our carbon new UK EBacc qualication.
We know sites and ascertain where we can footprint.
As such we will continue to that studying D&T has a great inuence further increase our energy reduction disclose our Scope 1, 2 and significant on encouraging young people to choose programmes.
We are also actively Scope 3 emissions and will continue engineering as a career.
investigating more sustainable energy to put efforts into improving data sources where it is practical and quality, scope of data and working on cost-effective to do so.
expanding our Scope 3 data capture to enable a more complete picture of our As we continue to invest in new sites GHG emissions.
and the expansion and renovation of existing properties, we have included In this reporting period our total GHG several initiatives to contribute significant emissions for our Scope 1 and 2 energy savings in our new building and emissions statutory disclosure were renovation works across the Group: for 18,209.37 tCO e. Our significant Scope 2 example, we have been able to design 3 emissions voluntary disclosure were out over 500,000 kWhs of annual energy 25,761.35 tCO e. 2 usage in our new building at New Mills.
To calculate our GHG emissions we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised addition, data gathered for our CRC submission and the UK governments GHG reporting guidance as the basis of our methodology and the source of GHG emissions factors.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 55 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 5PUBM FNJTTJPOT U$0F 4DPQF Gas consumption 685.00 652.00 1,456.00 1,479.53 1,281.42 Owned transport 1,842.40 1,617.00 1,334.40 1,521.53 2,229.84 Generator diesel 65.60 40.00 85.00 31.91 22.76 Heating oil 38.20 77.00 75.00 56.74 13.18 Fugitive emissions 0.00 0.00 0.00 88.72 382.96 Out of scope bio fuel blend 0.00 0.00 33.96 39.74 60.34 5PUBM 4DPQF U$0F 4DPQF Purchased electricity 10,525.40 14,347.00 12,008.17 13,629.09 14,279.20 5PUBM 4DPQF U$0F 5PUBM TUBUVUPSZ FNJTTJPOT U$0F PSNBMJTFE TUBUVUPSZ FNJTTJPOT CZ SFWFOVF U$0F bN 4DPQF Business travel 1,264.70 2,144.00 2,539.80 7,392.76 8,298.57 Product distribution 1,919.80 3,908.00 4,058.00 3,545.49 5,382.00 Raw material purchase 3,533.90 7,465.00 4,622.00 4,020.35 3,771.30 Post and communications 276.30 353.00 398.00 500.13 504.77 Transmissions and distribution 1,299.82 1,745.09 2,160.45 WTT total 4,049.64 4,912.26 5,644.26 Out of scope biofuel blend 8.30 8.81 49.97 5PUBM TJHOJDBOU 4DPQF U$0F PSNBMJTFE UPUBM FNJTTJPOT CZ SFWFOVF U$0F bN 1 2013 gures have been restated due to improvements in our methodology, updated GHG conversion factors and changing the reporting period to be in line with the financial year.
2 Statutory emissions are Scopes 1 and 2 as required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
3 To facilitate the timely capture of information, this disclosure uses internally reported data from July to May and the June data is given as an average of the previous three months.
This will be restated next year if a significant difference is seen.
4 Total GHG emissions include Scopes 1 and 2 statutory and Scope 3 voluntary emissions.
We recognise the impact from employees commuting to our sites and whilst we have not yet quantied this, we actively promote a car share scheme through an intranet site which can be used to nd car share partners.
We provide excellent facilities for employees who chose to commute by bike, through lockers, showers and covered bike storage areas.
56 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued deadlines for healthcare products.
8BTUF NBOBHFNFOU We continue to monitor substances against those identied as substances Renishaw continues to expand its waste of very high concern SVHC controls and now collates waste data for under the Registration, Evaluation, analysis from all the sites covered by the Authorisation and Restriction of Carbon Trust Standard for waste and a Chemicals REACH Directive, and to number of other sites across the world.
date have not identied that anything we We continue to encourage employees use is on the SVHC lists.
However, we to prevent waste going to landll.
We recognise To support this, within this reporting that whilst we do not fall within the period we have streamlined our waste remit of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street services across the UK and are working Reform and Consumer Protection Act, with our waste partner to increase compliance with the conict minerals recycling further.
Over the past three Waste management assessment and disclosure aspects of years we have seen a 50% drop in the such legislation is important to a number Briquetting system installed at Renishaws amounts sent to landll.
This means we of our customers.
We also recognise Miskin site to reclaim compacted are now reusing or recovering around aluminium swarf.
that it is our responsibility to ensure 88% 2013: 85% of all the waste from that our supply chain does not support our UK, Ireland and other key sites.
Therefore, We continue to act responsibly on we are actively investigating our supply behalf of our customers and distribute chain to enable us to eliminate conict our technical and sales documentation minerals from it and are working with a electronically whenever possible.
number of key suppliers on this project.
We also have user guides for some We also monitor for any issues we would of our product groups only available consider to be against the spirit of our online.
Our commercial documentation, Group Business Code and work with payslips in the UK and invoices are all suppliers where issues are identied.
Whilst these efforts are only a small part of what we do, they represent our attitude to ensure that we do all that we can to be a responsible organisation.
Carbon Trust Standard Waste Internal communications, wherever possible, are only made via emails or Renishaw was one of the first five businesses through the company intranet.
in the world to achieve this new standard launched in November 2013.
It is the worlds We continue to make progress on first international standard for organisational our product range to prepare it to be waste reduction.
It is an independent compliant for the Restriction of the use standard that certies organisations which of Hazardous Substances Regulations are measuring, managing and reducing their RoHS extended scope deadline in waste output, year-on-year.
2017, whilst achieving several earlier 2011 2012 2013 Waste recovered or recycled tonnes 947.68 885.57 1,210.97 Waste sent to landll tonnes 365.03 252.41 213.41 Percentage of waste sent to landll 28% 22% 15% Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 57 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 0DDVQBUJPOBM IFBMUI FBMUI BOE TBGFUZ Renishaw has had no work-related ill health or diseases reported.
Renishaw has a well established corporate health and safety Health monitoring in the form of lung management system that is in line function testing, hearing testing and eye with the ISO18001 requirements.
testing, where appropriate for a job role, We recognise that any injury may has been established for several years develop into something more and is ongoing.
serious if not cared for correctly.
Health support for staff is offered in the As our employees are essential to our form of subsidised health monitoring business, we record all injuries from blood pressure, diabetes, cholesterol the smallest of paper cuts to the most and BMI.
serious of incidents, to enable us to manage treatment and investigate all ODJEFOUT OFBS NJTTFT incidents effectively.
A total of 68 2013: 57 near misses were recorded for the period.
This is a 19.2% The total number of accidents for the increase on the numbers reported in period was 151 2013: 161 against a year the last period, driven as a result of end headcount of 3,492 2013: 3,235. stronger emphasis on the importance This equates to an accident ratio of of reporting of what might seem even 0.043 accidents per person and is trivial incidents.
No significant repeating 8.1% down on the same period the common causes have been established.
year before, despite an 8% increase in stafng levels.
Training continues to take 3JTL BTTFTTNFOU place in order to continue to reduce the Over the period an automated risk accident rate further.
assessment system was introduced 3FQPSUBCMF BDDJEFOUT using SharePoint.
This allows the recording and tracking of risk There were two reportable accidents assessment actions, including the under the UK RIDDOR reporting issue of automatic reminders to those requirements: one slip and one crush responsible for risk assessments.
resulting in a total lost time of 271 hours or 36.1 days.
The Strategic report was approved by the Board on 23rd July 2014 and signed onits behalf by Sir David R McMurtry Chairman and Chief Executive
