36 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Corporate responsibility report continued Other initiatives During 2014 the Group successfully opened a further 40 The Group is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data restaurants and in the process created over 1,300 jobs within Exchange SEDEX, which facilitates measurement and the local communities: a trend which we expect to continue improvement in ethical business practices across the supply as we expand our business.
As part of our commitment to chain: in 2013, 164 of our food and non-food suppliers equal opportunities, our policies offer equal rights regardless provided information describing their procedures and of age, colour, gender, sexual orientation, disability or religion practices to the Group via SEDEX.
This has risen to 251 and the diversity of our people reflects the diversity of the in 2014. customers we serve.
As in previous years, there continues to be no known The Group pays all of its employees at least the national genetically modified foods in any product the Group uses minimum wage and does not utilise tips in any form to make and new suppliers are required to confirm that they will up this rate.
All gratuities are paid to the employees, with not provide the Group with such products.
We have also credit card tips attracting only the usual tax deductions but, removed the Southampton Institute colourings that can unlike some of our competitors, no administration fee is taken cause hyperactivity in children from all TRG branded by the Company.
Within the Company, training and development is the Our people foundation on which our business is built.
We have specialist The most important asset any company can have is its training teams that ensure that every employee receives the people and with over 15,000 employees it is essential that highest quality training possible.
We have invested and we foster that talent, and support employees in building great launched a state of the art e-learning platform, providing new teams.
All employees are encouraged and supported to IT equipment for every site allowing us to deliver a wide array progress and develop within our Company and we endeavour of classroom training, on the job development and individually to provide them with the tools and knowledge to achieve this.
designed training programmes through our own training This is the key to any successful business and our team is teams and selected specialist learning partners.
We feel this one of which we are especially proud.
approach helps keep the Group and all of our employees ahead of the competition.
All of our new managers, no matter the experience or the level, undertake our Managers in Training MIT programme when As our portfolio of sites is spread throughout the UK, it is vital they join us or are promoted from within.
Our MIT programme that our communication is of a very high standard.
We work continues to identify and develop talent: the Group also hard to ensure employees, in particular those based at our continues to implement leadership programmes to assist in branches, are given regular team briefings.
Our senior the identification and development of our future managers.
managers travel extensively around our businesses and Whilst we realise the importance of developing internal talent, interact daily with their branch management and team we are expanding our commitment to apprentice and members to ensure full two-way communication is present graduate programmes to help create a clear path for an throughout the business.
individual, as part of this programme, to join the Company and progress in to a management position.
Already some of our Employee engagement is important for the Group.
In graduates from previous intakes have been promoted into addition to the 2015 Employee Survey, we are currently more senior roles.
Appraisals setting clear objectives are also implementing new visions and values through our Proud firmly in place with development and performance linked to to be TRG initiative.
clear salary structures and career progression.
Health and Safety Such schemes are a key feature of the Groups succession The health and safety of our customers and employees is planning strategy and are therefore designed to equip of paramount importance.
The Group has worked hard to managers with the skills they need to develop their careers ensure extensive procedures are in place to mitigate risks as at the next level and to ensure the Company remains their far as possible to our guests and employees.
We have very employer of choice over the long-term.
clear procedures and standards in place, and to enforce these we employ external auditors to perform a rolling programme of independent safety audits and carry out benchmarking of our restaurants.
We have invested significant time and resources in health and safety matters across the Group in recent years to further enhance the clean, safe environment for our customers and staff.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 37 Our communities Help Amber Walk Appeal We are passionate about engaging with our communities and In August 2014, Frankie & Bennys became aware of a young actively support our teams in their fundraising efforts and girl called Amber who suffers from Spastic Diplegia Cerebral community engagement.
She needed to raise 60,000 to pay for an operation that would enable her to walk.
Following fundraising efforts Throughout 2014 we supported a number of local and throughout the weekends in our restaurants and sponsorship national charitable events, some of which are detailed below: of a 100 mile cycle, Frankie & Bennys were able to donate over 17,300 towards her operation.
The operation was a Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research success and Amber is currently undergoing physiotherapy.
During 2014, Frankie & Bennys worked with Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research, the UK blood cancer charity.
Every British Heart Foundation year they help prevent people dying of blood cancer and In 2014, Chiquito raised funds for the British Heart Foundation, carry out research into preventable measures to avoid those the nations heart charity and the largest independent developing blood cancer in the first instance.
In July, several funder of cardiovascular research.
Throughout the year the members of the senior management team took part in a restaurants held a variety of charity breakfasts and fun days 500km London to Paris bike ride raising over 275,000 and and donated over 12,700. throughout the year restaurants have held various fundraising weekends to help highlight the need for further research.
Charity breakfasts & local charity events In addition to the large fundraising drives above, there any Childrens Hospice Association Scotland CHAS many other charities that have benefitted from our support The Group has raised over 400,000 for CHAS since this year.
We regularly host charity breakfasts at which we fundraising began.
During 2014 Filling Station undertook offer free breakfasts in return for a donation to local charities various fundraising activities for CHAS raising over 11,000 including Young Epilepsy, Phyllis Tuckwell Hospice, St for the charity.
CHAS provides the only hospice service Georges Hospital Charity and Shine Northern Ireland.
Coast in Scotland for children and young people who have lifeto Coast and Filling Station regularly raise funds for DEBRA shortening conditions for which there is no known cure.
who are the national charity supporting individuals and families affected by Epidermolysis Bullosa EB : during 2014 Caudwell Children the brand donated over 15,400.
Caudwell Children provide family support services, equipment, treatment and therapies for disabled children and Sport & Education their families across the UK.
Frankie & Bennys raised Junior sports team sponsorship 60,000 in 2011 helping to fund treatment for a little girl called Frankie & Bennys have a long history of sponsoring local Susanna who was unable to walk.
In 2014 we were pleased junior sports.
During 2014, we sponsored a total of 144 junior to raise over 43,000 for Susanna to continue her teams across the country playing football, rugby, hockey, rehabilitation and help to fund treatment for another 16 swimming, gymnastics, netball and much more.
Not only children who have cerebral palsy and brain injuries.
Susanna do we provide kits for the teams, but we also take an active has recently started playing netball, the first time she has ever role during the season, attending tournaments and inviting been able to participate in P. E. classes at school.
them to enjoy end of season celebration dinners at Frankie & Bennys.
BBC Children in Need During 2014 our Penny from a pint campaign raised over Schools visit programme 20,000 for Children in Need and a further 90,000 had been The Frankie & Bennys schools visit programme has been raised through a number of local fund raising activities across in place for more than six years now and continues to grow our Frankie & Bennys restaurants.
In the last six years, the in popularity with over 1,750 visits taking place in 2014. brand has raised a combined total of over 500,000 for School children, accompanied by their teachers, are given Children in Need.
the opportunity to visit our restaurants to help bring curriculum based subjects such as maths, science and food hygiene to life.
The children are also able to make their own pizzas by choosing their toppings.
Whilst we leave the cooking to the chefs, school children are given an educational activity book to complete a pack that has been designed by educational experts.
38 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Corporate responsibility report continued Our environment Under Scope 1 we have seen a significant drop in our F-Gas The Group recognises its responsibility in minimising its Operation of Facilities compared to 2013 where there impact on the natural environment and continues its was a higher need for replacement gas due to maintenance commitment in reducing its energy consumption and carbon issues: something the Group has worked hard to rectify emissions, water usage and waste.
Energy Consumption and Carbon Emissions We continue to promote our energy saving campaign to The Group continues to maintain the Carbon Saver Gold all restaurants and through the timely supply of accurate Standard and also seeks to further improve the energy reporting, operational managers have the information efficiency of the fabric of its estate.
New restaurant fit-out they need to allow them to monitor and reduce energy specifications now include heat recovery systems, energy consumption levels.
This alongside our other initiatives will saving lighting, low energy hand dryers and increased assist the Group in completing future obligations under the insulation.
In the course of the year we opened a number new Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS legislation of sites under the Building Research Establishment and allow us to explore new environmental opportunities.
Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM incorporating the use of Solar PV, Building Management Software and grey Our shareholders water harvesting.
The Group has had a clear strategy since 2001 to deliver value for shareholders by focusing on sectors within the Further investment in Voltage Optimisation equipment and eating out market that offer high barriers to entry, where we behavioural training resulted in a like-for-like energy reduction can generate sustainable and growing cash flows and which for the 5th consecutive year.
offer high returns on investment.
This has led the Group to focus investment in edge and out of town leisure locations, Waste Management rural and semi-rural pubs and our Concessions business, The Group has introduced food recycling across the estate which operates principally within airports.
The Group has resulting in 85% of our waste being redirected from landfill: maintained a progressive track record of growing profits and up from 49% in 2013. dividends for shareholders.
The Chairmans Statement, the Review of Operations and the Financial Review provide Emissions data in respect of the 2014 reporting period, on the further detail on the Groups strategy, performance during financial control reporting basis, is as follows: 2014 and the prospects for the Group.
2012 13 2013 14 CO e tonnes CO e tonnes 2 2 Carbon Carbon Dioxide Dioxide Emission Type equivalent equivalent Scope 1: Operation of Facilities 851 4,046 Scope 1: Combustion 16,909 17,397 TOTAL Scope 1 Emissions 17,760 21,443 Scope 2: Purchased Energy 61,700 53,788 TOTAL Scope 2 Emissions 61,700 53,788 Total Emissions 79,460 75,231 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio: Total Footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e 79,460 75,231 2 Turnover 635.2m 579.2m Intensity Ratio tCO e 1,000 0.125 0.130 2 Notes: Our methodology has been based on the principals of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
We have reported on all the measured emissions sources required under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions are those published by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in 2013.
Refrigerant fugitive emissions from our pub estate were excluded last year due to an absence of data.
