STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 29 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: PEOPLE REWARDING AND SHARING SUCCESS An organisation that is engaged and performs is critical Our aim is to be an employer of choice with a culture of high performance, motivated to our success.
The readiness of our people to compete people and outstanding leaders.
We need to and win in our industry is central to the sustainability of ensure we can attract and retain top talent by making Rexam a great place to work where our business.
During the year, we continued to invest in people from all backgrounds can develop their careers and feel rewarded.
our people and systems so that they can perform and We maintain a clear consistent approach grow in their job.
to rewarding our people competitively not only what they do, but also how they do it with base salaries linked to their role, contribution and performance.
Global short term incentive plans aligned to business HUMAN RIGHTS AND DIVERSITY Code of Conduct.
This supports our efforts strategy and our shareholder interests are We aim to deliver sustainable success to attract and retain the best talent and, we offered to the majority of our employees so by providing an inspiring place to work, believe, encourages new ways of thinking.
that they can share in the success.
Company upholding human and labour rights and Decisions regarding selection, terms of and individual performance measures enable ethical business practices and ensuring supply employment, advancement, retention and us to recognise and reward exceptional chain labour standards.
A respect for human termination are made without regard to gender, performance.
See also page 65. rights is implicit in our employment practices race, religion, colour, national origin, age, across all our operations as well as in the high marital status, sexual orientation or physical or CHARITABLE WORK AND DONATIONS standards we expect from our suppliers see mental disability.
Disabled people are given full We encourage all our teams to be constructive page 17 wherever we source their products.
consideration for employment and subsequent members of our local communities.
Rexams We are often important employers in the training including, if needed, retraining for total charitable donations including cash and communities in which we operate, and we alternative work where employees have become in kind donations during 2014 were 830,766 take into consideration local concerns, using disabled, career development and promotion 2013: 767,369. our presence responsibly to contribute to the on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
promotion of the communities wellbeing.
In 2014 we employed on average 8,028 people Our five core values see page 18 and around the world.
88% of our workforce 7,078 our Code of Conduct, which sets out clear is male and 12% female 950 2013: 89% and Rexam sponsored the Ameri-CAN Canned Craft Beer Festival in Scottsdale, Arizona.
More than 3,000 standards of behaviour, underpin our social, 11% respectively.
The imbalance is not untypical visitors sampled beers from 80 craft breweries from ethical and environmental commitments and for a manufacturing industry.
At year end 2014, across the country.
As part of its sponsorship, Rexam send a clear message to all of our stakeholders.
the board comprised six males 75% and two provided bins to recycle the nearly half a tonne females 25% 2013: 75% and 25%.
In senior of cans that were collected, with the proceeds We promote non discriminatory decisions management roles there were 164 males 85% donated to the Phoenix Childrens Hospital.
and actions through online legal compliance and 29 females 15% 2013: 85% male and training which ensure familiarity with our own 15% female.
