Sustainable development Rio Tintos vision is to be a company that is admired and respected for Our process has been developed in line with the Global Reporting Initiative delivering superior business value and for being the industrys trusted partner.
GRI guidance on materiality and completeness www.
To earn this trust we must continually find safer, smarter, more sustainable This specifies that sustainable development reports should cover topics and ways to run our business.
indicators that reflect the organisations significant economic, environmental and social impacts or that substantively influence the assessments and We are always looking for new answers to the complex global and local decisions of stakeholders.
It involves identifying and prioritising issues that challenges we face, which include resource scarcity, climate change, may affect our business and stakeholders over the next three years, taking community employment and regional economic development.
We see these internal and external perspectives into account.
challenges as opportunities to advance our reputation and create value for our business, our shareholders and the people we are proud to work alongside.
To We create a materiality matrix which plots external stakeholders level of achieve our sustainable development goals, we work hand-in-hand with our concern against the current or potential impact on our business.
Each issue is partners and communities on the ground, where it matters most.
given a rating of low, medium or high from both internal and external perspectives.
An impact can be either positive or negative.
The foundation is The way we work, our global code of business conduct.
It contains the principles and standards of conduct which reaffirm our Issues that are of high importance to both our external and internal commitment to sustainable development, and operational excellence at our stakeholders are reported in this section of our Annual report.
All of our sites must meet a minimum set of performance standards for medium-to-high importance are reported in the full Sustainable development health, safety, environment, closure and community and social performance.
These ensure we meet or go beyond our statutory and regulatory Having determined which topics to include in our 2014 materiality matrix, we requirements.
The standards are backed up by strong processes to assure reviewed these with internal experts from each of our sustainable management that we are performing to the right levels and establishing development focus areas to determine their validity and relative importance.
longer-term identification and management of risks.
The results of this assessment were reviewed and approved by the We also measure ourselves against the performance of other companies in our Sustainability Committee.
sector as well as leaders in other industries.
Over many years we have played Further information on the Sustainability Committee is included in the a leading role in developing sustainable development standards in the mining Directors report on page 59. and metals sector through organisations such as the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, and national bodies, particularly in Australia.
We Performance overview look to learn from other sectors where leading companies performance can Performance progress in 2014 included: .
A nine per cent reduction in our all injury frequency rate AIFR compared with 2013.
Materiality We use a materiality assessment to focus our report on the sustainable A 12 per cent reduction in our lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR development issues that matter most.
This tells us which issues are material compared with 2013. to our stakeholders and to our business.
We run this process annually as part An 18 per cent reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions intensity of our corporate reporting cycle, to ensure that each year we provide the from 2008. information that our stakeholders are looking for.
Receiving the CDP leadership award for the largest absolute carbon reduction on the ASX 200.
Issues of highest Meeting our communities target that all operations have locallymateriality appropriate, publicly-reported indicators in place consistent with the reported in Millennium Development Goals.
the Annual report Being recognised as having good practice on human rights reporting in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Improving our listing as a leading company on the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, which investors use to monitor businesses sustainability performance.
Issues reported However, we did not achieve all our goals and there are areas where we need in the sustainable to improve.
Above all, we must achieve our target of zero fatalities.
Tragically, development two colleagues lost their lives while working at our managed operations in website 2014.
Also, in addition to complying with statutory reporting obligations, we reported 12 environmental incidents to the Executive Committee with the potential to impact the environment or to concern local communities.
In 2013, we reported 15 such incidents.
Issues addressed Our priorities for 2015 are to: through direct Deliver our refreshed safety strategy for fatality elimination, injury communications, reduction and catastrophic risk management.
not reported in Maintain progress on reducing greenhouse gas emissions intensity.
normal channels Achieve our target to implement critical control monitoring plans against material health risks.
Complete an epidemiology study of the workforce at Rssing Uranium Limited.
Low Medium High Further develop and implement our Mental Health Framework throughout the business.
Current or potential impact on our business 20 riotinto.
com Level of concern to stakeholders Low Medium High STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Implement our updated Health, Safety, Environment & Communities Performance data HSEC and Closure standards throughout our operations.
Our sustainable development performance data are reported for calendar years Enhance business management of water risks and rehabilitation performance.
and, unless stated otherwise, represent 100 per cent of the parameters at each managed operation, even though Rio Tinto may have only partial ownership.
Meet our diversity and inclusion targets for women and graduates.
Advance our talent pipeline and the continued implementation of diversity Data reported in previous years may be modified if verification processes detect and inclusion.
material errors, or if changes are required to ensure comparability over time.
Develop a regional economic development toolkit in partnership with local Wherever possible, data for operations acquired prior to 1 October of the communities and our Procurement function.
Divested operations are included in data Further streamline the integration of human rights considerations into collection processes up until the transfer of management control.
We will also develop a more targeted riskWe have incorporated the requirements of the ten sustainable development based approach for stand-alone human rights studies.
principles of the ICMM and the mandatory requirements set out in ICMM Continue developing our integrity and compliance programme.
We will Position statements into our own policies, strategies and standards.
We report focus on ways in which we can improve risk assessments where they relate in line with the GRI G3 guidelines at Application level A.
In 2015, we will to business integrity, third party due diligence and monitoring.
begin reporting in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines.
Refresh The way we work, to ensure it remains relevant to our employees, Further information on our data definitions, our GRI-checked report and our the business and the risks we face.
alignment with the ICMM sustainable development principles and supporting position statement can be found online at riotinto.
com sd2014 Goals and targets As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we have set Group targets for a range of sustainable development metrics.
These help us drive performance improvement and manage risk.
Further information on the risk framework that Rio Tinto applies to identify these metrics and drive decision-making can be found on pages 14 to 17.
Targets Performance to date Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of 2 fatalities at managed operations in 2014. workplace fatalities.
Performance against this goal is measured by the number of fatalities and a 9 per cent reduction in our AIFR compared with 2013. year-on-year improvement in our all injury frequency rate AIFR per 200,000 hours worked.
A year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of occupational illness 6 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees annually.
All managed operations will have reviewed and increased their focus on 41 per cent of managed operations have identified their critical health risks managing their health risks, through implementation of critical control and implemented CCMPs.
management plans CCMPs to address their specific material health risks, by the end of 2015.
Ten per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity between 18 per cent reduction in our total greenhouse gas emissions intensity 2008 and 2015. compared with 2008, currently beating our 2015 target.
All managed operations with material water risk will have achieved their 66 per cent of managed operations are on track to meet their recently approved local water performance targets by 2018. approved local water performance targets.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements that represent the diversity of our surrounding communities.
We are targeting: Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management by 2015.
Women represented 15.5 per cent of our senior management in 2014.
Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
Women represented 31.8 per cent of our 2014 graduate intake.
15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals from regions where 17.8 per cent of our 2014 graduate intake were nationals from regions we are developing new businesses.
where we are developing new businesses.
By 2015, all operations have in place locally-appropriate, publicly-reported We met our target and all operations have locally-appropriate, publiclysocial performance indicators that demonstrate a positive contribution to the reported indicators in place.
economic development of the communities and regions where we work, consistent with the Millennium Development Goals.
com 21 Sustainable development continued Performance data 2010-2014 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Social Fatalities at managed operations from safety incidents 2 3263 Fatalities at managed operations from health incidents 1 All injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.59 0.65 0.67 0.67 0.69 New cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees 15 16 15 13 20 a Employees number 60,000 66,000 71,000 68,000 77,000 Environment Greenhouse gas emissions intensity indexed relative to 2008 82.0 83.2 94.1 95.9 96.1 Total energy use petajoules 450 484 502 516 513 Freshwater used billion litres 465 436 446 465 457 Land footprint disturbed square kilometres 3,592 3,556 3,530 3,485 3,453 Land footprint rehabilitated square kilometres 502 472 446 422 420 Economic contribution a b Value add US$ million 29,178 31,818 26,195 38,193 33,812 a Payments to suppliers US$ million 21,370 26,054 30,271 28,444 27,486 Community contributions US$ million 261 331 291 294 166 Numbers restated from those originally published to ensure comparability over time.
Amendments due to changes in measurement and calculation methodologies or immaterial updates to data.
a These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
b Value add is the sum of labour costs, payments to governments and returns on capital invested in operations.
This focus on investigation and sharing lessons learned extends to our nonSocial managed operations.
Further discussion of this is covered on page 25.
Safety 2014 proved to be our best year ever in terms of injury rate performance.
Our We continued our focus on incorporating learnings from the Oil and Gas all injury frequency rate AIFR, which includes data for employees and industry into our management of process safety.
We have projects in place to: contractors, is one of the key safety measures we consider in monitoring our build leader awareness and competence: performance.
At the end of 2014, our AIFR was 0.59 per 200,000 hours worked.
improve incident reporting and investigation: and Over the last five years we have reduced our AIFR by 14.5 per cent.
Our lost deepen our understanding of the process safety risks and the effectiveness time injury frequency rate LTIFR was 0.37 per 200,000 hours worked in 2014. of controls through rigorous process hazard risk analysis studies.
Our commitment to safety is the foundation of how we operate, as we work to achieve our vision of everyone going home safe and healthy after each Health working day.
We believe we can prevent fatalities, injuries and illness by We provide a healthy environment for our workforce.
We continue to focus on effectively identifying and controlling risks in our business.
identifying, minimising and managing key occupational health risks to control occupational exposures.
We also focus on promoting the fundamentals of For us to achieve our goal of zero fatalities, every person working at Rio Tinto fitness for work, particularly for safety-critical roles.
To this end we are building a positive safety culture, where everyone contributes to improving our safety performance and has the We are targeting a year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of confidence to stop work and ensure it is safe.
In 2014, we reduced our rate of new cases of occupational illness by six per cent from 2013.
The main types of occupational illnesses We have a long history of good safety performance and strive to improve on recorded relate to musculo-skeletal disorders 49 per cent, stress 33 per this every year.
In 2014, we updated our safety strategy to confirm our focus cent and noise-induced hearing loss four per cent.
on injury reduction and strengthen our emphasis on fatality elimination and catastrophic event prevention.
This helps us drive effective risk management, Worldwide, our employees face occupational health risks that vary significantly identify critical risks, verify that we have controls in place and provide our because of the diversity and geographic spread of our operations.
We now people with appropriate training.
have a 2015 Group target for all managed operations to have reviewed and increased their focus on managing their health risks, through Regrettably, we did not meet our goal of zero fatalities in 2014.
Two people implementation of critical control management plans CCMPs to address their lost their lives while working at Rio Tinto managed operations.
Darryl specific material health risks, by the end of 2015.
This will help businesses to Manderson died due to an equipment incident during maintenance activities at focus on the right issues and have the right critical controls in place.
the Gove alumina refinery in Australia.
Enrick Gagnon died in a train derailment incident at the Iron Ore Company of Canada.
These are tragic The process we are using to help businesses put these plans in place has led events that affect families, friends and workmates.
We provide support and to a more pragmatic, focused approach to the control of material health risks.
counselling to those who have lost loved ones.
We have helped businesses to develop internal competency in this area.
Forty one per cent of managed operations have identified their critical health risks To achieve our target of zero fatalities it is essential we learn from both actual and implemented CCMPs.
Most 89 per cent believe they are well placed to and potential significant incidents to prevent them happening again.
We are meet the CCMP target by the end of 2015. strengthening our investigative process so that we improve our understanding of the factors that lead to fatalities, and the behavioural and process changes In 2014, we revised our health standards to simplify them, to provide a needed to eliminate them.
We continue to collaborate industry-wide to share consistent framework for managing health risks and focus on material risks for and apply best practice.
These will be rolled out in 2015.
This change aims to encourage improved ownership of the standards by operations leaders and ensure we are managing the impacts and risks related to our operations in order to protect employees and improve our workplaces.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The potential for fatigue to contribute to safety incidents is well understood.
Throughout 2014, we remained one of the largest private sector employers of To improve fatigue management we use research tools and technology to Indigenous Australians, with over 1,650 full time Indigenous employees who complement our programmes, including: personal alerting tools: personal represented approximately 7.5 per cent of our permanent Australian workforce.
monitors to measure sleep quantity, quality and associated mental In addition to our permanent Indigenous workforce we had over 550 Indigenous effectiveness: and scheduling.
contractors working on our Australian mine sites.
Our local employment commitments are often managed through directly-negotiated agreements with Across many industries, the potential for mental health problems to lead to Traditional Owners.
short and long-term disability, employee turnover and occupational injuries is becoming better understood.
In partnership with subject matter experts in this Diversity helps us generate new and innovative ways of thinking.
We are field we have developed tools and training that will support the management of committed to increasing the representation of women in our business and mental health risks for our workers.
These cover a broad range of areas across remain focused on ensuring our workforce is representative of the countries mental health management, including crisis response, understanding mental and communities in which we operate.
Women represented 31.8 per cent health and ultimately improving the wellbeing and resilience of our workforce.
female: 34: male: 73 of our graduate intake in 2014, 21.4 per cent female: 3: male: 11 of the board, 15.5 per cent female: 104: male: 565 of our senior March 2015 marks one year since the World Health Organisation WHO was c management, and 18.7 per cent female: 9,963: male: 43,122 of our total notified of an outbreak of Ebola in West Africa.
In Guinea, where we have workforce.
In 2014, 17.8 per cent of our graduate intake were nationals from operations, 2,730 cases were reported and 1,739 deaths since the outbreak regions where we are developing new businesses.
Responding to the outbreak, a Rio Tinto Business Resilience Team was diversity and inclusion can be found on page 60 in the Corporate established and a number of control measures have been implemented in governance section.
partnership with the Guinean Government, WHO and other international organisations.
We have put prevention measures in place both for our We recognise we have further work to do to deliver on our diversity targets for employees and the local Guinean communities.
We have supported the 2015 and this is reflected in our work plan.
We will continue to develop our Government and communities through awareness raising and providing graduate talent to build on the completion of a successful three-year logistics and food.
As part of our efforts we have organised and conducted emerging regions graduate intake programme from 2011 to 2014. prevention and awareness campaigns, distributed hygiene kits and provided Our 2014 employee survey showed that our people continue to report high support to local hospitals with protective equipment and medical supplies.
To levels of engagement, with employees feeling that safety, efficiency and date, none of our employees or their families in Guinea have been affected by flexibility have improved since the last survey.
They believe that we can do the disease.
more to celebrate our successes and manage personal performance.
Action Rssing was challenged by local and international stakeholders in relation to planning has occurred across the Group, with improvement plans developed the long-term health of, and impacts from radiation on, its employees at the in partnership between leaders and employees.
The implementation of these Rssing mine in Namibia.
It was alleged that employees were not given plans will continue throughout 2015. access to their medical records.
In fact, since the mine started in 1976, all Good communication and open, honest dialogue are vital if we are to meet employees have had access to their own health records and Rssing has the expectations of our employees.
Rio Tintos culture of leader-led longstanding standards and programmes to help manage health risks communication and engagement is supported by a number of communication including monitoring and academic review.
For 2015, Rssing will undertake tools.
These include myRioTinto, a portal dedicated to employment needs, and a new epidemiological study.
This study will be conducted by independent keeping employees informed of Group updates, news and announcements.
experts and will be peer reviewed.
Communities and regional development People We strive to build good relationships with our host communities.
We engage The way we work sets out the principles that form the foundation of our with them to understand the social, environmental and economic implications business: collaboration, fair treatment and living our values of respect, of our activities, seeking to minimise negative impacts and bring shared value integrity, teamwork and accountability.
We seek to hire, motivate and retain people who demonstrate our values and We work to a Communities and Social Performance CSP framework based on are passionate about making a difference to our business and the building knowledge, engaging with communities and developing programmes communities in which we live and work.
We employ people on the basis of job that reflect local community priorities.
Our CSP programme and our policy, requirements and do not discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic or social standards and guidance notes support this.
origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics, religion, disability or any other status.
We do not employ forced, bonded or child labour.
We recognise the During 2014, our business contributed to just under 2,200 socio-economic right of all employees to choose to belong to a union and seek to bargain programmes covering a wide range of activities such as health, education, collectively.
We employ people with disabilities and make considerable efforts environmental protection, housing, agricultural and business development.
to offer suitable alternative employment and retraining to employees who In 2014, we spent US$261 million on these community contribution become disabled and can no longer perform their regular duties.
There was a decrease in overall community contributions of 21 per cent compared to 2013, which reflects prevailing market conditions, To ensure that what we do creates long-term value for all our stakeholders, divestments and completion of key programmes at developing projects such we set clear performance objectives for employees.
We have Group-wide as Oyu Tolgoi and La Granja.
performance and remuneration systems that ensure we assess employees consistently and transparently.
By engaging with employees about the Our Communities target requires that, by 2015, all operations must have business and their career aspirations, we make a clear link between in place locally-appropriate, publicly-reported social performance indicators performance and reward.
that demonstrate a positive contribution to the economic development of the communities and regions where we work.
This is consistent with the UNs In 2014, we employed 60,000 people including the Groups share of joint Millennium Development Goals.
We met our target and 100 per cent of arrangements and associates.
Of these, approximately 31,000 were located in operations have the indicators in place and have reported them publicly, in Australasia, 16,000 in North America, 7,000 in Africa, 4,000 in Europe and 2014.
During 2015 we will establish a new Group target, to apply from 2016, 2,000 in Central and South America.
See page 180 for a breakdown of to indicate progress and results of our Communities and Social Performance employees by business units.
c Gender distribution for our total workforce is based on managed operations excludes non-managed operations and joint ventures as of 31 December 2014. riotinto.
com 23 Sustainable development continued We accept that we cannot meet everybodys concerns and expectations.
Closure planning is integrated into our operational activities and we aim to However, wherever we operate we seek to do so with broad-based community progressively rehabilitate as much land as possible prior to closure.
By listening carefully to the concerns of our stakeholders, and 26 per cent of our disturbed land excluding land disturbed for hydroelectricity consistently aiming to align their needs with our own, we work to create dams had been rehabilitated.
Our biodiversity goal is also closely connected to mutually beneficial outcomes through collaboration with our partners to closure planning and management.
At sites with high or very high biodiversity manage the shared risks, responsibilities and benefits of the long-life values, we aim to have achieved a net positive impact NPI on biodiversity, or investments we make.
have a clear set of criteria that demonstrates trajectory to NPI, agreed by the time we close operations.
These sites are determined by their proximity to Environment biodiversity-rich habitats, species of conservation significance and the site Climate change conservation context.
In 2014, 32 of our operations were prioritised with either high eight, or very high 24 biodiversity values.
To achieve our goal these The scale of necessary emissions reductions coupled with the worlds sites are required to develop and implement biodiversity action plans.
increasing requirements for secure, affordable energy create large challenges which require worldwide attention.
Our climate change programme Stakeholder consultation with local communities, including traditional focuses on reducing the energy intensity of our operations, as well as the landowners, governments, and employees is a fundamental part of our carbon intensity of our energy.
Our total greenhouse gas GHG emissions were 33.9 million tonnes of carbon Water dioxide equivalent COe in 2014, 3.5 million tonnes lower than in 2013.
In 2 Wherever possible we prevent or otherwise minimise, mitigate and 2008 we set a target of a ten per cent reduction in total GHG emissions remediate the impact that our operations may have on water resources.
Our intensity, to be achieved by 2015.
We have reduced our total GHG emissions approach to water management is based on the identification, assessment and intensity by 18 per cent compared with 2008, currently beating our 2015 control of water-related risks.
We seek risk-based local solutions to promote target.
Over the same period absolute emissions were reduced by 31 per cent.
sustainable water supply for our operations and communities.
A new target will be set in 2015 that extends the existing external target to For many years, our focus has been on reducing the freshwater use per tonne 2020.
This will focus on the challenge to increase energy efficiency.
Targets of product and we set ourselves a target for this metric from 2008 to 2013. will be developed in collaboration with businesses, and take into account their However, over this period, we learnt that this metric alone did not always current circumstances and future plans.
address the issues that have the greatest potential to impact our performance, Our business is inherently energy intensive.
The majority of our GHG or that were of most concern to local stakeholders.
emissions are generated from energy use electricity, fuel and chemical Water challenges and risks vary by region and site, so we have redefined our processes anodes and reductants during mining, milling and smelting Group water target to better reflect the local and regional conditions and the activities at our sites.
The majority 65 per cent of the electricity we use is risks to the environment where we operate.
The current Group water target from hydropower.
requires that, by 2018, all managed operations with material water risk will Transportation, processing and use of our products also contribute have reviewed and improved their management of these material water risks, significantly to GHG emissions.
In 2014, the three most significant sources of and will have achieved their approved local water performance targets.
indirect emissions associated with our products were: A site is identified as having a material water risk where there is potential for a Approximately 5.3 million tonnes of COe associated with third party 2 high or critical impact on the business through effects on the environment, transport of our products and raw materials.
production, community, compliance or reputation.
An estimated 129.6 million tonnes of COe associated with customers 2 Local water performance targets have been set to improve the site-specific using our coal in electricity generation and steel production.
These cover three areas: water supply, ecological impacts, Approximately 459.4 million tonnes of COe associated with customers 2 and water surplus management.
Each site has a target that is appropriate to its using our iron ore to produce steel these emissions are not all in addition specific operational circumstances.
At the end of 2014, 66 per cent of managed to the coal-use emissions above, as some customers use both our iron ore operations were on track to meet their approved local water performance and our coal to produce steel.
targets by 2018 and the remaining sites are committed to making progress and To assess how carbon policy and regulation will affect our businesses and our will have submitted, by the end of 2015, clear plans to meet these targets.
products in the future, we closely monitor national and international climate Unfortunately, five incidents related to water were reported to the Executive and energy policy developments and we advocate constructively for policies Committee in 2014.
These are listed in the environmental regulation section that are environmentally effective, economically efficient and equitable.
We included in the Directors report on page 47.
We use these incidents and our also assess the potential risks to the resilience of our operations from annual assessment of performance against the targets to focus attention and changing climatic events.
effort on those sites and businesses that need support to improve their water Further information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is included in management performance.
the Directors report on page 48.
In 2014, our total water use was 834 billion litres and total recycled water was 264 billion litres.
This is consistent with 2013 performance.
Closure Although it may extend over decades, mining is a temporary land use.
Environmental regulation It is a priority that we plan ahead for the closure of our operations after the We are subject to various environmental regulations and are required to commercially recoverable ore is exhausted.
We must balance the needs and disclose Group-level environmental incidents and fines.
Further information on expectations of the present with those of future generations, while responding the Groups environmental regulation is included in the Directors report on to environmental and social challenges of mine closure.
The Closure standard applies to all our managed operations and to nonoperational legacy sites.
This provides consistency in closure planning and management.
It also helps us identify opportunities for generating positive socio-economic benefits from our activities.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The operation employs controlled riverine tailings transport, a process that the Economic World Bank does not consider as good industry practice, on the basis that it is Economic contributions contrary to the International Finance Corporations 2007 Environmental, Our operations can have a substantial impact on the regions and countries in Health, and Safety Guidelines for mining.
However, several independent expert which we operate through our tax payments to local and national reviews concluded that this method represents the best available option for governments, the direct and indirect employment we generate and our this operation because of the extremely rugged topography, high rainfall and community programmes.
We continue to believe that this method is d Globally, the Groups economic contribution was US$51 billion in 2014.
This appropriate given these conditions, but have adopted the standard that includes: riverine and shallow marine disposal of mining and processing mineral waste will not be used at new Rio Tinto managed operations.
US$29 billion in value add, made up of payments to employees, payments to governments and returns to capital.
Rio Tinto technical personnel review and provide guidance and oversight of the controlled riverine tailings management system with a focus on US$21 billion as payments to suppliers.
geotechnical, geochemical and environmental issues.
There is an official We are committed to contributing to the social and economic development of multidisciplinary Technical Committee which addresses environmental issues our host communities.
It is important to our shareholders, employees and along with technical issues related to geology, worker health and safety, mine many other stakeholders that we contribute to social stability through local planning, processing and tailings management.
Rio Tinto is represented by a employment opportunities, procurement and the transparent payment of tax senior environmental manager on the PTFI Tailings Management board, and dividends.
which meets twice a year at Grasberg and includes third-party experts.
The emphasis of Rio Tintos involvement is to promote continuous improvements Details of payments to governments are available in our report on Taxes paid in the environmental performance of the existing tailings management in 2014, which is made available on the Groups website.
Historic and ongoing improvements since Rio Tintos involvement The figures presented in this section include the Groups share of joint began include: ventures and associates.
construction, extension and maintenance of a levee system to limit the Non-managed operations and joint ventures lowlands depositional footprint: Rio Tinto holds interests in companies and joint ventures that it does not diversion of the Ajkwa River system in the lowlands out of the permitted manage, including the Escondida copper mine in Chile and the Grasberg tailings deposition area: copper-gold mine in Indonesia.
We actively engage with our partners around ongoing re-vegetation programmes in the deposition area: sustainable development through formal governance structures and technical ongoing efforts to increase tailings retention within the deposition exchanges.
In this way we endeavour to ensure that the principles in The way area: and we work are respected at all times and encourage them to embed a strong ongoing efforts to ensure that the tailings remain geochemically benign safety and security culture in their workforces.
and will therefore not pose an acid rock drainage risk.
Escondida Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in Escondida, which is managed by BHP Governance Billiton.
Our seats on the Owners Council ensure we have regular input on Human rights strategic and policy matters.
In 2014, Escondida began construction of the Rio Tinto respects and supports human rights wherever it operates in a way Escondida Water Supply project to develop a new 2,500 litre per second that is consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our human seawater desalination facility.
This project will ensure a continued water supply rights approach is founded in The way we work, our human rights policy and to sustain operations while minimising Escondidas need to use groundwater.
It is also consistent with the UN Guiding Principles on Escondida is recognised as having a world-class process for managing Business and Human Rights UNGPs.
In implementing our policies, we are significant health, safety and environmental risks.
Rio Tinto is in the process of subject to local laws.
We build on compliance with local laws and, where our adopting the Escondida process to effectively manage critical fatality risk and policies and procedures are more stringent, we operate to these standards.
has benefited from Escondidas guidance and willingness to openly share In line with the human rights due diligence process in the UNGPs, we look to its learnings.
understand our potential and actual human rights impacts, ensure we are Grasberg managing them, and communicate our performance.
We embed human rights PT Freeport Indonesia PTFI, a subsidiary of Freeport-McMoRan Inc. owns considerations into existing corporate processes including risk analysis, impact and operates the Grasberg mine in Papua, Indonesia.
Rio Tinto has a joint assessment and complaints handling and may also conduct standalone venture interest attributable to the 1995 mine expansion, which entitles it to a human rights studies where appropriate.
While we respect all internationally- 40 per cent share of production above specified levels until the end of 2021 recognised human rights, there are some issues to which we pay particularly and 40 per cent of all production after 2021.
We engage with and influence close attention because of our geographical and operating footprint.
These PTFI through five formal channels: the Operating, Technical, Communities and include: security: land access and resettlement: environment including access Sustainable Development committees and the Tailings board.
to water and sanitation: cultural heritage including the rights of Indigenous peoples: labour rights: and in-migration related impacts on local communities, Tragically, there were six industrial fatalities at PTFI in 2014: four at the including access to health services.
surface mine involving a collision between a light vehicle and a haul truck: one due to a fall of ground in the underground operation: and one due to a rollover involving a concrete mixer truck in the surface area of the operation.
We have worked closely with, and continue to support, the PTFI leadership team in the investigations and in the post-investigation lesson implementation.
In 2014 senior Rio Tinto leaders and technical specialists visited the site, shared our Groups knowledge and provided practical advice to support PTFIs actions to learn from, and avoid a recurrence of these, tragic accidents.
There was a further fatality at Grasberg in early 2015, as a result of an equipment pedestrian interaction.
d Due to rounding, sum does not equal the total shown.
com 25 Sustainable development continued We work with suppliers, contractors and other partners to avoid our We refreshed our online training to ensure it is geared more towards the risks involvement in human rights harm, and to positively influence human rights encountered by each individual.
The new system incorporates a wider range through those business relationships.
The way we work and our Procurement of shorter task-based or awareness modules, which tailor the training principles apply to all suppliers and contractors working with Rio Tinto or on its .
The principles reiterate that we oppose and prohibit forced, bonded or and elective modules.
They specify that suppliers should maintain human rights policies We are committed to a culture of transparency and speaking up about issues.
and have a process to assure compliance.
Prequalification checks, contractual We provide our businesses with internal and external channels for raising arrangements and ongoing monitoring help us to ensure that suppliers follow concerns, anonymously if required.
Speak-OUT, the Groups confidential and these principles.
 whistleblowing programme, enables employees to We provide employees an online human rights training programme.
It explains report anonymously, subject to local law, any significant concerns about the why respecting human rights is important, what human rights impacts we business or behaviour of individuals.
This could include suspicion around might have, and internal resources and mechanisms to help manage them.
safety violations, environmental procedures, human rights, financial reporting, Last year, approximately 1,500 employees, a large proportion of whom work in or business integrity issues in general.
We encourage employees to raise our Procurement function, completed this training.
We also provide sitetheir concerns to management first: Speak-OUT is always available as an specific training and in 2014 developed a training package that sites can adapt alternative option.
to address their priority human rights issues.
In 2014, 588 Speak-OUT reports were lodged, representing approximately five Rio Tinto has made voluntary commitments to the OECD Guidelines for per cent fewer than the number reported in 2013.
Multinational Enterprises, UN Global Compact and the Voluntary Principles on In line with our commitment to transparency and good governance, we issue Security and Human Rights VPSHR.
To avoid human rights violations information on the Groups operational, financial and sustainable development through our security arrangements, we provide training for security personnel performance in a timely way through a number of channels, such as media and continue to conduct security and human rights assessments at all high releases and regulatory filings.
We communicate views to governments and risk sites.
We have developed practical guidelines, toolkits and training on others on matters affecting our business interests.
Our online VPSHR training became mandatory for all security personnel at high risk sites from January 2014, and is strongly Assurance recommended for all other sites.
In 2014 we conducted in-person VPSHR and We engaged an independent external assurance organisation, Use of Force training for guards at four sites in Africa.
This training involved , to provide the board of directors of Rio Tinto plc and both private and public security.
Rio Tinto Limited with assurance on selected sustainable development subject matters, as explained on the next page.
Under our Communities standard all sites must have a complaints, disputes and grievance mechanism in place, in line with the effectiveness criteria for  assurance statement satisfies the requirements operational-level grievance mechanisms in the UNGPs.
Speak-OUT, the of subject matters 1 to 4 of the ICMM assurance procedure whilst our online Groups confidential and  whistleblowing programme, GRI report has been checked by GRI, satisfying subject matter 5 of the can also be used to lodge human rights-related complaints.
We respect the land connection of Indigenous communities and seek mutually Further information on external auditors and internal assurance is included in beneficial agreement with affected communities in the development and the Directors report under the Corporate governance section on pages 62 performance of our operations.
We strive to achieve the free, prior and and 63. informed consent of Indigenous communities as defined in the 2012 International Finance Corporation Performance Standard 7 and the 2013 ICMM Position Statement on Indigenous Peoples and Mining.
We seek consent as defined in relevant jurisdictions, and ensure agreement-making processes are consistent with such definitions.
Integrity and compliance The way we work sets out our overall commitment to integrity and compliance.
It puts our values respect, integrity, teamwork and accountability into practice, and holds us to the highest ethical standards to behave in ways that earn the trust of others.
We operate within all applicable laws and regulations and are dedicated to open and transparent dealings with our stakeholders.
Our compliance standards are core to our Integrity and Compliance programme.
In 2014, we introduced a new Business Integrity standard, which applies to all Rio Tinto businesses and functions.
Developed in consultation with compliance managers from across the businesses, it consolidates and  standards: anti-bribery due diligence: fraud: business integrity anti-corruption : and business integrity conflicts of interest.
This ensures that employees and contractors have a single point of reference for integrity and compliance matters.
The standard applies a risk-based approach, with simplified language and improved readability.
