28 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT WE ARE cOmmITTEd TO BEHAVIng R ESPOnSIBLY We could not succeed without being a At the heart of being responsible is our HOW WE ENSURE ASHTEAD REMAINS responsible business.
Being responsible commitment to health and safety which A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS builds the trust on which our business is embedded in everything we do.
Being The responsibility for ensuring Ashtead depends.
Our customers put their trust in us responsible is crucial to the well-being of remains a responsible business rests with every day to deliver the equipment they need, our people.
In addition, the larger we become, the Groups board of directors.
It is assisted on time, safe and ready to use.
Our employees the greater our potential impact on the in this function by the Group Risk Committee.
trust us to keep them safe and reward them communities and environments where we The Committee is chaired by Suzanne Wood, well for their efforts on our behalf.
Investors work, and the greater our responsibility to our finance director.
Other members of the trust us to deliver the returns we have minimise any negative effect of our operations.
Committee are: promised, increasingly into the long term.
These are the responsible business elements the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants risk So being responsible is fundamental in that are most material to our business and and safety teams: what we do.
which we discuss in detail here.
We assess UK and US counsel: why each matters, how we have performed the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants and our objectives going forward.
performance standards internal operational audit teams: and the Sunbelt board member to whom its legal counsel and safety director report.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Implementation Monitoring Training Customers and staff HEALTH COMMUNITIES AND SAFETY Community investment Helping out in emergencies OUR PEOPLE Recruitment Career development and training Reward and benefits Diversity and equal opportunities COMMUNITIES OUR PEOPLE THE ENvIRONMENT Resource efficiency Control of hazardous substances Mandatory GHG emissions reporting THE ENVIRONMENT Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 The Group Risk Committee provides the HEALTH AND SAFETY How we monitor our performance Audit Committee, and through them the Why it matters We monitor health and safety day-to-day by Board, with a comprehensive annual report Health and safety are fundamental to our the number of reported incidents that occur on its activities including new legislative business.
Keeping our people safe is during our work.
We track and analyse all requirements, details of areas identified essential.
Having safe equipment immediately incidents to enable us to identify recurrent in the year as requiring improvement, and available combined with the necessary issues and implement preventative the status of actions being taken to make training to enable the operator to use that improvements.
The importance of health and those improvements.
It also facilitates the equipment safely is what enables customers safety is reflected in the fact that the number coordination of the environmental, health, to trust us.
A strong reputation for excellent of reportable accidents is one of our groupsafety and risk management activities of health and safety is a significant competitive wide KPIs see page 19.
Last year Sunbelt had Sunbelt and A-Plant so that best practice advantage for us.
In addition, ever-changing 579 reported incidents relative to a workforce and new initiatives in one business can be regulation with its increased focus on safety of 7,375 2013: 505 incidents relative to a shared with, and adopted by, the other.
and more stringent requirements for all workforce of 6,757, whilst A-Plant had 276 operators, has contributed to our growth.
It is incidents relative to an average workforce Our commitment to the highest ethical easier and cheaper to outsource equipment of 2,370 2013: 249 incidents relative to an standards means that the Group Risk safety to us than for customers to worry average workforce of 1,949.
For the purposes Committee also works to ensure these about it themselves.
This has been an of our internal tracking, the term incident continue to be communicated and upheld important factor in the shift to rental that does not necessarily mean that an employee at Ashtead.
Our group-wide ethics and continues to drive our growth in the US and was hurt or injured.
Rather it represents an entertainment policies are communicated reinforces our position in the UK.
So health event that we want to track and report for directly to employees through dedicated and safety are at the core of what we do.
monitoring and learning purposes under our communication and training programmes.
health and safety management policies.
Whistle-blowing arrangements, in place in Our extensive health and safety programmes both the US and the UK, allow employees, monitor, develop and maintain safe working Reportable accidents continue to be defined in confidence, to raise concerns about any practices while reminding our employees of differently in the US and UK.
Under the alleged improprieties they may encounter.
the need to be safe at all times and look after relevant definitions which generally their own health.
Our continued improvement encompass more accidents in the US than in The Group Risk Committee priorities last is accomplished through a combination of the UK, Sunbelt had 163 OSHA Occupational year included: proactive safety and leadership training, Safety and Health Administration recordable assessment of the Group risk register: enhanced safety programmes and timely accidents 2013: 171 accidents which, relative incident response and investigation.
We also to total employee hours worked, gave a Total evaluation of driver behavioural help our customers ensure the safety of their Incident Rate of 1.65 2013: 1.97.
In the UK, software tools: employees.
You can find out more about our A-Plant had 25 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, continued focus on driving hours and customer focused initiatives in the section Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences vehicle fleet compliance: on customers below.
In addition, we make a Regulations 2013: 15, reportable incidents considerable annual investment in ensuring which, relative to total employee hours the prioritisation of business risks: our rental equipment meets or exceeds the worked, gave a RIDDOR reportable rate enhanced training capabilities: latest safety standards, as well as providing of 0.52 2013: 0.35.
Although the level of health and safety advice and materials along incidents per 100 employees has reduced in review, update and testing of business with each rental.
the UK, we have seen an increase in strains continuity plans: and and sprains as we have become busier, which reduction in accident rates.
30 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT cOnTInUEd customer health and safety briefings on using has impacted the RIDDOR reportable rate.
safety professionals is spread throughout the our equipment range, as well as regular In response to this increase, we have country and serves each of our operating general health and safety awareness-raising developed training focused on manual divisions to promote direct coordination with initiatives.
This helps build and maintain handling techniques which will be delivered our operational units.
This direct alignment relationships as well as providing that over the coming year to assist our employees with our operational leadership team additional level of service that infuses in carrying out their duties more safely.
streamlines safety processes, programmes everything we do.
The health and safety of In order to compare accident rates between and initiatives.
Similar initiatives are in place our customers is as important as that of our the US and UK, Sunbelt also applied the at A-Plant where we have ISO 9001 the employees.
We find that this focus plays an RIDDOR definition to its accident population Quality Standard accreditation across all important part in keeping our customers over which gave a figure this year of 90 RIDDOR our UK operations as well as ISO 14001 the long term.
reportable accidents in the US and a RIDDOR Environmental management and OHSAS reportable rate of 0.45.
We remain committed 18001 Occupational Health & Safety The focus is the same in the UK.
A-Plant to reducing these rates as much as possible.
participated in a number of major events Safety initiatives Health programmes focused on customer safety last year.
For Last year, Sunbelt delivered the fifth Having a healthy workforce has always been example, we showcased some of our safety instalment of Safety Leadership Training important to us and we work hard to look equipment on hire on the M25 Junctions 5-7 to all store managers, district managers, after our people and help them look after smart motorway project at a Skanska and regional vice presidents, and other select themselves.
When our staff are on top Balfour Beatty Joint Venture Site Safety event.
members of our management team.
The form, they provide the best service to our We participated in One Alliances annual purpose of this training was to teach customers.
Last year we expanded the Safety Stand Down event, a four day operational leaders how to establish and programmes by which we encourage our staff showcase for the latest safety products.
enhance our culture of safety within their to be healthy, particularly in the US.
Firstly we We also participated in a Kier graduate safety operations such that unsafe behaviours and launched Virgin Health Miles across Sunbelt.
day and showcased a wide range of products hazards which lead to injuries are proactively This is a programme that rewards staff for and safety initiatives as well as new products identified and mitigated.
In the coming year, healthy behaviour, so they are incentivised and innovations at an Amey open day for quarterly management reviews will be used to track their health and invest in it to reap Ameys Hampshire Highways account.
to monitor the progress of our increased the rewards that we are investing in the We also work with Balfour Beatty in the US focus on pro-active safety and safety programme on their behalf.
Staff get savings on safety and we are a true partner in their excellence with the ultimate goal of on their healthcare costs if they do exercise, efforts to achieve Zero Harm on all their Zero Harm.
Through a national agreement with With a fleet of over 2,000 commercial vehicles Secondly we are working with the Wounded Sunbelt, any telehandler delivered to a on the road in the US, transportation safety Warrior Project on various programmes Balfour Beatty construction project in the remains our greatest exposure in terms of emphasising the health and wellness of our US will have a proximity sensor installed, risk and potential for harm to our employees employees.
Our links with the services are so reducing the risk of injury associated with and the public.
In response to this ongoing particularly important at Sunbelt and you can the machines blind spot.
Recognising our risk exposure, the risk management read more about this in the section on people interest in approaching the manufacturers department continues to administer risk opposite.
We also hold various sporting to make these and other safety improvements mitigation training to counter the most events over the year to encourage healthy to equipment, Balfour Beatty is using their significant exposures.
Last year, for example, we sponsored considerable buying power to promote PACE Behavioural Driving Training, Loading a team for the Corporate Cup road race in discussion between the major manufacturers and Unloading Hazard Awareness, Driver Charlotte and we organised a relay run at our and rental companies and to lobby to make Safety Observations, our Compliments and National Management meeting getting over this equipment safer to own and operate.
Concerns feedback programme, and Fall 500 of our management team up and running.
They see our problems and concerns as Awareness Training for Drivers all reinforce their own.
As a result, our safety focus is Working on safety with our customers our commitment to transportation safety.
increasingly having an impact up the supply and suppliers chain as well.
The Sunbelt risk management department We invest significant resources in ensuring A culture of continuous improvement in consists of 15 full-time occupational health our customers use our equipment effectively, all matters health and safety related is and safety professionals whose sole role is efficiently and safely.
We regularly conduct embedded in our business and we continue to work with our field personnel to identify special safety focused events and accredited to seek ways of reducing incident rates.
This team of training courses for our customers.
We have an on-going programme of specialised Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 OUR PEOPLE stores to discuss performance and enable Why they matter employees to input into improvements as We set great store on hiring the best people, well as providing feedback on their own levels training them well and looking after them of satisfaction.
so that they provide the best possible service Recruitment for our customers.
In line with this we aim to We recruit at all levels and pride ourselves keep employee turnover as low as possible on bringing in the right people who then stay to enable us to build on the skill base we have with us for a long time.
It is perfectly possible established.
This is core to the success of the at Ashtead to go from being an apprentice on business and our competitive position and the workshop floor to the board, as has been therefore staff turnover is one of our KPIs demonstrated by A-Plant chief executive, see page 19.
The industry leading A-Plant apprenticeship programme is featured below.
In general, the rental industry suffers from Sunbelt also has very successful intern and high staff turnover, particularly within certain college hire programmes which provide us job categories such as mechanics and with a steady stream of high quality recruits.
delivery truck drivers, with turnover being In particular we work with Universal particularly high within the first year of Technical Institute UTI campuses nationwide employment.
Our staff retention has where we hold Sunbelt Days to recruit the improved in recent years and remains at best graduates.
We are looking to expand levels similar to those during the recession.
our partnership with UTI and set up an Our employees are driven, conscientious established internship programme, a tool and loyal and we like to keep them that assistance programme, the donation of way through market leading training and Sunbelt equipment for students to service, development and superior reward and and possibly, incorporate Sunbelt training benefits.
Both Sunbelt and A-Plant have into the curriculum.
extensive programmes in place to ensure high standards of recruitment, training and the appraisal, review and reward of our employees.
In addition, we endeavour consistently throughout the year to maintain and develop arrangements aimed at involving employees in the Groups affairs and hearing their views.
Regular meetings are held at A-PLANT APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMME A-Plant operates one of the most successful and highly valued apprenticeship schemes in the equipment rental industry.
Last year we received over 1,200 applications and we have recruited 46 new apprentices.
Our apprenticeship programmes take between two and three years to complete and usually include outside training and a formal NVQ qualification, in addition to on the job training.
We always look to identify areas within our business where the addition of apprentices would benefit recruitment and succession plans.
Therefore, last year we introduced new apprenticeships into our central support departments in Warrington and an electrical technical apprenticeship to support our Accommodation division.
We also have general apprenticeships in plant maintenance, customer service, electrical and driving.
The A-Plant apprenticeship programme has an impressive retention rate of over 80% compared to the industrys 66%.
Last year 15 third-year apprentices completed their training and progressed into roles within the company such as fitters, rental managers and drivers.
32 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT cOnTInUEd Military recruitment senior staff started out at entry level within At a more senior level, we actively recruit our stores and their continuity of employment military service members and veterans, is testament to our focus on employee appreciating that their experience gives development.
A very important part of our candidates a sense of discipline, dedication, training remains focused on the health and responsibility and a determination to do the safety of our employees as discussed above.
In 2013 Sunbelt was At Sunbelt we are implementing a new recognised as one of the Most Valuable Learning Management System LMS to make Employers by Civilian Jobs.
com as a result managing training courses, signing up for of our efforts.
courses and taking courses easy and intuitive.
The learning paths are set by role and In addition, we have actively searched managers have a full suite of reporting tools for candidates from the Military Spouse to help them understand how their employees network, thus providing employment are progressing in their educational journey.
opportunities for spouses of active-duty All our on-line and instructor led courses employees.
Last year saw the launch of will be housed within the new LMS which Sunbelts Military Careers Portal for current operates on a mobile platform so on-line and future applicants where we profile training will be available almost anywhere employees who have transitioned and at any time.
We find that the problem solving and community We also: service aspect of our work, especially in refreshed safety compliance training for emergency scenarios, is particularly over 3,000 employees with more than one attractive to former service personnel.
years experience: Career development and training Training and development continues continued leadership training for new throughout the careers of our employees.
service managers as well as general Their welfare and job satisfaction is training to new store managers: enormously important and our career initiated a pilot programme to establish a development programmes are designed to baseline of basic electrical and hydraulics enable staff to progress as far as they are knowledge to determine future training able and willing.
Particular emphasis is needs of our mechanics: placed on the responsibilities of our store expanded online technical training managers and workshop foremen to facilitate to mechanics: on-the-job training.
Several of our most SOME OF OUR MILITARY RECRUITS AT OUR ST. LOUIS, PUMP & POWER LOCATION Mike Siebert Sales representative US Marine Corp Jeremy Dorris Sales representative US Air Force National Guard Cary Brammer Store manager US Army John Knisley Sales representative US Army National Guard Keith Mettler Driver US Navy Reserves Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 33 ROBERT BEATHARD Sunbelt OUR SAFEST dRIVER: ROBERT BEATHARd Robert Beathard has been driving a truck Robert starts his day at 4am so he can be on for 35 years, 14 of those for Sunbelt.
In that the road when there is less traffic around time he has driven his truck over a million and he also loads colleagues trailers before miles all without a single incident.
He exemplifies our commitment to the very highest levels of health and safety on the job.
Large, modern trucking fleet 34 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT cOnTInUEd developed our sales training in a number Reward and benefits Diversity and equal opportunities of districts: and We believe in treating our staff well and We work hard to ensure equal opportunities rewarding them for the effort they put in for all our staff, as well as prioritising continued our commercial motor vehicle on our behalf.
We use a combination of employment diversity.
Our recruitment training to over 1,000 drivers and other competitive fixed pay and attractive incentive comes predominantly from the areas staff.
programmes to reward and motivate staff immediately around our facilities thereby At A-Plant we are working with our and these drive our profits and return providing opportunities for local people.
We competitors to produce an industry specific on investment.
Our sales force is also make every reasonable effort to give disabled national driver training programme and we incentivised through our commission plans applicants and existing employees becoming have 13 candidates on the pilot programme.
which are based on sales, both volume and disabled, opportunities for work, training and The programme has three pathways price achieved, and a broad measure of return career development in keeping with their van, rigid and articulated to cover all on investment determined by reference to aptitudes and abilities.
We do not discriminate requirements.
The full programme will start equipment type and discount level.
against any individual on the basis of a late 2014 and will replace the current driver protected status, such as sex, colour, race, We flex our incentive plans to reflect the qualification.
Our Upskilling the Workforce religion, native origin or age.
stage of the cycle in which we operate which programme has been very successful and In the US we are required by law to monitor we believe has been an important element though not mandatory is very well subscribed.
ethnicity in our workforce every year and we in retaining the confidence of our workforce Programmes cover rental managers, drivers, maintain a diverse workforce.
We also gather through the economic cycle.
In addition to foremen and yard staff working towards ethnicity data as part of the recruitment their core benefits, including pension and accredited qualifications.
We also have two process in the UK and through an Equality life assurance arrangements, we have an management development programmes and Inclusion Survey to monitor our diversity.
employee assistance helpline which offers which are offered in conjunction with the Increasingly, many local authority and public free confidential support and advice to Chartered Management Institute and our those in need.
We also have other benefits sector tenders request this kind of own professional management programme such as Virgin Health Miles to promote good information.
We are committed to providing which consists of workshops in-house for health amongst our employees, which is opportunities for people from all ethnic those who aspire to be managers or gain discussed on page 30. groups and in both geographies we have new management skills.
good representation from ethnic minorities across the organisation.
JAMES SCOTT, OUR STAR APPRENTICE James Scott is a great example of what talent, commitment and excellent training can achieve.
James is a newly qualified A-Plant fitter from Cornwall who has just completed his plant maintenance apprenticeship.
James completed a return journey of 600 miles to attend Reaseheath College in Cheshire, on a four-week block release course which entailed him staying at college and being away from his family.
His dedication and technical skills as an engineer have paid off and he has won a number of awards, including Winner of Construction Plant Hire Associations Stars of the Future in both the regional and national categories.
He plays a vital role in the success of the Bodmin depot where he works.
Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35 A-PLANT LUx RACES TO HELP While our industry has traditionally had many Sunbelt IN THE COMMUNITY more men than women, we do have women at The work we are doing with the Wounded all levels in both the US and UK including on Warrior Project supports our wellness focus A-Plant Lux was contacted by Lodge Hill the Board, on the senior management team as well as providing community involvement Centre, an outdoor and education site which and as store managers, sales executives and opportunities for our employees.
We are offers residential and conference facilities in apprentices.
While we prioritise recruiting the building the link between the wellness of our the South Downs National Park.
The centre best people for every role, we are working to staff and wider wellness within the needed help to re-build a go-kart track to make it easier for more women to join the community.
We also participate in the Holiday accommodate children and young people organisation, particularly as we expand.
Mail for Heroes campaign, where we sign and with disabilities and mobility restrictions.
complete cards which are sent to troops in WORKFORCE BY GENDER The local Ford store supported the project by war zones for the holidays.
Raising our profile donating old traffic light heads and a variety Number of employees Male Female Female % in the community in this way is completely of road signs to make the track come to life.
consistent with our desire to do more in Board directors 9 1 10% A-Plant staff visited the site, helped with the terms of the quality of life of our staff and Senior management 15 1 6% set-up and delivered the equipment in their their families.
All staff 9,109 831 8% own time a great example of helping the Our stores regularly support and participate community where we work.
HUMAN RIGHTS in local charity events and community service.
At Ashtead we believe in the rights of We recently sponsored a 50km bicycle ride individuals and take our responsibilities for Joe DiMaggio Childrens Hospital and we seriously to all our employees and those who are a major sponsor every year of the may be affected by our activities.
Our policies Charlotte Heart Ball which raises money are discussed in more detail under Health for cardiovascular research, education and and safety page 29, Our people page 31, outreach programmes for the American Communities page 35 and The environment Heart Association.
We provide support to page 36.
These principles form part of our many community sporting events, sponsoring way of doing business and are embedded in a local softball team in Dallas and various our operations.
Thus, while we do not manage charity golf tournaments across the country.
human rights matters separately, we continue to assess potential risks but do not believe We also continue to work closely with our they raise particular issues for the business.
designated charitable partner, the American Red Cross and its affiliates, such as the COMMUNITIES Second Harvest Food Bank for which we have Why they matter a food drive every November.
We allow The communities in which we operate have employees to make payroll deductions to always been important to Ashtead.
As we contribute to the American Red Cross or the expand our market share, particularly in the Sunbelt Employee Relief Fund.
US, the communities where we hire and make an economic contribution increase alongside A-Plant the number of our locations.
Our responsibility A-Plant is part of the Princes Trust to those communities increases likewise.
Construction and Business Services In addition, our staff feel pride in working for Leadership Group.
The Princes Trust is the Ashtead because of the feeling of community Prince of Waless charity, supporting 13 to service that they have.
Our business is about 30 year-olds who are unemployed or helping people and getting things done.
It is struggling at school and at risk of exclusion.
about finding solutions, especially when there With our support the charity has now helped has been an emergency or a disaster like a over 2,800 young people towards a career major flood or a hurricane, for example.
in the construction sector and 52% of these Contributing to the communities where we young people have gone into a job with a operate is an important differentiating factor further 21% going into additional training.
for Ashtead staff as well as being attractive We also continue to work with CRASH, the to new recruits.
We find that our ex-service construction industrys charity for homeless personnel in particular really appreciate people.
As a patron of this organisation, we this aspect of our work.
Well over half of help improve hostels, day centres, night our staff in the US have served their country shelters, training centres and move-on in the past.
Initiatives last year included support for the Emmaus Community homeless development project in Sussex, providing equipment for the erection of a garden centre.
36 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT cOnTInUEd At a local level, our stores across the country repainting of equipment can be conducted BEFORE are involved in initiatives on a weekly basis.
safely and securely: and bunded fuel tanks For example, our Liverpool centre helped to ensure secure fuelling of our fleet and, transform a run-down community centre where relevant, vehicles: in Warrington by providing free equipment ensuring proper arrangements are made, including tower scaffolding, access through the use of reputable vendors, for equipment, step-ups and ladders, to enable the collection and disposal of waste fuels the exterior of the centre to be repainted.
We and oils, tyres and other old or broken regularly help deserving families and groups parts released as we service and maintain with building projects through our association our rental fleets: with the BBCs DIY SOS: The Big Build.
These investing in a modern and efficient delivery include the renovation of The Yard, the only truck fleet which enables us to ensure that indoor and outdoor adventure play centre for AFTER our vehicles are purchased with regard for disabled children and young people in the good emissions management and fuel east of Scotland.
Our Maidstone store turned efficiency: one of our old accommodation units into a log cabin for the local Valley Conservation ensuring, wherever practicable, that we Society for the benefit of residents, wildlife control noise and potential disruption in and visitors.
See before and after images and around our stores so as not to unduly to the left.
impact the communities immediately THE ENvIRONMENT surrounding them: and Why it matters reducing our waste to landfill by As mentioned elsewhere, a major priority significantly increasing the amount of of our corporate strategy is to increase our waste that goes to recycling.
As we establish more stores Greenhouse gas emissions and develop our service offering, our impact We have supported the initiatives of the on the environment increases.
We are Carbon Disclosure Project in the cognisant of this and make every effort management of carbon dioxide emissions and to limit any negative impact we may have have reported on our carbon emissions in the course of our work.
This helps us save voluntarily for a number of years now and on costs, on any potential damage to our sought to reduce these over time.
Under the reputation and also helps build that level of Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors trust which our customers require.
It also Reports Regulations 2013 we are now helps our staff to feel good about where they mandated to report greenhouse gas GHG work and helps to build good relationships emissions data.
As we are a growing business with the communities around our centres.
with aggressive expansion plans, our We seek to fulfil our environmental absolute GHG emissions will necessarily obligations through: increase.
However, we continue to evaluate how best we can limit that increase and monitoring and managing compliance with mitigate the impact.
relevant environmental regulations such as the introduction of Tier 4 engines in the Our Scope 1 fuel combustion and operation US and requirements and carrying out of facilities and Scope 2 purchased self-audits to maintain compliance: electricity GHG emissions are reported below.
We have opted not to report Scope 3 investing in the regular renewal of our emissions due to the difficulty in gathering rental fleets to ensure that the equipment accurate and reliable information.
The we provide to our customers incorporates majority of these arise through our the latest environmental technology customers use of our equipment on their available from our chosen manufacturers, sites and projects.
where possible: ensuring that our stores are adequately equipped to operate in a safe and secure way, protective of the environment.
Key matters covered are: wash-down bays to collect and safely dispose of materials released when we inspect and clean equipment returned from rent: enclosed paint booths and spray shops to ensure that Strategic report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37 GHG EMISSION BY GHG PROTOCOL SCOPE Emergency preparation Greener equipment tCO2e YEAR We have improved our emergency We are increasingly investing in greener preparation capability in the US this year.
We equipment, sometimes as a result of customer 2014 2013 have set up emergency response contracts demand.
Recent purchases in the US include Scope 1 162,874 147,411 with three US vendors and a network of local dry-ice blasters, natural gas generators, Scope 2 29,762 25,158 contractors to improve our response times solar light towers and dual fuel man lifts Total 192,636 172,569 in the event of any emergency and we file using propane as a fuel source.
This is in reports with state and local emergency addition to the general shift to Tier 4 tCO2e year defined as tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year.
coordinators on the chemicals kept at our compliant fleet purchases.
In order to calculate the GHG emissions, locations.
We have also invested in improved In the UK to meet increasing demand for we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate storage for our oils and fuel and provide full environmentally friendly and energy saving Accounting and Reporting Standard hazardous materials management guides to temporary accommodation, we have revised edition, together with emission all our staff and online training modules on developed a range of Green Specification factors from the UK Governments GHG spill response.
These units Conversion Factors for Company Reporting Clean air incorporate a multitude of energy saving 2014, as well as the US Environmental Our integration of the new Tier 4 lower devices, including increased insulation levels, Protection Agency.
By May 2015 heavy duty door closers, passive infrared we will have over 14,000 Tier 4 engines in the PIR low energy fluorescent lighting, double In the UK, we collect data from all Scope 1 fleet valued at over $1bn and we continue glazed windows, dual flush toilets, waterless and Scope 2 vendors and hence, there is training our staff on the proper maintenance urinals and thermostatically timed heaters.
In the US, due to the of these to minimise harmful emissions.
These units allow construction companies size of our operation, we collect data from We have also been working to reduce the fuel and other customers to reduce site energy the significant vendors and then use this used to meet customer delivery demands consumption without adversely affecting the to estimate emissions attributable to the with a view to further reducing emissions welfare of their teams.
At April 2014, approximately 13% of as well as costs.
the Sunbelt emissions balance was estimated.
A-Plant also continued its investment in We are also required to give an intensity ratio Resource efficiency Power Cube, an innovative new battery as appropriate for our business.
Our level of We have been upgrading our lighting across generator that works alongside our current GHG emissions vary with our activity levels our US stores, reducing energy demand while power generation fleet and offers customers and we have concluded that the most improving safety with better lighting.
We are significant fuel savings, reductions in carbon appropriate intensity ratio for Ashtead is also evaluating installing solar energy at footprint and the ability to remotely monitor revenue intensity.
Our intensity metric is several of our stores where we believe costs energy usage.
The Power Cube can be used therefore an indication of emissions per 1 could be reduced as well as energy use.
Oil is on its own or in conjunction with a generator of revenue tCO e. recycled in all our stores.
It is collected by or mains supply, and can be supplied as 2 contractors and either refined for use as road-towable, static or even with a solar lubricant or burned for energy.
The use of batteries is a relatively 2014 2013 some of our oil ourselves, burning it in new concept for power generation in the Revenue intensity ratio 117.8 126.7 specially designed burners to generate heat.
hire industry, but the Power Cube offers In addition, we have been working with our significant benefits over traditional lead-acid The majority of our revenue is in dollars drivers to evaluate and limit idling time as batteries and diesel generators.
The gel and so the reported ratio is affected by the far as possible, again to save on energy costs batteries in the Power Cube have a high exchange rate.
On a constant currency basis and reduce emissions.
energy density which allows for the using this years average exchange rate our consumption of all stored energy, offer totally intensity ratio has reduced from 128.6 last silent running and have a long life cycle.
Environmental initiatives This year we have continued our work to improve environmental efficiency across the Group.
We now include environmental audit GEOFF DRABBLE SUZANNE WOOD questions within our regular safety audits at CHIEF ExECUTIvE FINANCE DIRECTOR Sunbelt, so we are better able to monitor 16 June 2014 environmental compliance.
