Directors Report SAFETY AND ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT The attendance at the separate Safety and Ethics Committee meetings during the year is shown below: SAFETY Members Attendance in 2014 Sir Frank Chapman Chairman 2 2 Iain Conn retired 1 May 2014 n a Lee Hsien Yang 2 2 John McAdam 1 2 ETHICS Members Attendance in 2014 Sir Frank Chapman Chairman 2 2 Dame Helen Alexander 3 3 Lewis Booth CBE 3 3 Iain Conn retired 1 May 2014 1 1 During the year, it was agreed that the Groups Safety and Ethics Lee Hsien Yang 2 3 Committees would be combined with effect from 1 January 2015 Jasmin Staiblin 3 3 and, to that end, I assumed the chairmanship of both committees, taking over from Iain Conn as Chairman of the Ethics Committee Committee Chairman until 1 May 2014 in May 2014.
I would like to express my thanks to Iain Conn for his support.
SAFETY PRODUCT SAFETY COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE Our Aerospace and Land & Sea Divisions supply high-value products The combined committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors, that peoples lives depend upon.
These products have to meet our own Sir Frank Chapman Chairman, Dame Helen Alexander, Lee Hsien internal standards and strict regulatory requirements with regards Yang and John McAdam, and will meet at least four times a year.
The Product Safety policy describes five principles that govern our approach: leadership commitment and accountability: Working with the other members over the course of the year, level of product safety: maintaining and improving product safety: I have very much valued the way they apply their personal conforming product: and, safety awareness and competence.
The experience and am convinced that we have the right combination safety management system SMS links these to our operational of skills for securing rigorous independent review of our safety processes.
An overview of the key elements is shown below and this and ethics practices.
provides a framework for our product safety governance work.
Responsibilities SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SMS OVERVIEW maintaining an understanding of, and keeping under review, the Groups COMPANY OBJECTIVE frameworks for the effective governance of safety and ethics Provide products and services that meet or exceed regulatory requirements, overseeing and reviewing annually safety and ethics policies achieving the high standard of safety we require and our customers expect.
reviewing progress reports on implementation of annual plans and Continuously pursue opportunities to improve the safety of our products.
programmes reviewing compliance with relevant legislation and regulation in relation STRATEGIES PRODUCT SAFETY POLICY PRINCIPLES to safety and ethics and the environment Clear leadership and management accountabilities and commitment.
reviewing key performance indicators in relation to safety and ethics Continuously improve product safety in design.
ensuring appropriate training is provided for all employees in relation to safety and ethics Raise the level of product safety by setting higher standards, correcting issues and learning from experience.
Improve product quality to support product safety.
The new terms of reference for the combined committee are Safety awareness and competence for all our people.
available on the Groups website.
KEY ENABLERS The role of the committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its CAPABILITY ROLLS-ROYCE METHODS ORGANISATIONAL oversight responsibilities in respect of all aspects of safety and MANAGEMENT AND STANDARDS STRUCTURES Competence ethics as detailed in the following sections.
SYSTEM Rolls-Royce Product Safety and capacity High consequence specific and Boards group processes external Quality Boards Process Councils 66 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Global Code of Conduct Directors Report The Safety Committee conducted a thorough review of our product GLOBAL CODE OF CONDUCT safety approach during 2014 including receiving detailed briefings GLOBAL CODE on the SMS and the safety assurance framework.
In part the objective was to make sure all committee members are fully familiar with We reviewed updates on the Global Code our process framework.
Also we used this walk through as an roll-out and training programmes.
By the opportunity for management to ensure that the processes can end of 2014, 96% of all employees had be readily understood and communicated, and for sharing our provided certification in respect of the experience of similar processes from companies we have worked Global Code.
The roll-out of the Global Code with.
This detailed review will continue during 2015. in Power Systems commenced in 2014.
Whilst we are satisfied with this level of In respect of the policy of continuous improvement, the committee completion, the committee is looking reviewed progress with a significant product safety programme at the reasons behind the outstanding gaps.
aimed at improvements to our parts classification process.
In addition we extended the committees understanding of product safety risks The Red Flag Group, a US company that outside of the Aerospace activities, focusing on Marine activities.
provides consulting and governance We kept under review the product safety metrics emanating from training to help companies manage risk, has managements safety boards and managements response to ranked Rolls-Royce third amongst significant product safety events.
Important highlights were the FTSE 100 companies that had their code brought to the attention of the Board.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT The committee received reports on the HS&E risk profile, improvements currently being implemented in the HS&E 96% management system, periodic performance trends and a new balanced scorecard together with major incident investigation of employees have reports.
The committee reviewed the insights from serious chemical certified that they incidents which occurred during the year at our Crosspointe and have read and Indianapolis facilities in the US.
Common themes were identified from understood the the investigations that were carried out and improvements were Global Code of identified that will help to strengthen controls across the Group.
Conduct We agreed to a rolling agenda of HS&E topics for future discussion and reviewed the Group level HS&E risk profile to assess levels of control and current improvement and assurance priorities and programmes.
In 2015, the committee will continue oversight of Group Discover more online www.
com sustainability better HS&E across the three strategic areas of people and culture, business ethics management systems and risk based improvement programmes.
In both areas of product safety and HS&E, we have been very pleased with the open-minded and constructive approach management have exhibited in looking for opportunities to learn from the committees experience of practice elsewhere.
I was pleased to note that the external review of the Boards work highlighted the efforts made by both management and the committee to undertake a rigorous review and to work together to consider any opportunities for strengthening our approach.
A high-performance safety culture with sound The committee discussed HS&E and process safety leadership and and ethical business culture, and creating the right environment for effective management systems and risk control.
We also considered progress with significant practices wherever we programmes, most notably the Group-wide electrical safety operate is being embedded enhancement initiative.
Further information on HS&E performance can be found in Sustainability on pages 45 to 47. in everything that we do.
67 Directors Report SAFETY AND ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED SECURITY formed in 2014, review all high-risk cases, analyse the contact The committee received a briefing on personnel security matters trends and provide updates to the committee highlighting for employees travelling to higher-risk regions and how the any high-risk cases.
Where appropriate we share cases with Group reviews operational security for those regions.
travellers complete mandatory in-house e-learning courses before travelling to regions where specific security risks have The committee fully recognises the importance of the Board been identified.
showing leadership around ethical and behavioural standards.
We have committed significant board time to the issue during the ETHICS year and have taken steps to send clear messages, including all REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS directors completing the ethics training course.
Lord Gold has We reported last year that the Serious Fraud Office SFO had begun regularly discussed his work with both the Board and the a formal investigation.
The committee received regular updates on committee.
As part of the review of the Boards effectiveness, our the regulatory investigations.
The Group is continuing to cooperate approach was considered by Independent Audit who recognised fully with the authorities in the UK, US and elsewhere.
As the the structured and committed approach taken by the Board over investigation is still ongoing we are unable to give any further the course of the year.
We are now turning our attention to working details or a timescale when the investigation will conclude.
out the most effective way of monitoring policy and process implementation and gauging behaviour and attitudes so that the LORD GOLDS REVIEW Board can be confident that the right values and attitudes are being The Group has continued to implement the recommendations consistently reflected in the way we work.
made in Lord Golds interim report in 2013 and has developed an ethics and compliance improvement programme to deliver the CONCLUSION Safety in Rolls-Royce is given the highest priority for our customers, recommendations.
In December 2014, Lord Gold issued a second those affected by the operation of our products, our people and the interim report and the recommendations made in that report have communities in which we work.
Overall, product safety and HS&E been accepted by the Company and incorporated into the performance is improving, but as we strive for continuously improvement plan.
improving standards there is still more we can and will do.
During the year, we received updates on this improvement The Board has been explicit that improper business conduct will programme and the Group has made good progress.
Throughout not be tolerated and disciplinary action will be taken against the year, Lord Gold and the director of risk have held focus groups anyone not adhering to the ethics and compliance policies.
made up of employees throughout our domestic and international We are making excellent progress with our ethics programme.
operations to obtain feedback on the Groups ethics and compliance improvement programmes.
A high-performance safety culture with sound and ethical business practices wherever we operate is being embedded in everything ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICIES ABC that we do in order to underpin long-term sustainability and to We reviewed progress made by the ABC compliance team who deliver to all stakeholders our brand promise of trusted to completed a review of all of the Groups current advisers, reducing deliver excellence.
All advisers must comply with the Groups new adviser policy.
SIR FRANK CHAPMAN Chairman of the Safety and Ethics Committee During 2014, the ABC compliance team reviewed, issued and updated a suite of new Group-wide mandated policies including: a new Group ABC policy: advisers: confidential information: gifts and hospitality: and facilitation payments.
The majority of the revised ABC policies were issued in 2014 with the balance issued in January 2015.
A further ABC training programme will be rolled out to all staff in 2015.
The size, structure and skills of the ethics and ABC compliance team were reviewed to ensure that the composition of the team is appropriate for the demands placed upon it.
ETHICS LINE We reviewed effectiveness of the Companys 24 7 confidential reporting line the Ethics Line which, since its relaunch last year, has seen calls rise significantly from the 2013 level of 588 to the 2014 level of 850.
This is thought to be mainly due to improving awareness and engagement across the Group following the Global Code roll-out and mandatory ethics training.
The oversight group, 68 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014
