Strategic Report OUR PEOPLE The engagement of our CELEBRATING SUCCESS: AWARD WINNERS STORIES people is essential to the success of our strategy.
SIMPLE TOUCH SCREEN TO HELP MARINE CUSTOMERS MARINE LESUND, NORWAY On the bridge of a marine customers ship, the team from lesund saw the array of different panels, uncoordinated operating systems and audible alerts that face our customers every day.
They saw first-hand what could be a source of frustration, fatigue and a trigger for human error.
The team redesigned an overlay to the operating system.
This coordinated, both functionally and visually, the range of essential controls via a simplified touch screen to provide a unified bridge design.
100% RIGHT-FIRST-TIME DISC PRODUCTION SUPPLY CHAIN WASHINGTON, UK In 2014 we launched the Trusted to Deliver The 100 million investment in the HighExcellence Awards.
Over 500 submissions were Performance Disc Manufacturing facility received, each of which demonstrates the talent, in Washington set the record for the fastest innovation, commitment and ambition of new Rolls-Royce facility build in the Groups Rolls-Royce men and women.
A combination of state-of-the-art equipment, training and up-skilling programmes has established a culture of The achievements of all the entries that resulted continuous improvement.
This has resulted in the final award winners showcased here, prove in 100% right-first-time production and it whats possible when we put ourselves in means that the discs, which are integral to gas turbine engines, can be delivered in half customers shoes.
The delighted right-first-time team from Washington, UK.
image: our advanced new unified bridge design for an offshore support vessel.
42 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report CHALLENGING CONVENTIONAL IMPROVED TURBINE BLADE THINKING QUALITY AT LESS COST ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY SUPPLY CHAIN UK AND GERMANY ROTHERHAM, UK The engineering and technology team A new standard has been achieved in the discovered that by challenging traditional high-performance turbine blade industry thinking about how air flows through a at the Advanced Blade Casting Facility in SAVING CUSTOMERS MONTHS compressor, they could measurably improve Rotherham.
Lead times and scrap rates are OF TIME IN COMMISSIONING fuel efficiency.
They started with numerical on-track to be halved.
The team integrated, flow simulations and then worked with sharpened and automated critical stages in NUCLEAR teams across the globe to decrease air the manufacturing process and, in so doing, DERBY, UK leakage and improve performance.
For our improved the production precision of our customers, the result means less energy lost complex single crystal turbine blades.
For The UK team that supports the build of the and improved long-term fuel efficiency for our customers, it means a perfect blade Astute class of nuclear submarines has cut their engines.
The technology has already delivered more efficiently, more quickly and the time and cost of delivery dramatically.
been deployed in the Trent XWB engine and at a dramatically reduced production cost.
The complex pipework and valve systems will be followed by testing on Boeing 787 require a flushing process that used to take and A350-1000 aircraft.
a total of 190 days to complete.
Following on-site visits, our team saw the opportunity MONITORING THRUSTERS AT SEA to collaborate with our partners to redesign TO PLAN MAINTENANCE the process.
The initial time required for STANDING IN OUR CUSTOMERS ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY most flush paths was reduced from 60 SHOES UK AND FINLAND hours to just one.
This will save the CIVIL SMALL & MEDIUM ENGINES customer four months of commissioning MONTREAL, CANADA Azimuth thrusters give marine and offshore time per submarine.
It means delivery of the vessels superior manoeuvrability.
Our ability same high-quality submarines quicker and Every quarter, the Montreal team rolls out to assess the health of these thrusters at sea at a lower cost to the UK Government, one a red carpet on the factory floor.
Employees saves our customers time and money by of our most important customers.
from across the business stand up in front of preventing unscheduled and unnecessary their colleagues, role-playing the customers maintenance.
Until now, technology hasnt view of what we deliver to them.
Employees been able to monitor thrusters in small and audition to tell the stories behind the order medium-sized ships which represent 80% forms and engine part serial numbers.
Others of the marine market.
volunteer to follow customers orders through the manufacturing process from order to Working in collaboration, our Strategic shipment.
This innovative approach is Research Centre, Marine Services Azimuth spurring new highs in employee engagement, Thruster team and the University of creating a deeper understanding of what our Sheffields Technology Centre came up with customers need and has increased customer the Thruster Wireless Link.
The new satisfaction by almost 10%.
technology enables us to read the vital signs of all our operating thrusters on all sizes of The winners from Montreal get the red carpet treatment themselves as they pick up their award.
It also opens a new, We need to work with lucrative market for our services.
For people who make the whole customers, it means the ability to plan production process smarter and maintenance three to six months ahead more cost effective.
People like of time and avoid costly propulsion failures at sea.
Nicole Piasecki, VP and General Manager, Propulsion Systems Division of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, presented the awards to the winners.
