STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES STRATEGIC RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Where a competitor decides to use cost savings to Rotork already has a direct presence, in terms of Competition on price as a result reduce their selling prices, this could lead to a reduction production, sales and service support, in many low cost of an existing competitor in the general market price.
Rotork might need to locations and regularly reviews opportunities in other moving to manufacture in a respond to a change in market price levels whilst still countries.
There is a constant drive to maintain lower cost area of the world.
maintaining the price premium currently enjoyed for differentiation from the competition both in terms of some products.
This could impact our market share the quality of our products and of the service we and would impact our ability to grow the Group provide and thus ensure that price is not the only revenue.
means of gaining a competitive advantage.
In order to be able to compete on a project, our Development of products, or acquisition of companies Not having the appropriate products must meet both the necessary specification with products, to meet the required market driven products, either in terms of and pricing level.
A failure on either count could harm specifications and broaden our product portfolio is an features or costs.
our competitive position and result in us not winning ongoing activity as is the drive to take cost out of our the project.
products to meet target pricing levels.
A reduction in capital or maintenance expenditure in Identification of potential new end-markets or ones Lower investment in Rotorks one of Rotorks key market sectors would result in a which are becoming more active takes place in each traditional market sectors.
smaller addressable market, which in turn could lead to location and is coordinated at divisional level.
This is a reduction in revenue from that sector.
supported by product development and innovation to address new markets and new applications in existing markets.
At a Group level our geographic and endmarket diversification provides resilience to a reduction in any one area or market.
38 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information OPERATIONAL RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Replacement of defective components or complete A comprehensive set of quality control procedures Major in field product failure units would give rise to a direct financial cost and there operates over suppliers.
These include supplier visits, arising from a component could also be a reputational risk.
This in turn could audits and a scorecard system to measure their defect or warranty issue which impact our ability to achieve premium pricing.
In some markets legislation determines might require a product recall.
that this risk is entirely passed to the end-user.
Our global service coverage ensures that any product failure issues could be dealt with quickly and efficiently to minimise any reputational impact.
Where customer delivery expectations are not met, Dual sourcing for key components wherever possible Failure of a key supplier or a this could lead to financial penalties and damage provides the best mitigation for key suppliers.
Regular tooling failure at a supplier customer relationships.
monitoring and replacement of tooling at all suppliers causing disruption to planned reduces the risk of a tooling failure.
maintained at a sufficient level to protect against short-term disruption.
Whilst growth opportunities, cost savings and During the due diligence process a 100 day plan is Failure of an acquisition to synergies are identified prior to completion, these may prepared to manage the important initial stages of deliver the growth or synergies not always be delivered at the levels anticipated or to integration.
Consideration is given to the composition anticipated, due to incorrect the timetable expected following the acquisition.
and skills of the management team with the necessary assumptions or changing Although these benefits are usually not priced into the training and support provided by a variety of Rotork market conditions, or failure to purchase consideration, a significant personnel.
This should ensure an effective integration integrate an acquisition to underperformance could lead to an impairment of the and communication of Rotorks policies and ensure compliance with associated intangible assets.
procedures, whilst monitoring delivery of the financial Rotorks policies and plan.
Sensitive data is stored and transmitted electronically Rotork has a range of measures in place to monitor and Failure of IT security systems to around the world.
The Group is therefore exposed to mitigate this risk.
prevent penetration by the risk of data loss by cyber attack.
This data might unauthorised people and contain technically or commercially sensitive access to commercially information which would provide a competitor with an sensitive data.
FINANCIAL RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Significant fluctuations in exchange rates could have an A clear treasury hedging policy addresses short-term Volatility of exchange rates adverse impact on Rotorks reported results and risk and this works together with the natural hedging would impact Rotorks reported adversely affect the pricing point of our products in provided by the geographical spread of operations, results and competitive other currencies.
Whilst this will protect against position.
some of the transaction exposure our reported results would still be impacted by the translation of our non-UK operations.
Disruption of normal business activity would impact The wide geographic spread of Rotorks operations and Political instability in a key our sales in that country and might ultimately lead to customers diminishes the impact of any one market on end-market.
loss of any assets located in that country as well.
the results of the Group as a whole.
The amount of the deficit may be adversely affected by Both defined benefit schemes are closed to new Growth of the defined benefit a number of factors including investment returns, members, with the UK scheme closed in January 2003. pension scheme deficit.
long-term interest rates, price inflation and members The Group and trustees monitor the performance of longevity.
This in turn might lead to a requirement for the scheme regularly, taking actuarial and investment the Company to increase cash contributions to the advice as appropriate.
The results of these reviews are schemes.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 39 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE 3,469 DIRECT PRESENCE IN 37 COUNTRIES 40 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information Rotork believes that being a responsible business leads to being the best business, which can benefit operational effectiveness, develop industry leading products, grow the business and build on the trust of stakeholders.
Sustainability lies at the heart of our business and Ethics and Values Community Involvement Rotork is dedicated to making a positive impact Ethics and values are fundamental to the way The Group considers it important to contribute around the world to ensure the Group continues to in which we do business.
Respecting and engage positively in the communities it be successful in the long-term.
The ongoing internationally proclaimed human rights, operates in, to be a good community neighbour commitment to embed Corporate Social promoting an open and honest culture, around the world and as a corporate entity, Responsibility CSR across all processes and the way having a zero tolerance approach to bribery community involvement is part of that it operates is something that Rotork is proud of.
and corruption worldwide, and selecting responsibility.
One of our corporate values is to suppliers with sound reputations in the produce a positive and beneficial impact in the This report sets out our policies, procedures and marketplace are important aspects for the areas in which we operate and more details on systems on how we manage our impact on the Group to adhere to.
More details of the community involvement can be found on pages environment, how we conduct our business, how Groups ethics and values can be found on 50 to 51. we provide a safe working environment and how we pages 46 to 47. work with the local community in which we operate.
The Group understands that shareholders are Health and Safety becoming increasingly focused on CSR issues so The Groups approach is focused around four main The health and safety of all employees and we take into account the Guidelines on Social themes: contractors is of paramount importance in Responsibility issued by the Association of British providing a safe working environment.
The Group has been a member of the The Environment fundamental principle, if you cannot do a job UN Global Compact since 2003 and continues to Rotork is fully committed to reducing its impact on safely, we will not do the job, is actively be included in the FTSE4Good index.
the environment by preventing pollution in all promoted to everyone.
This ensures that our territories in which it operates, and to make sure it people remain safe and we enhance the Rotork believes that the approach it takes to is compliant with any relevant legal or regulatory effectiveness of our workforce by reducing the CSR helps to meet the expectations of our requirements.
By complying it contributes to help risk of injury and costs associated with injury stakeholders and contributes to the success of sustain the environment, and it brings cost or illness.
The Groups approach to health and our corporate strategy by promoting an savings by reducing the consumption of energy, safety can be found on pages 48 to 49. effective and sustainable business.
The environmental programme is described in more detail on pages The Chief Executive chairs the CSR Committee 42 to 45. and reports progress to the Board.
The CSR Committee is a management committee, which has four sub-committees with each representing one of the aspects of CSR described below.
Presentations are given by the Chairmen of the four sub-committees to the Board on activity and progress in their areas of CSR during the year.
The diagram below sets out our CSR structure.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Ethics Social Issues Environmental Health & Safety Committe Committee Committee Committee ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 41 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL Introduction RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Rotork is fully committed to the prevention of pollution, to comply with all relevant legal or regulatory requirements and to reduce our environmental footprint by targeting key areas such as energy consumption, water consumption and waste.
We continue with our assembly only philosophy in the majority of our business units where we utilise specialist suppliers for most of our manufactured components and assemblies.
This philosophy has resulted with the majority of our energy being used on lighting, heating and cooling and IT systems, and a small amount of energy is used on machining processes.
As a responsible global entity we continue to influence the environmental performance of our supply chain through our supplier assessment programme.
Corporate Objectives There is a corporate objective of a 3% reduction in tonnes of CO generated in Scope 1 and 2 Scope 2 emissions per m turnover.
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have increased from 17.9tnCO e in 2013 to 19.21tnCO e in 2014, an 2 2 increase of 7.3%.
This increase is due to electricity and gas consumption at our new acquisitions and additional consumption at our existing facilities.
Progress The baseline year remains at 2012.
A number of new acquisitions occurred during 2013 and 2014 that have affected overall energy consumption but like-for-like figures have been published to show the underlying trends in the organisation.
Leeds UK charity race to raise money for Jane Tomlinson appeal.
42 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ENVIRONMENT Energy Consumption ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION MWh ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION MWh ABSOLUTE EXCLUDING NEW ACQUISITIONS Due to the growth of the organisation during 2014 absolute electricity consumption increased 12.7% on the 2013 figures and was 12,605 also a 12.6% increase on the baseline year.
11,184 11,193 11,193 10,961 10,498 Absolute gas consumption showed a slight increase of 1.1% on the previous year but was a significant increase of 29.5% on the baseline year.
This can be directly linked to weather conditions which have driven up gas usage in the USA since 2012.
Absolute Liquid Petroleum Gas LPG consumption showed a decrease of 55.5% on 2013 and a decrease of 14.3% on the 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 baseline year.
GAS CONSUMPTION kwh GAS CONSUMPTION kwh On sites excluding new acquisitions, during ABSOLUTE EXCLUDING NEW ACQUISITIONS 2014 electricity showed an increase of 4.4% based on 2013 but a 2% decrease on the 769,310 baseline year.
Gas showed a 4.7% decrease on 760,628 710,277 2013 but a 13.9% increase on the baseline year.
There are a number of energy related projects that are currently underway or have recently been completed which will start to show benefits in 2015.
Some of the energy projects include installing energy efficient lighting in our 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Nottingham UK, Melle Germany and Rochester USA facilities.
The changes will reduce our energy consumption by LPG CONSUMPTION lt LPG CONSUMPTION lt approximately 50% per fixture.
This has allowed ABSOLUTE EXCLUDING NEW ACQUISITIONS some of our more energy intensive sites, such as Rochester USA to cut electricity 760,628 consumption by up to 30%.
Projects like this not only offer reduced energy consumption and the associated reduction in carbon emissions, but also provide a reduction on operating costs for 430,065 394,478 394,478 the lighting and reduced maintenance costs.
338,178 335,505 As we develop new sites or upgrade our existing sites we will be introducing energy efficient solutions into the building design.
This will help to reduce the environmental impact of our 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 business in the future.
Houston USA donates funds and non-perishable items to the local food bank.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 43 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT Water Consumption Waste and Recycling SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS TnCO2e ABSOLUTE Absolute water consumption across the Group There are a number of local programmes in has increased by 11.1% on 2013s consumption place to promote recycling and reduce waste.
On like-for-like Our facility at Houston USA ran an event in 10,341 9,844 sites the consumption remained fairly static November to separate different types of scrap with a 1% increase on 2013 consumption but a metals, this has improved our recycling and 54% 51% 5% decrease on the baseline year.
The majority given a higher return from the waste that was 55% of water consumption is for domestic purposes produced.
Similar projects have yielded an only, though there are some additional overall recycling rate of 76.6% during 2014, requirements related to process water in a small compared to a recycling rate of 71.4% in 2013 number of our sites.
Any reduction in these and 73.6% in 2012.
46% 49% 45% processes are not expected to have a significant impact on the overall water consumption.
2012 2013 2014 Scope 1 Scope 2 3 WATER CONSUMPTION m WASTE RECYCLING % SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS TnCO2e ABSOLUTE EXCLUDING NEW ACQUISITIONS 10,321 9,844 9,850 39,801 77 74 35,822 35,471 71 53% 51% 53% 49% 47% 47% 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Scope 1 Scope 2 3 WATER CONSUMPTION m EXCLUDING NEW ACQUISITIONS Environmental Incidents There have been no reportable environmental Greenhouse gas is measured across three incidents during 2014.
Systems are in place to different scopes: address any environmental incident that occurs 35,471 33,778 33,365 at our facilities and the robustness of these Scope 1: Emissions that are direct GHG emergency systems are included as part of our emissions from sources that are owned or internal audit system.
controlled by Rotork, these include emissions from fossil fuels burned on site, emissions from Greenhouse Gas Reporting owned or leased vehicles, and other direct In January 2015 EEF undertook an assurance sources.
audit of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG report.
The business reports on GHG Emissions Scope 2: Emissions are indirect GHG emissions 2012 2013 2014 in line with the GHG Emissions Protocol resulting from the generation of electricity, developed jointly by the World Business Council heating and cooling, or steam generated for Sustainable Development and the World off-site but purchased for heating.
Highlights from the audit will be detailed in the Annual Environmental Report Scope 3: Emissions include indirect GHG that will be published during 2015 and available emissions from sources not owned or directly on Rotork.
controlled by the entity but related to the entitys activities.
Scope 3 GHG emission sources currently required for GHG reporting include transmission and distribution T&D losses associated with purchased electricity and steam and well-to-tank emissions for all energy, business travel and transport.
44 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information There has been an increase of absolute emissions across scopes 1 and 2 by 10.4% on 2013s rates and an increase of 15.9% on the absolute emissions in the baseline year.
When excluding new acquisitions scope 1 and 2 emissions increase by 3.8% on 2013 and 3.8% on the baseline year.
Summary of progress Though the emissions have increased as the size of the business has increased there are a number of projects that will start to show benefit through 2015.
The like-for-like sites have remained fairly static in electricity consumption and decreases in gas and LPG consumption based on last year.
Years 2012 and 2013 were utilised to understand the data that was available to the business.
In 2014 projects were formulated and started to be implemented and during 2015 should start to show a reduction in our GHG emissions.
Further projects are planned during 2015 to assist in the CASE STUDY reduction of GHG emissions.
NEW MANUFACTURING FACILITY IN LEEDS Changes in temperature can account for some Energy saving is paramount within Rotorks facilities, and the of the increase in utility consumption.
Changes Rotork UK site in Leeds is a prime example of this consideration.
in the GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting which is published by the Lighting provides a significant saving Natural ventilation in the factory utilises Department of Energy and Climate Change opportunity, so throughout the factory and automatic roof and wall louvres to provide DECC can account for some of the increase in offices the new facility has been fitted with cooling air movement in summer months.
In some regions that Rotork occupancy sensing luminaires that dim these are controlled by a Building Management operates there was an increase of 10% on the automatically as natural light levels increase.
System for optimal comfort and minimum emission factors compared to the previous year.
Fresh air supplied to the office is tempered by energy use.
energy recovered from the extracted air: 2015 Targets saving energy in both winter and summer.
A number of projects will be targeted at our highest GHG emission sites whilst some behavioural projects will be rolled out across the business to assist in achieving a target of a 3% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions normalised by turnover.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 45 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE ETHICS AND VALUES SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Overview Ethics and values are central to the way we do business.
The Groups Ethics and Values Statement can be viewed on our website, in a number of languages, at www.
com en investors index ethicsvalues.
Our ethics and values can be split into four strands: Human Rights and Ethical Business The Group is fully committed to respecting internationally proclaimed human rights as defined in the International Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisations standards.
The Group does not accept any form of child or forced labour and embracing the UN Global Compact principles throughout the business is a demonstration of this commitment.
The Group recognises that an open and honest culture is key to understanding concerns within the business and promises to uncover and investigate any potential wrongdoing.
The Group has a whistleblowing policy with an independent external whistleblowing hotline to facilitate the reporting of any concerns of wrongdoing confidentially.
Employees The Group has a firm commitment to all its employees regarding wellbeing and development.
Many of the Groups offices provide health checks for their employees, as well as encouraging participation in sports teams or one-off charitable events.
More details regarding charitable activities can be found in the Community Involvement section of this CSR report.
Bath UK took part in Its a Knockout to raise money for WaterAid.
Rotork has an objective and fair recruitment process which promotes equal opportunities across the Group in-line with the Respect at Work and Equality of Opportunity policy.
Rotork is committed to the principle of equal opportunities in employment to ensure that no employee or job applicant receives less favourable treatment on their age, race, nationality, ethnic origin, disability, sex, sexual orientation, religion, belief or marital status.
All employees therefore have responsibilities to ensure that the policy is successfully implemented including ensuring that selection for hiring, promotion, training and work allocation is carried out in a non-discriminatory manner.
Employee views and direct communication are part of our values and we run employee suggestion schemes, an annual Group wide Employee Satisfaction Survey ESS and several locations have employee forums where employees can raise issues to be further considered by management.
46 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information Employees are briefed by management on various operating in higher risk jurisdictions or market Progress matters including the Companys performance at sectors.
The Group makes use of objective A further 16 existing suppliers and all new regular intervals as well as the employee bonus guidance on country risk, such as the Corruption suppliers to Rotorks Bath manufacturing performance which is profit related.
Most Perception Index by Transparency International.
facility were assessed: locations participate in the Companys employee When working with the unknown third party, and A FTSE4Good score of 3.8 out of 5 was profit linked share schemes.
after the initial detailed background checks, the achieved: Group also continually screens these third Presentations relating to bribery and Rotork has built a strong partnership with the parties against a large number of international corruption were given by senior Institute of Mechanical Engineers IMechE to sources which could detect unethical behaviour management and the Groups legal support its engineers in gaining Incorporated including watchlists, sanctions lists and the department to Group accountants, internal and Chartered accreditation and Rotork media using its due diligence consultants auditors, general managers and sales continues to work with IMechE.
Leeds has an proprietary databases.
These third parties are managers: IMechE Industrial Liaison team who support also subject to continual screening.
The whistleblowing policy was members of the institution and they help to communicated to all employees in every promote it internally and to the wider The Group has developed and delivered edition of the internal Rotork e-newsletter: engineering community.
anti-bribery and corruption training including an and assessment to all employees working in sales Bribery and corruption training was rolled The Group supports apprenticeship schemes for and purchasing roles as well as to senior out to relevant employees in French, Italian, young men and women which helps to increase accountants, all managers and directors Japanese, Portuguese, Russian and Thai, in access into all aspects of the Groups business.
including executive and non-executive addition to English, Korean, German, Spanish directors.
The anti-bribery and corruption and Chinese.
Full details of Rotorks diversity policy and training is delivered as an e-learning module.
targets can be found in the corporate The course has been made available in 2015 Targets governance report on page 58. numerous languages and almost 100% of Further increasing awareness of bribery and employees required to complete the course corruption issues by circulating information Bribery and Corruption have done so within the required period, to agents in the form of a tailored booklet: The Group has a zero tolerance policy on bribery including those in new acquisitions.
Continue to make progress in increasing and corruption worldwide, irrespective of diversity across the Group: country or business culture.
The Groups Ethics Suppliers Ensure the Group diversity policy in its and Values statement makes clear that our The Group has continued to operate an broadest sense is communicated across the employees will never offer, pay or solicit bribes outsourced manufacturing model, selecting Group: and in any form and is published on the Groups suppliers with sound reputations in the Continue to communicate the website in a number of languages.
Many of the suppliers have a whistleblowing policy regularly through the does not make political contributions in cash or long-term working relationship with the Rotork e-newsletter.
kind anywhere in the world.
Company, ensuring ingrained product knowledge within the supply chain.
The Groups whistleblowing policy, which can be Suppliers are subject to continuous automated found on Rotorks website, gives whistleblowers online monitoring against sanctions lists, a platform to alert senior management, watchlists, regulatory and court records and a anonymously if the employee wishes, to any large number of national and international suspected bribery or corruption, through an media sources and the Company is alerted independent, external hotline if necessary.
The where any derogatory information is uncovered.
Group has an open culture which allows employees to raise concerns to management in The supplier assessment programme includes various ways, as set out in the whistleblowing CSR themed questions associated with equal policy.
All whistleblowing concerns however rights and equal pay, anti-bribery and corruption received are investigated and reported to the policies, charitable giving, environmental impact Audit Committee.
During 2014 the hotline and anti-compulsory or child labour practices.
received five calls covering issues related to These surveys consider current and prospective health and safety and employment issues.
The assessments are discussed were resolved satisfactorily.
The ESS for 2014 directly with the suppliers and any corrective showed an increased understanding of how to action plan is agreed between the Company and raise a wrongdoing concern using the the supplier.
During the year further steps were then taken to publicise and promote Rotork Controls Limited and Rotork UK Limited, the hotline.
the Groups main UK trading companies, and Rotork plc, are signatories to the Prompt The Group makes use of detailed background Payment Code.
This ensures suppliers are paid checks provided by specialist bribery and according to the terms agreed and this corruption due diligence consultants before encourages good practice to be passed down dealing with unknown third parties including supply chains.
agents, prospective acquisitions and suppliers ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 47 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE HEALTH AND SAFETY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Overview Rotork is fully committed to the health and safety of its employees and contractors.
We ensure compliance to all relevant legal and regulatory requirements and strive to continuously improve our health and safety performance.
Policies, procedures and systems of safe working are in place, supported with training to ensure the health, safety and welfare of our employees during their working day.
The Health and Safety Policy was reviewed and approved in February of 2014 by the Chief Executive.
Fundamental Principles As the business continues to grow both organically and through acquisition, the fundamental principle of If we cannot do a job safely, we will not do the job is maintained and communicated to all those who work for or on behalf of Rotork.
Progress The target for 2014 was to have an Accident Frequency Rate AFR below 0.42.
The actual AFR for 2014 was 0.31 which is a decrease of 6% on the previous year and a decrease of 44% since 2009.
ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE AFR 0.56 0.46 0.46 0.38 Dallas USA Toys for Tots campaign.
0.33 0.31 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The AFR is a calculation of accidents resulting in over three days lost time, divided by the average hours worked, multiplied by 100,000.
The number of days lost due to workplace injuries decreased by 33% but the number of minor accidents has increased by 24% on the previous year.
48 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information Occupational Health There have been no occupational diseases reported during 2014.
Case Study Examples Gears Houston A Lean Six Sigma project introduced 7S standards that involved a detailed review of the operational workspace that assessed and made improvements on layouts, general housekeeping, cleaning routines, scheduled preventative maintenance and all associated training.
This programme will support other work that is ongoing to reduce the risk of injury and help maintain a healthy workplace.
Controls Singapore A number of activities to reduce the risk of fire were carried out including upgrading electrical systems, fire extinguisher exercises for all employees, improvements in housekeeping standards that included a designated outside smoking area with a safety bin and improved storage of combustible materials.
Awards and Recognition To ensure high standards of health and safety performance, a number of businesses within the Rotork Group have gained or have maintained certification to OHSAS18001.
These include Houston USA supports the Court Appointed Special Advocates for Children CASA.
facilities in Leeds UK, Wolverhampton UK and Singapore.
Assurance Activities Employee Satisfaction Survey During 2014 compliance audits were conducted During 2014 75% of the workforce completed at 62 of our facilities.
On equivalent sites there an employee satisfaction survey.
The question, was a slight decrease in the score achieved from I believe that Rotork cares about my health and 86% to 85%, this is believed to be down to the safety, had overall satisfaction of 80%, a slight interpretation of different auditors.
Our newly increase of 1% on the previous year.
The acquired sites scored a lower average of 80%.
question, In the last year, I have seen actions Where sections of the business do not perform taken to maintain safety at my workplace, saw to the required standard corrective actions are an increase from 77% to 79%.
identified and tracked to closure.
During 2014 there were no actions raised that would require Summary of Progress immediate attention by the local management Throughout the year we continued to keep teams.
health and safety as a priority for employees and contractors as can be seen by the positive A proposal to re-balance the audit protocol to results in the employee satisfaction survey.
We ensure a greater consistency in scoring and to must continue to learn from events, audits and focus on risk management processes and inspections to continually improve our health control was agreed by the CSR committee in and safety performance.
As we move forward December of 2014. we will be looking to improve our processes and will look at innovative practices to improve our health and safety performance.
2015 Targets The method adopted to set the AFR target is the calculated average of the previous three years AFR results, this sets the AFR target for 2015 as 0.36.
