32 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility Our sustainability story As a global force in rigid plastic packaging, we are committed to incorporating sustainability into our overall business strategy and helping our customers to achieve their environmental goals.
Since our inception we have been constantly developing innovative packaging solutions that provide sustainability benets for our own direct operations, our customers and our supply chain.
for more information on our story and sustainability news go to our website: www.
com sustainability Some sustainability highlights from the past year included inthis report: z Innovations to reduce product loss such as the z Becoming a member of the SAVE FOOD Flakefree container from RPC Superfos initiative to highlight and ght global food loss and waste z Continued innovations to lightweight packaging and provide product protection z Receiving the Green Idea Prize for the Bornholms packaging solution for z Measurement of the Groups greenhouse sh products gas emissions z The development and production of a 100% recycled content 20 litre container Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 The packaging lifecycle As a packaging manufacturer, RPC has greatest control over the earliest stages of the packaging lifecycle.
However, the inuence of our actions at the design stage reaches far beyond, to the customer and even the recycling opportunities at the end-of-life stage.
RPC is taking positive steps to tackle sustainability challenges and the packaging lifecycle diagram shows the most significant environmental impacts throughout the supply chain which we can control or inuence.
34 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Product design, development and innovation Lightweighting example of this is shown in the case study of the Flakefree solution which aims to reduce Across the industry, packaging has become paint losses.
progressively lighter while still maintaining the same technical performance.
RPC has managed Substitution to reduce weights of packaging across all three of RPC has developed a number of packs which its manufacturing processes through significant provide a lighter weight and safer alternative to investments in tooling, process changes and heavier materials for applications such as sauces, machinery alongside developments in materials.
baby food and catering ingredients.
More than This has been achieved while maintaining the 50% of all products manufactured in Europe are technical capability of the packaging and ensuring packed in plastics.
According to weight however, that it is able to carry out its primary function plastics account for only 17% of the total of of protecting a product throughout all stages packaging materials used.
The use of plastic for ofsupply, distribution and use.
packaging can reduce the environmental impacts Product Protection of packs by: reducing resource consumption, reduced carbon footprint in comparison to heavier Case study Product protection is the key role of packaging packs and improved transport impacts.
and RPCs packaging solutions make an FlakeFree technology important contribution to preserving products A market sector where the lightweight nature of reduces product waste andreducing waste.
plastic is particularly beneficial is the Foodservice market, an example of which can be seen in the The use of innovative multi-layer packaging RPC Superfos has created the award Citres Spa case study.
within the Group ensures that products have a winning FlakeFree feature for containers prolonged shelf-life.
This has not only helped to Recycled Content and lids to reduce the amount of paint reduce the energy demands on refrigeration in The Groups work in this area has included the that is wasted during use.
Research found retail and home environments but also ensures development of packs incorporating recycled that dry paint aking off into the paint food remains fresh on shelf, reducing spoilage PP, PET and HDPE.
We continue to focus on from the rim and lid of the container on andthe high environmental impact associated increasing the amount of recycled content in re-opening resulted in reduced quality with food waste.
packaging where it is a suitable replacement for of paint and the potential for wasted Aside from barrier solutions for food products the virgin material.
An example of a pack introduced product.
The FlakeFree containers and Group is also active in developments to reduce this year containing 100% recycled content can lids have a granular texture on the inside product loss in other markets.
An innovative beseen on page 37. which prevents dry akes from falling into the content.
Sustainability benets: Case study t Reduction in product waste through the use of a FlakeFree textured lid or container to eliminate dry akes in Citres see plastic as foodservice the paint.
packaging of the future t Container is resealable with assurance that the contents will remain high quality Citres Spa, the Italian food specialist in pickles, Sustainability benets: on re-opening.
pesti and sauces, is pioneering the supply of its t Lightweight, safe and practical products in new polypropylene jars produced by t Plastic makes the pack lightweight t Long shelf-life of up to 36 months RPC Corby and RPC Kutenholz with lids supplied and stackable which reduces the underambient conditions by RPC Halstead.
The 1kg, 2.3kg and 3.7kg size transportation impact of this type t Resealable container to keep jars are blow moulded with a multi-layer PP of container.
productsfreshand reduce EVOH PP construction that allows the contents food waste to be pasteurised and sterilised.
t Lower carbon footprint of packaging in comparison to heavier materials t Jar is recyclable after use Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Manufacturing our direct environmental impacts Energy Eciency packaging for the pharmaceutical and healthcare Electricity usage per tonne markets increases the complexity of the Approximately two-thirds of the carbon footprint KWH T manufacturing processes which offsets energy of our products is from the raw materials we use.
efficiency measures that have been put in place.
Our first point of focus is to utilise these materials 1,935 1% as efficiently and economically as possible.
Water Eciency The remaining one-third is embedded in the Water is an important part of the manufacturing energy required at the processing stage when we process, primarily as a cooling agent.
convert plastic granules or ake into packaging.
2,013 1,999 1,897 1,925 1,935 Improvements have been made across the Plastic packaging manufacturing, by its nature, is Group to reduce water usage or to re-use it energy intensive.
within a closed-loop system which reduces RPC is constantly working to improve the energy evaporative losses.
efficiency of our manufacturing processes Waste and Recycling through efficiency projects ranging from lighting Polymer is a valuable resource and our sites alterations to replacing older manufacturing 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 operate at a high efficiency in terms of salvaging machines with more energy efficient models.
Any material that cannot be This year the Group kWh tonne electricity re-used is segregated and collected for recycling.
consumption has slightly increased in comparison The same applies to many other materials that Water usage per tonne to last year.
The Group strategy to lightweight we handle such as scrap metal, cardboard L T packaging adversely affects the electricity KPI as boxes tubes, wooden pallets and shrink wrap.
the same amount of energy is required to run the We are making good progress on the reduction 704 0% processing machines but with a lower throughput ofwaste disposal.
Lightweighting benets are seen at other stages of the packaging lifecycle such as reduced raw material consumption and lower 876 761 717 706 704 transportation impacts.
Alongside lightweighting the Group strategy to increase the production of higher added value products such as multi-layer packaging for the food market and complex 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 Under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Scope 1 Emissions Fuel combustion, refrigerant losses, Directors Reports Regulations 2013, RPC Group operation of company owned and leased vehicles 26,017 is required to report its annual greenhouse gas Scope 2 Emissions Electricity 223,036 GHG emissions.
Total GHG Emissions 249,053 Methodology Intensity ratio: Tonne of CO e per 1m of revenue 238 Emissions were calculated on an operational 2 control approach using The Greenhouse Included Activities Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and GHG emissions from the purchase of electricity, Reporting Standard with additional guidance combustion of fuel, operation of facilities e. g. and emissions factors derived from DEFRA and refrigerant losses and the operation of company DECCs UK Government conversion factors for owned and leased vehicles.
36 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Distribution, retail and use The distribution, retail and use stages of the Retail and Use Stages of the Packaging Through the Groups membership of The lifecycle is an area where we have a minimal Packaging Federation and The Industry Council Lifecycle direct inuence on environmental impacts.
for Packaging and the Environment Incpen the The primary role of packaging within the retail At these lifecycle stages our packaging is handled Group also supports a UK based campaign named environment is to protect, secure and deliver the predominantly by the retail supply chain and the Fresher for Longer.
The aim of the campaign product contents.
We strive to offer our customers consumer, however, we still have some control is to communicate to members of the public the most appropriate sustainable solution for their over impacts at these phases.
the vital role that packaging plays in ensuring product in order to minimise environmental impact that food arrives in the consumers home in as at this stage of the supply chain.
The foundations Distribution fresh condition as possible and also the role for this have been achieved at the design, Transport of nished products is an area over that packaging has in keeping products fresh in development and innovation stage as detailed on which we do not have a significant amount of the home.
page 34 which determines the impact throughout control as it is dependent on where the goods the rest of the supply chain.
Both of these initiatives ideally complement and need to be delivered.
The Group is focused on support the Groups sustainability programme, ways of improving distribution, for example, by At this stage of the lifecycle, product loss, including the development of sustainable increasing full loads of deliveries, identifying particularly in the food sector, is a major packaging solutions that keep food fresher areas where back loads could be used in the environmental impact.
Each year, worldwide, for longer.
transport network so that vehicles are not empty a third of all food is thrown away or lost, while on return journeys and co-ordinating logistics at the same time around 842 million people are within geographic regions.
In 2013, RPC joined the SAVE FOOD initiative, a joint campaign organised by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and Messe Dsseldorf to highlight and ght global food loss and waste.
The initiative now has over 100 members from throughout the food supply chain who, through networking events and ongoing dialogue and discussion, aim to develop solutions to tackle the problems of food waste.
Case study Bornholms plastic pack gets Green Idea Prize The sustainable benets of switching With this solution, Bornholms kills three birds packaging from metal to plastic have been with one stone.
The lid makes it easy for the end underlined by the awarding of the prestigious user to store leftover cod roe directly in the pack Green Idea Prize 2013 to Bornholms for its which avoids food waste.
The more efficient new plastic customised packaging solution for logistics connected to the new pack means that cod roe from RPC Superfos.
Bornholms contributes with less CO emission 2 and the shape and the design of the pack makes it The Green Idea Prize, organised by leading much easier for the end-user to open the pack and Danish supermarket Coop, is one of the most take out the cod roe.
important of its kind in Denmark.
Jury member Sren Rahbek stergaard of the Danish The new packaging was developed especially Technological Institute summed up the for Bornholms by RPC Superfos and features an environmental benets of replacing a metal effective oxygen barrier for extended ambient can with a plastic pack: shelf-life.
This is achieved by using virgin material approved for treatment under high temperatures and for autoclaving together with an embedded barrier label that covers the entire pack.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 End of life solutions for plastic packaging Our desire to improve the performance of the RPC has been working with the recycling industry The use of PCR and PIR diverts end-of-life packaging we manufacture does not end when for many years, collaborating with organisations plastic from landll and also reduces energy the packaging leaves our sites.
We have also such as the Waste & Resources Action demand in comparison with the sourcing of virgin taken a proactive stance with customers in Programme WRAP and Recoup to research raw materials.
If it doesnt make economic or designing packaging to optimise re-use and and develop the use of post-consumer recycled environmental sense to recycle then the Group recyclability as well as to ensure end-of-life PCR material and post-industrial recycled PIR supports energy recovery from plastics through collection of packaging.
material in packaging as well as to improve the energy from waste incineration.
The case recyclability of the packaging produced within study below illustrates a product development As a Group we are keen to promote the collection the Group.
from the last year that is produced from 100% of post-consumer packaging for recycling into new recycled plastic.
The supply chain approach tosustainability As one part of the supply chain we recognise that This participation allows us to keep up to date in relation to sustainability we cannot always act on developments in the latest elds, offer our alone and as such we actively participate as a expertise in manufacturing to these groups and member or partner of a number of organisations.
also to form collaborative partnerships to develop sustainable solutions for packaging.
Our efforts in the sustainability eld have also been recognised through our inclusion in the FTSE4Good listing.
Case study 20 litre drum incorporates 100% recycled plastic RPC Containers UKSC has produced the first 20 Sustainability benets: litre drum to be made exclusively from recycled t Blow moulded in 100% recycled HDPE plastic sourced from both post-consumer and t Generates an end market for recycled plastic post-industrial reclaimed material, including that is not suitable for use in food packaging a large part from automotive manufacture.
The HDPE blow moulded drum was developed for t Diverts plastic from landll or incineration JCB services to package a range of hydraulic and t Container can be re-used for oil and other lubricating oils.
applications following correct washing and cleansing procedures t Pack performance and functionality is not compromised 38 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Health and Safety RPCs efforts to bring the safety of its people For the Hand Safety theme, each site received These policies are set out in a Code of Business to the forefront of its activities has continued a presentation explaining common types and Conduct which can be read in full on the Groups in 2013 14 with a step change in the visible causes of hand injury, experienced within the website www.
commitment to safety from the senior Group along with real solutions which have been Each business within the Group is expected to management of the Group and the communication developed and successfully implemented to operate with policies and procedures which are of this to our manufacturing operations.
The information consistent with the Groups values and standards.
Our efforts during the current year have been has been used in a variety of ways across the In all dealings, all employees and other persons concentrated on driving through this cultural Group, from identifying and clarifying tasks in the acting on behalf of the Group are expected to: change to ensure safety is always a top priority in health and safety plan, informing sites health and our businesses.
safety committees, to forming the basis of a site t engage in honest and ethical conduct, including safety improvement campaign.
the ethical handling of actual or apparent There has been an increase in the number of conicts of interest between personal and safety tours carried out by senior management Willis RPC Blue Safety Programme professional relationships: at all of our sites and these have observed an The RPC Blue Safety programme has continued improvement in safety behaviour.
Despite this t maintain effective procedures to prevent to develop according to the needs of the evolving heightened awareness there was an upswing condential information being misused or used Group.
In 2013 we introduced a two tier auditing in reportable accidents in the early part of the for personal gain: system in order to ensure that we continue year.
The measures put in place to counter this to develop safety further in our already high t advance the legitimate interests of the Group, have achieved a much lower rate of reportable performing sites.
having regard to the Groups values and accidents in the last half of the year.
standards, as set out in the Code: The Tier A audits are an in depth process focusing Safety Principles on the factory oor processes, operations and t comply with all applicable laws, rules and training and have identied underlying areas RPCs Safety Principles, which have been regulations in every country in which the where improvement is necessary.
The change approved by the Executive Committee were Group operates: also identied country to country differences in introduced in September.
A copy of these t treat customers fairly, openly and honestly: standards.
Tier B audits will continue to be carried principles was provided to every employee in their out with the object of improving safety at all local language to reinforce the clear message that t be intolerant of discrimination, harassment other sites.
we never compromise on safety.
These principles or victimisation: are now displayed in the reception of every site as Accident Statistics t maintain high standards of integrity in business a clear statement of the Groups commitment to relationships with suppliers: and In the UK, the downwards trend continues, improving safety.
with 2013 being the lowest year ever.
RPCs t encourage the use of those suppliers who Safety Week reportable accident frequency rate UK sites operate with values and standards equivalent During November all of the sites took part in a was signicantly 38% below the UK plastics to the Groups.
series of events designed to focus on ingraining industry average.
The Group does not employ child or forced labour safety across all of the Groups operations.
Several of our sites have gone over a thousand in any of its operations.
A child is as dened in the Building on the success from previous years, using days without a reportable accident with RPC International Labour Organisation Convention.
the slogan Be Alert, Dont Get Hurt as the basis Barplas having achieved 3,000 days without a for the week.
Employees All of the Groups sites involved their employees Training and development In our mainland European sites, we suffered and their families in informative and fun activities setbacks in our lost time accident frequency rate.
Employees are provided with training in order designed to raise awareness of the benets of We intend to make a considerable impact in this to give them the necessary skills to perform working safely and of looking out for each other.
region in 2014 15 by sharing the best practices their duties and where appropriate to develop The potential consequences of unsafe behaviour and principles which are already embedded in the those skills and progress their career.
Competitions with a safety UK operations.
invests in a range of development activities based theme were organised at our sites for including NVQs and apprenticeship schemes employees and their families.
Ethics and supports other professional and technical The Group aims to act responsibly and with Quarterly Safety Themes training.
The Group recruits a number of trainees integrity, respecting the laws and regulations every year in a wide range of disciplines including Quarterly safety themes have been introduced of all the countries within which it operates as electronic engineering, warehouse logistics and with the objective of concentrating on specic well as internationally accepted standards of toolmakers with the training in these programmes areas of safe cultures and practices throughout responsible business conduct.
The Group requires lasting up to three years.
The first two quarters of this new high standards of professional and ethical conduct initiative have covered Hand Safety and Personal from all employees, ofcers and directors.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 In 2013 RPC Oakham established an in-house Customers and Suppliers Human Rights apprenticeship programme to benefit the regional The Group seeks to be honest and fair in its The Board supports human rights and expects cluster of companies within the RPC Group.
relationships with customers and suppliers, to our sites to comply with the relevant legislation, The overall objective of the apprentice program provide customers with standards of product including that relating to the workplace, of the in the UK is to develop new talent entering and service that have been agreed and to pay jurisdiction or country in which they operate.
the RPC business by focusing on fundamental suppliers and sub-contractors on agreed terms.
We recognise that we have a responsibility engineering principles, and develop individuals to It is Group policy to maintain accreditation to to ensure that human rights are upheld in our management roles.
the quality management standard ISO 9001 and supply chain.
Where our supply chain is generally One of our new acquisitions, Maynard & Harris encourage operating units to gain accreditation located in the countries or regions in which has its own apprenticeship programme, taking on to any specic standards required by the markets we operate, we will engage with suppliers a further 12 apprentices this year.
served or by customers such as the British Retail who source products or materials from at risk Consortium and Institute of Packaging BRC IOP countries to promote compliance with relevant 13 trainees at RPC Bebo Deventer have passed Food Packaging Standard.
Currently 38 of the local legislation.
their operator exams and five trainees at Groups manufacturing operations have ISO 9001 RPC Formatec have been awarded their IHK accreditation and 26 operating units have BRC examination certicates with three getting IOP accreditation.
P R M Vervaat special distinction in the form of a diploma for Chief Executive excellent work.
Community 09 June 2014 Diversity The Board supports initiatives by operating units to engage with their local community.
The Group promotes equal opportunities for Operating units and their staff participate in all present and potential employees and does a variety of local activities including projects not discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic with local schools, charity events and factory origin, age, gender, race, religion, political or open days.
other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
The gender diversity of the Group at 31 March RPC Bebo Bremervrde welcomed 23 young 2014 is shown in the table below.
people to its site during the year to give them an insight into future employment possibilities.
Communication The Future Prospects for Girls and Boys initiative The Group established a European Works brings together employers, schools and other Council in 1998 which meets once a year and a organisations to give young people a taste of the steering committee that meets four times a year.
The European Works Council brings together employee representatives from across the Groups operations to discuss business matters with senior Managers within the Group including Board members.
This involves the provision of information concerning the Group, consultation and discussions.
In addition there are national and site-based works councils or employee forums that discuss more local business matters.
An employee newsletter Perspectives is issued regularly in five languages.
Employees are Safety notices, similar to this at RPC encouraged to make their views known to the Tedeco-Gizeh UK are displayed at directors and senior management of the Group.
