Strategic Review Employees The current profile of the Groups employees presented in accordance with the Groups segmentation during the year and the changes over that period are as detailed below.
Group 2014 2013 Average number of employees Energy 809 620 Built and Natural Environment Europe 2,452 2,403 Built and Natural Environment North America 276 228 Australia Asia Pacific 882 947 Central 111 108 Group total 4,530 4,306 Employment statistics Days absent % 2 2 Average length of service years 6 7 Working part time % 11 11 Retention rate % 81 82 Female 1,621 1,456 Male 2,909 2,850 Female % 35 33 Male % 65 67 Age profile % % Employees aged under 25 7 8 Employees aged 25-29 15 15 Employees aged 30-49 55 55 Employees aged 50 23 22 Excluding redundancies.
The attraction, retention and motivation of high calibre employees is of strategic importance for the Group.
To achieve this, businesses maintain appropriate remuneration structures as well as an environment in which employees are able to develop their skills in a way that can be applied to our clients requirements.
Each of the businesses has the remit to put in place arrangements that meet their specific demands whilst working within a framework of structures and systems that are overseen at Group level.
Human resource professionals are employed throughout the Group to support the achievement of this objective.
The Executive Directors have overall accountability for the development of human resource practice within the businesses for which they are individually responsible.
The gender profile of the Groups employees is shown above.
As noted in the Corporate Governance Report two of the members of the Group Board are female.
This currently represents slightly less than 25% of the directors, although on retirement of John Bennett from the Board later this year this will increase to 25%.
Of the senior management group that is comprised of directors of the companies that are included in the Group consolidation, 44 are male and 3 are female.
Building an environment in which employees feel engaged with their business and the Group as a whole is of great importance in particular to ensure the successful integration of newly acquired businesses.
We use the Group intranet as a means to communicate the Groups business developments and achievements as well as policies and procedures.
Corporate newsletters also facilitate this flow of information.
New employees receive an induction and regular staff appraisals facilitate open communication between employer and employee as well as identifying developmental needs.
com 13 The Group operates share plans across all its businesses aimed at giving employees a tangible interest in the Groups overall performance.
Share purchase plans are accordingly open to the vast majority of our employees and enable them to purchase shares in the Company with the benefit of a matching share contribution from the Company.
A performance share plan is also operated for more senior employees, which offers the potential to build a significant interest in the Company over a number of years.
The Group is committed to the training and development of its employees to enable them to realise their potential and effectiveness.
Divisional directors and project managers are responsible for the management of training and verification of technical competence for project personnel in accordance with our quality management systems.
Continuing professional development is of particular importance for our professional employees who are required to demonstrate technical competence within their specific sectors.
Given the wide range of technical areas in which we are engaged this involves supporting training schemes across a range of disciplines both in-house and through professional bodies.
Within our UK water business, for example, customer service training is delivered in conjunction with the Institute of Customer Services, whilst a post graduate certificate in urban drainage is supported and accredited through Derby University.
In The Netherlands in-house training courses include project management, customer relationships and team leadership.
The Group also provides training to the oil and gas sector through its Training Unit and which assists in providing technical training within the Group.
During 2014 RPS continued its long-term practice of supporting staff in pursuing relevant higher education courses.
This involved sponsoring courses at universities and colleges across the United Kingdom, Ireland, The Netherlands, USA and Australia.
Vacant positions within the Group are, wherever possible, filled from within and our developmental and training programmes support this objective.
RPS provides equal opportunities for all its employees and potential employees regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, trans-gender status, religion or belief, marital status, civil partnership status, pregnancy, age, disability, race, colour, nationality, national or ethnic origins.
The policy applies to the process of recruitment and selection, promotion, training and development, conditions of work, pay and benefits and to every other aspect of employment.
The Groups policies in relation to health and safety are described on pages 15 and 16.
