44 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 People An employer of choice around the world Road safety in South Africa In South Africa, driving is hazardous: there are 27.5 fatalities per 100,000 people, more than twice the rate of the USA and more than seven times that of the UK.
With a fleet of more than 5,000 vehicles in primary and secondary distribution, and almost 1,700 used by our salesforce, many of our employees are on the road.
In September we launched a ZAR5.8 million US$0.6 million driver safety programme to equip our drivers with improved skills in defensive, safe and economical driving.
Drivers spend a day on the road with a specialist assessor who analyses their strengths and weaknesses and provides on-the-spot coaching as required and attend two days of classroom-based activities, learning safe driving techniques and working through real-life traffic scenarios, including hazards such as driving in the wet or on rural roads.
The programme aims to reach every driver within two years, with ongoing refreshers provided to maintain the new standards.
Over the next five years our aim is to reduce accidents per million kilometres driven by 60%.
We also expect to see a full return on investment in the form of reduced accident damage to vehicles, fewer insurance claims and less maintenance downtime.
Most importantly, by equipping our drivers to deal with the daily hazards encountered behind the wheel, we will keep our employees safer and contribute to overall road safety.
Providing a fair and diverse workplace across productive partnerships with trade unions on collective our business and beyond bargaining and other issues.
Our success is driven by each of the 70,000 people we employ SABMiller is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and has an worldwide.
We believe that better business decisions and established approach to managing human rights risks, taking stronger business performance are driven by groups of account of the UNs Universal Declaration of Human Rights competent, high-calibre individuals operating in a diverse and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
This environment with the right skills, experience and motivation.
approach helps our local businesses to identify and mitigate We seek to treat all our employees and contractors equitably any significant risks within their operations and value chains.
and with respect, while providing them with a safe working We are members of SEDEX, the Supplier Ethical Data environment.
We reward them fairly by delivering a range of Exchange, and AIM-PROGRESS, a forum of leading FMCG benefits, together with opportunities to reach their potential companies that promotes responsible sourcing practices and and enjoy long, fulfilling careers with us.
Our policies and sustainable supply chains.
A total of 655 suppliers are now processes ensure we recruit and treat people on merit, registered with SEDEX, a 36% year-on-year increase.
During regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, religion, the year we led the AIM-PROGRESS Mutual Recognition disability or ethnic origin.
work stream, which seeks to reduce duplication in Our industry is traditionally perceived to be male-dominated, supplierassessments.
and we are working towards better representation for women.
We continue to support South Africas Broad-Based Black 1 On 31 March 2014 19.7% of our workforce was female 2013: Economic Empowerment BBBEE initiatives aimed at growing 2 18.8% and 28.4% of our executives and managers were the economy by including and empowering previously 3 women 2013: 28.1%.
Two of the 12 members of the groups disadvantaged citizens.
More than three-quarters of SAB Pty 4 executive committee are female, 20% of SABMiller plcs board Ltds workforce is drawn from previously disadvantaged 5 are women, which is at the FTSE 100 average of 20.4%, groups and 77% of its employees are black.
SAB achieved and three of our seven independent non-executive directors 75.25 2013: 73.11 in the annual BBBEE verification, making arefemale.
it a Level 3 contributor to BBBEE.
We regularly solicit employees views and ideas via Promoting employee safety, health and wellbeing engagement surveys.
We respect the right to union Our first priority is to ensure the safety of our employees, representation and 40.9% of employees are union members contractors and visitors to our premises.
Many of our businesses have developed our health and safety practices: during 2014 we launched a 1 12,414 women and 50,576 men.
3 As at 31 March 2014 60 women and 438 men were directors of subsidiary companies included within the consolidated financial statements.
5 Source: Professional Boards Forum BoardWatch.
Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 45 new system of governance for group-wide health and safety, Through our global learning curricula, we offer more than 200 with 10 global minimum standards for managing risk areas courses.
These use a variety of techniques, from e-learning such as road transport, security, occupational health, and to programmes facilitated by leading educational institutions.
health and safety management processes.
In the year ended 31 March 2014 we provided an average 3.9 training days per employee 2013: 3.7.
This will standardise reporting, help us with sharing best practice and allow targeted improvements.
It draws on the During the year we launched new functional academies to best practice developed by our regional health and safety help employees develop the specialist skills they need to do specialists, in particular those in Australia and South Africa.
Our Key Account Management Academy is a good example of this approach.
It has enabled regions to develop It is with regret that we report 15 employee and contractor their account managers across a range of key topics, from fatalities during the year.
Five of these were the result of winning with customers to effective negotiation skills accidents involving maintenance or repairs, seven resulted from dependent on individual need and market maturity.
motor vehicle accidents, and three resulted from robberies or assaults inflicted on our staff while on sales or trade visits.
In We have also introduced a new framework that focuses on each case we have undertaken an investigation and, where developing leaders across the leadership pipeline and across applicable, implemented measures to minimise the likelihood regions, seeking to ensure that the talent we need to provide of such an incident recurring.
During the year we recorded tomorrows leaders is identified early and properly nurtured.
12,395 days lost through injury a 21% decrease on 2013 We have identified the roles most critical to delivering our and 1,642 industrial injuries 2013: 1,788. business strategy, and have a global succession pool monitored by the groups executive committee in place for We aim to create a healthy and positive work environment for these roles, with candidates from all regions.
In the past year all our employees, acknowledging the benefits this provides in we have made 41 key appointments from this pool to fill senior terms of productivity.
We have now implemented our Wellness posts group-wide.
More broadly, 67% of senior appointments Development Programme in Africa, which focuses on HIV Aids, have been made internally.
malaria, sexually transmitted infections, hepatitis B and C, and tuberculosis: it trains employees to become peer educators both internally and within their communities, promoting prevention, testing and treatment.
Where HIV Aids has high prevalence defined as affecting more than 5% of the population, our peer educators one for every 12 employees work to reduce the stigma attached to the disease, leading to greater appetite for voluntary counselling and testing among employees and their dependents.
In countries where prevalence is above 1%, we provide access to voluntary counselling and testing as well as managed healthcare programmes for employees and immediate dependents as required.
Specific country-level public health and wellbeing initiatives have included SAB Pty Ltd distributing free condoms to local taverns across South Africa.
Over three years the company has distributed 16 million condoms to almost 12,000 taverns, 6 averting more than 32,000 new HIV infections.
Delivering business success through high performance Promoting gender We recognise and reward strong performance.
Each year, all employees set themselves stretching individual objectives in conjunction with their managers.
These goals are linked to diversity local company objectives, ensuring that each individual has clear accountability for delivering against the business strategy.
The beer industry is traditionally perceived to be male-dominated.
We remain keen to tackle this Bonus payments and salary increases are linked to performance against these individual goals.
They are perception and to promote gender diversity at all levels of our business.
calculated against a combination of both individual achievement and overall company performance.
Gender diversity varies from region to region: South Africa has the highest representation of women in Attracting and retaining talent We aim to offer appropriate and continuous career leadership roles.
During the year we took an in-depth look at the factors that contribute to varying gender development opportunities to all our employees.
Each individual is encouraged to take ownership of, and manage, diversity levels, region by region.
Our aim is to understand the underlying causes, recognising their own development, supported by their manager.
that these may differ across our regions, so we During the year, we focused on embedding our new career can then identify solutions.
framework, introduced in 2013, across a selection of functions.
The framework identifies the skills, experience and competencies In support of this regional work, in Australia, Europe, India and the USA we have signed up as a global required for each role, allowing close alignment between employees needs and business needs.
supporter of Catalyst, a non-profit organisation that seeks to expand opportunities for women 6 Assumes that for every 500 condoms distributed one new HIV infection is averted, John Stower, 2004, published by the South African National Department of Health.
