Transparency and ethics Respecting human rights Contributing to the reduction of HIV Aids benefiting communities Encouraging enterprise development in our value chains Working towards zero-waste operations Packaging, reuse and recycling Reducing our energy and carbon footprint Making more beer using less water Discouraging irresponsible drinking 40 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development Improving livelihoods Since 2007 our 10 sustainable development SD priorities have driven responsible and sustainable growth and grown capability across our business, helping each of our operations to address local sustainable development challenges.
From this position of strength, we have evolved our SD Accelerating growth and social development framework.
The substance of our 10 sustainable development We produce high quality beers and soft drinks which are priorities remains, and is integrated into the day-to-day enjoyed by millions of people.
Our businesses throughout management and reporting of our business, underpinned by the world provide direct and indirect employment, pay taxes, demanding core standards on issues such as human rights.
and help to sustain and develop local economies.
During In the future we will focus on five shared imperatives that will the year we generated US$24,254 million of economic 1 enable our businesses to benefit as local communities value through our business activities, most of which was prosper.
Through the shared imperatives we aim to tackle the distributed to employees, shareholders, governments five most material challenges for our business at both a local and local communities.
and international level, which requires collaborative action The multiplier effect employment created through our across our value chains and communities.
Next year we investments and operations can be a powerful force for local will report against these five shared imperatives: In Africa and South Africa we employ more than development.
24,000 people and support more than a million jobs across accelerate growth and social development in our 2 our value chain valuechains:.
In Europe, for every person we employ, a make beer the natural choice for the moderate and further 17 jobs are supported, mainly in the hospitality industry, responsible drinker: an important employer of first time labour market entrants.
secure shared water resources for our business and We work with thousands of micro, small and medium localcommunities: enterprises many of them run by women within our value create value through reducing waste and carbon emissions: chains and local communities.
We have significant experience and of supporting these businesses and entrepreneurs, from the support responsible, sustainable use of land for brewing crops.
farmers who grow our brewing crops to the retailers who Our Sustainability Assessment Matrix SAM assesses country-level In the year ended 31 March 2014 the average score achieved performance against each of our 10 SD priorities to five levels from a by SABMiller across all priorities was 3.5 the seventh year of minimum standard level one to leading edge level five.
Our minimum continual improvement and a 51% improvement since the first standards, which were a stretch for several of our businesses in 2007, group average SAM score of 1.7.
Group average scores increased are now well-established across the group.
This is the last year we across all 10 sustainable development priorities, with significant will report against the 10 priorities: from 2015 we will report against improvements made in enterprise development and transparency the new five shared imperatives, with existing KPIs captured under and ethics.
Stairway level assessment criteria Group average level assessment scores Leading edge: performance that represents genuine global leadership on an issue.
5 Best practice: achieving what is currently considered to be global best practice in a 4 2014 average particular eld.
2013 average 2012 average Developing leadership: applying a comprehensive approach including innovative 3 tools and widespread engagement.
Progressing: ensuring consistent performance is achieved in a particular eld.
2 2007 average Minimum standard: all operations must achieve level one, or have a plan in place to do so, as it 1 represents management of our key sustainable development risks.
Discover more about SAM online 2014 2013 at sabmiller.
com sam 2012 2007 Strategic report 41 TV sponsorship broadens the reach of You Decide in South Africa Launched in 2012, the You Decide campaign sell our beers read about how we support tenderos in Latin encourages South African teenagers to turn away America on page 16.
To make better use of this knowledge, from underage drinking, using powerful and inspiring we are gathering best practice experience from all our multimedia messages, including hard-hitting drama, businesses so we can build world-class business support, to highlight the consequences of alcohol misuse.
During the year You Decide built a national profile by We also look to invest beyond our value chains.
In South sponsoring Future Leaders, a new reality television Africa, the SAB Foundation Social Innovation Awards, now in series following five ordinary teenagers who had their third year, awarded 40 innovators a total of ZAR10.3 million previously experimented with alcohol.
US$1.0 million for sustainable solutions to the challenges You Decide has reached almost 500,000 students in facing those on low incomes, or who belong to disadvantaged 877 schools and gathered just under 22,000 Facebook groups or communities.
Our KickStart youth entrepreneurship likes.
The programme is run in co-ordination with the programme supports sustainable enterprises owned by black Department of Trade and Industry and the National and young people: since 1995 KickStart South Africa has Youth Development Agency.
supported 3,200 new businesses that have employed 21,000 people.
We have now extended KickStart to Lesotho.
Follow You Decide on Facebook at A fair approach to taxation www.
com YouDecideZA The tax paid by multinational companies is of interest to many stakeholders.
In 2013 we published our first report on the role of tax in economic development, Our Approach to Tax 2013, offering a new level of disclosure on our tax principles.
Our Together with 12 other leading beer, wines and spirits second report is published alongside this report.
companies, we are signatories to a five-year global action plan to help reduce the harmful use of alcohol.
This includes 10 The total taxes borne and collected by SABMiller plc and commitments, supported by 18 key performance indicators.
its subsidiaries and our share of taxes paid by our US joint During the year we reported our progress in several areas.
venture during the year amounted to US$10,750 million For example, we engaged more than 17,000 stakeholders 2013: US$9,900 million.
These include: excise, corporate including retailers, parents, teachers and police officers across and transactional taxes and taxes borne by employees.
Of 24 countries to seek enforcement of government regulations this total, 67% was paid in developing countries.
The corporate on underage drinking.
In the field of marketing self-regulation, tax charge for the year was US$1,173 million 2013: US$1,192 56% of our marketing contracts now include a requirement to million restated, an effective tax rate of 26.0% 2013: 27.0%.
comply with our global policy on commercial communication.
Making beer the natural choice for the moderate and responsible drinker Read more about our performance against these commitments, and that of our fellow signatories, at www.
com alcohol The majority of our consumers enjoy our beers in moderation.
However, a minority drink alcohol irresponsibly, increasing Securing shared water resources for the future the risks of doing damage to themselves and the people Water is fundamental not only to SABMillers value chain but around them.
Combating the harmful use of alcohol is a core also to the health and success of the markets and communities priority for us: we run more than 110 alcohol responsibility in which we operate and sell our products.
The accessible programmes worldwide, tackling issues such as drinking while supply of freshwater is finite, however, and in many countries pregnant, drink-driving and underage drinking.
We tailor each both water quantity and quality is in decline as populations programme to local needs, working alongside local partners surge and demand grows from agriculture, energy generation, including governments, NGOs, civil society groups, and public industry and households.
The Water Resources Group WRG bodies such as the police.
estimates the shortfall between supply and global demand Our comprehensive policies publicly available help our could reach 40% by 2030. employees and partners to meet our demanding standards Many of our breweries are in areas of water risk.
To help us on producing and marketing our products to encourage better understand the nature and extent of local risk during the responsible consumption.
For example, we will not employ year we launched a bespoke water risk assessment process, models under the age of 25 in any commercial communication, which builds on earlier iterations but allows us to investigate and we continue to prohibit the addition of stimulants, such as risks more deeply, building a detailed, watershed-level, caffeine, to any alcoholic beverages, and products that mix site-by-site picture of our water exposure.
The process is now beer and spirits.
complete in 29 facilities across 14 countries, including all of our We have internal mechanisms to ensure compliance with Latin American operations.
This data enables our facilities to both our own standards and local regulations, supported by identify and prioritise risks, and develop mitigation plans.
All our companies have Water risks rarely impact one company in isolation, so a sales and marketing compliance committee SMCC, which collaborating on mitigating shared water risks is essential.
ensures that marketing materials comply with our policy on Since 2009 our Water Futures Partnership with WWF commercial communication, local laws and self-regulatory and the German development agency GIZ has addressed requirements.
The SMCC has the power to reject outright, shared water risks across 12 projects in nine countries.
or demand modifications to, any materials that fail to comply.
1 For more information on the economic value generated by SABMiller, see Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014, page 7.
2 Source: Our economic impact in Africa animation and Working in South Africa: the contribution of SAB to the South African Economy, both available at www.
42 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development continued We are also a founding partner of the WRG, which co-ordinates collaboration on, and prioritisation of, key water issues between private sector and government stakeholders.
Through the WRG, we are a lead contributor to the Strategic Water Partners Network in South Africa, which is tackling three key focus areas: effluent and waste water treatment: industrial water efficiency and municipal leakage reduction: and agriculture and supply chain water efficiency.
Building on the success of this partnership, we have become the founding partner of a WRG partnership in Tanzania and, more recently, a new partnership in Maharashtra, India.
In 2008 we set our breweries a target of 25% water use reduction by 2015.
In the year ended 31 March 2014 a 4 water-efficiency ratio of 3.5hl hl 2013: 3.7 hl hl means we hit this target a year early, a credit to the efforts of our breweries to drive improvements throughout our manufacturing Protecting vital processes.
In absolute terms, during the year we used 4 621million hl of water to produce our beer 2013: 667 million hl.
water resources Creating value through reducing waste and carbonemissions in India Reusing, recycling and eliminating waste are fundamental to sustainable growth.
We work hard to eliminate waste from India is a water-scarce country: freshwater availability all stages of brewing: during the year our breweries reused per capita decreased by 15% between 2001 and or recycled 95.6% of their general waste 2013: 94.4%.
2011, under pressure from agriculture and a large Approximately 99% of spent grains from brewing are sold and growing population.
We are working to safeguard and reused as nutrient-rich inputs to the agricultural sector water sources for our breweries and the communities or to make animal feed.
that share them: detailed assessments reveal the Around half our beer is packaged in returnable bottles and specific water-risk factors at each location, and we kegs, which have a lower carbon and waste impact than work with local stakeholders and external partners single-use packs.
We work with suppliers to reduce the to tailor a mitigation plan.
weight and environmental impact of all packaging.
In Australia, In Neemrana, Rajasthan, we partnered with the we introduced lighter bottles for several beer brands, while in Confederation of Indian Industry to build water Europe a research-led programme is encouraging consumers harvesting and replenishment structures aimed at to use returnable bottles.
Identifying In the year ended 31 March 2014 fossil fuel emissions per hl that 87% of groundwater use was by farmers, we of lager produced fell by 7%, with total carbon emissions of provided smart irrigation training to a group of 4 1.8 million tonnes 2013: 2.0 million tonnes, of which 1.0 million farmers who served as demonstrators to others, tonnes were generated from our direct use of fuels such as and organised training camps for farmers.
Over natural gas, coal and oil scope one and 0.8 million tonnes the past three years participating farmers have, were generated indirectly from the production of electricity on average, increased productivity by 17-34%, we purchase scope two.
increased disposable incomes by 18%, and reduced their water use by 13%.
These efforts are driven at a brewery level, where water and energy efficiency is a key element of our technical excellence and sustainability agendas.
Breweries have stretching targets, benchmarked globally each month, with water and energy performance now part of the measurement criteria for employees responsible for each stage of the brewing process.
4 Water to lager ratio Total CO2e emissions from fossil 4 hl water hl lager fuel energy used on site -5% -7% kgCO2e hl Water to lager Fossil fuel 4.6 4.5 4.3 ratio down by emissions from 4.2 14.9 4.0 14.3 14.2 13.8 3.7 5% to 3.5 hl hl, energy use at 3.5 12.4 hitting our 25% 11.1 our breweries 10.3 reduction target down 7% to a year early.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 43 Supporting responsible, sustainable use The CARAC chair is Dr Dambisa Moyo, a non-executive of land for brewing crops director of SABMiller plc see pages 46 and 47 for a full list of Food security is of paramount importance to everyone in the members.
Each region has its own CARAC, chaired by the agricultural supply chain.
Today around a billion people go to regional managing director, which reviews SD performance bed hungry, a situation that will only become more acute given and discusses emerging issues twice-yearly.
The group 3 the projected need for 70% more food production by 2050.
CARAC is regularly updated on each regions progress.
Across the African continent, 65% of the population depend Transparency and ethics on smallholder agriculture.
Our aim is to provide new markets SABMiller is committed to working against bribery and for their crops, giving them incentives to increase production, corruption in all its forms.
Our Code of Business Conduct and and therefore support both increased income and food Ethics requires compliance with all applicable laws, including security.
We have developed under-commercialised crops, anti-corruption laws, and we have a zero-tolerance approach such as cassava and sorghum, creating secure, sustainable to corruption.
Our Code and Anti-Bribery Policy both apply supply chains that improve the livelihoods of smallholders group-wide to all the entities we control and to all employees and drive economic growth.
and officers: together with our Supplier Anti-Bribery Policy, they also set out our expectations of other persons who act Naturally, we place major focus on malting barley, our key on our behalf.
We source both from long-established barleygrowing regions, and from newer growing areas in which we SABMiller has implemented a comprehensive anti-corruption have supported the introduction of malting barley as a new programme to underpin our Anti-Bribery Policy.
This includes source of income.
Wherever we source from, we aim to training and communication, vetting and communicating our support productivity, resource efficiency, and the profitability ethical standards to suppliers on a risk-based approach, and of malting barley so that it plays a core role in farmers crop approval procedures in areas such as gifts and entertainment, rotations and in local economies.
We also take steps to promote our independently managed, anonymous whistleblowing We provide practical support to farmers through hotlines.
Our anti-corruption programme is reviewed by the various initiatives: audit committee.
in South Africa, our Better Barley, Better Beer programme, In addition to our businesses continuing to administer the run in association with WWF, provides a resilient, sustainable anti-corruption programme in their day-to-day activities, framework for farmers to use: one of our projects during the year has been to enhance the in Uganda, Nile Breweries launched a broad-based Local programmes transparency.
We recognise the importance of Enterprise Agriculture Programme LEAP in 2002.
Today explaining to stakeholders how our values are being translated 15 farmers associations have been formed, 10 of which into action, and we will launch a new webpage in 2014 grow, process and deliver direct to the brewery.
During the providing more information about our approach to antiyear gross direct income to sorghum farmers amounted to corruption compliance.
The brewery buys from and supports some 20,000 sorghum farmers: and Another important project has been to review the business in Honduras, our sugarcane farm and mill Azunosa works integrity module of our supplier accreditation programme.
with the government and Honduran financial institutions to Managed by SABMiller Procurement, this assesses prospective provide small farmer co-operatives with financial, technical suppliers from an ethics and business governance perspective.
and administrative assistance plus forward contracts for As part of the integration of our global procurement processes, the purchase of sugarcane at a fair price.
Azunosa aims to the accreditation programme will be rolled out to cover a achieve Bonsucro certification in the coming year, which we broader range of suppliers.
We have been reviewing the hope will be the first in Central America with this accreditation.
programme to take account of practical experience since its Bonsucro is a global, multi-stakeholder, non-profit organisation implementation, and to ensure it is effective and scaleable.
dedicated to reducing the environmental and social impacts This work has included refining our risk assessment of sugarcane production, while also recognising the need categorisation, our business governance questionnaire, for economic viability.
Building sustainable development into our We place a high value on reporting to and communicating operations and business planning with all our stakeholders in an open way, and recognise the The Sustainable Development Way is at the heart of our importance of explaining how our values are being translated approach to SD, providing a consistent framework for into action.
We produced our first group sustainable managing SD and focusing all of our operations efforts and development report in 1998.
19 of our businesses regularly resource priorities.
The SD Way is supported by policies and produce their own local SD reports and many others provide position papers, as well as guidelines, training and tools for information online.
We also contributed to several independent building capability and sharing best practice globally.
Individual reports, including the Harvard Kennedy School report operations are accountable for improving their own SD Sustaining and Scaling the Impact of Enterprise Development performance, which often forms part of our senior managers Programmes, which draws on our experience of strengthening performance objectives and remuneration.
the business ecosystem to promote entrepreneurship.
SD performance is overseen by the group corporate Download local SD reports and independent reports at accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC, www.
com reports a sub-committee of the SABMiller plc board.
3 Source: FAO, How to feed the world 2050: Global agriculture towards 2050, 2009.
4 Information for the year ended 31 March 2014 has been subject to limited assurance by .
For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on page 21 of the Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014.
