Financial and operating review continued Regional performance Europe Spain new pricing strategies and up-selling drive return to growth Organic revenue growth 2014 2013 Revenue in Spain grew 1% organically after several consecutive reporting France 3% 0% periods of contraction.
The recovery was led by a return to SSRS growth, UKI 5% 5% which contracted by 7% last year alongside modest contraction in Spain 1% -2% recurring revenue.
Sage Murano and Sage Despachos upgrade initiatives Germany 3% 1% were the primary drivers of this improvement in the SMB and Accountants Sage Pay 7% 25% segments respectively.
Rest of Europe 3% 8% Spains return to growth is the result of positive and successful Europe 4% 2% management action in an economic environment that is still uncertain despite some signs of improvement.
We are now seeing better growth Revenue in Europe grew organically by 4%, with organic recurring rates for Sage Contaplus, our flagship SSB product in Spain.
This follows revenue up 7% 2013: 5% and organic SSRS revenue contracting the introduction of new, simplified pricing tiers and software and support by 4% 2013: 2% contraction.
Software subscription revenue growth bundles, which have improved renewal rates and encouraged customers of 31% is a highlight, with product feature innovation, new tiered pricing to move to higher value plans.
strategies and legislative change acting as subscription catalysts.
75% of recurring revenue growth came through subscription across both the Germany improved recurring revenue growth supports growth SSB and SMB segments, driven by key product initiatives that included In Germany, the rate of organic growth increased to 3%.
SSRS Sage Ciel Flex, Sage 100 i7 and Sage 50 Payroll.
contraction slowed to 2% compared to the prior year contraction of 4%, whilst recurring revenue growth increased to 7% from 5% last year, SSRS contraction reflects some substitution effect resulting from reflecting focus on premium support up-selling across several SSB and subscription growth this year, which continues the longer-term shift SMB products including Sage Office Line.
to higher quality recurring revenue streams.
There was also SSRS contraction in the mid-market that mainly affected France, driven by Sage Pay growth rate slows after one-off price increase supported a weak new licence performance and a change in sales mix.
France prior year growth contributes almost 50% of total European mid-market revenue.
Sage Pay delivered organic revenue growth of 7%.
Growth of 25% in the France strong subscription momentum offsets mid-market prior year was primarily due to a price increase made in the second half weakness of 2012 that is now fully represented in the comparator.
The payments landscape in the UK is highly competitive and this has impacted the rate In France, organic revenue grew by 3%, with growth excluding the of new customer acquisition.
Progress around the cross-sell of payments mid-market of 4%.
Strong subscription momentum remained the into the accounting installed base has also been below expectation but primary driver, with over 40% of Frances recurring revenue base remains an opportunity for 2015. comprised of software subscription revenue that grew 24% in the year.
Rest of Europe Success continues to centre on the Sage 100 i7 upgrade programme, which is now available across both accounts and payroll, and the tiered Organic revenue in Portugal grew by 1% 2013: 17%, with prior year subscription-only Sage Ciel Flex offering.
Sage Ciel Flex has been growth largely due to a non-recurring legislative catalyst.
Whilst current particularly successful in offsetting a declining performance of the legacy year SSRS revenue has therefore contracted by 21% against a strong Ciel product in the retail channel.
These initiatives highlight the attraction comparator, recurring revenue has grown by 19% through focus on of subscription to both SMB and SSB customers respectively.
support contract penetration and renewals as customers look to remain legislatively compliant.
UKI value-adding subscription catalysts drives growth In Switzerland, revenue grew 3% organically 2013: 3%, whilst organic UKI revenue has grown organically by 5%.
Subscription is taking hold revenue grew 5% in Poland 2013: 7%.
in the UKI with growth of 30% in the year, with Sage 50 Payroll in the SSB segment and Sage 200 in the SMB segment behind this strong Organic operating profit performance.
Subscription revenue now represents almost 25% of total Organic operating profit in Europe increased to 215m 2013: 204m, UKI recurring revenue.
representing a margin of 28.6% 2013: 28.1%, primarily as a result of Sage One also delivered strong growth in paying subscriptions, which revenue growth improving operating leverage.
The Group continues grew from over 21,000 to 47,000.
Whilst Sage One is not yet a material to invest in Europe in support of growth, particularly across R&D, S&M constituent part of the UKI revenue base, it is an important product in and customer support, whilst reducing the overhead base that supported driving market share growth in the SSB segment.
non-core products that were disposed of last year.
These good performances were partially offset by a decline in SSRS revenue, which was boosted last year by the Real-Time Information RTI legislative change initiative.
48 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Americas AAMEA Organic revenue growth 2014 2013 Organic revenue growth 2014 2013 Sage Business Solutions SBS 5% 6% South Africa 16% 14% Sage Payment Solutions SPS 1% 4% Australia 6% 1% North America 4% 6% Middle East and Asia 12% 11% Brazil 9% n a AAMEA 12% 9% Americas 5% 6% Organic revenue grew strongly in AAMEA at 12%, with organic recurring revenue growing 14% 2013: 11% and organic SSRS revenue growing The Americas, where full year results from Brazil are recorded in 10% 2013: 7%.
South Africa again led the acceleration in growth despite organic revenue for the first time, delivered organic revenue growth a marked slowdown in the wider economy.
Organic recurring revenue grew 6% 2013: 7% and organic SSRS revenue grew 1% 2013: 2%.
The rate of growth in the Americas has South Africa strong double-digit growth performance fallen, despite the introduction of high-single digit growth in Brazil, Organic revenue growth in South Africa increased to 16%, with the rate as a result of a slowdown in the rate of premium support up-selling of organic recurring revenue growth accelerating to 19% from 16%, and and a sharp decline in the rate of growth in Sage Payment Solutions.
SSRS growth increasing to 13% from 12%.
SBS premium support underpins growth The South African mid-market has continued to perform well, with SBS grew organic revenue by 5%.
Premium support up-selling remained Sage ERP X3 and VIP People Payroll the standout products.
Payroll the principal driver of growth reflecting focus on migrating tax-only Sage subscription revenue and payments growth drove the acceleration 50 US and Canada customers to the full premium support service in the in recurring revenue growth.
The business also delivered growth in the SMB segment South African growth is also underpinned by annual price increases through Sage 100 and Sage 300 premium support initiatives.
However, that reflect the current rate of inflation of around 6%.
the overall rate of maintenance and support growth has fallen modestly as certain upgrade initiatives came to an end during the second half of The contribution of revenue from the wider African continent continues the year.
to increase in importance, comprising 13% of total South African revenue and growing 22% organically 2013: 22%.
SSRS revenue in the mid-market grew at double-digits as Sage ERP X3 continues to perform strongly in North America.
This offset some SSRS Australia, Middle East and Asia revenue contraction in the SMB segment across the sunset portfolio as In Australia, we delivered organic revenue growth of 6%, with price customers migrate to other products that better serve their needs.
increases on key products Micropay and Handisoft responsible for SPS pricing and competitive pressures reduce rate of growth the majority of this growth.
SPS grew organic revenue by 1%, down from 4% last year, reflecting The Middle East and Asia grew organically by 12%, with good growth a particularly challenging second half of the year.
As highlighted with our in the Middle East and Singapore driving performance.
third quarter trading update, the slowdown reflects market-wide pricing pressure driving margin compression through the merchant acquirer Organic operating profit channel and the loss of a signification merchant acquirer partner in the AAMEA organic operating profit has increased to 39m 2013: 35m, first half of 2014. although this represents a decrease in margin to 27.2% 2013: 27.4%.
During the year, there was increased investment in headcount across A number of steps have been taken to stabilise margin compression customer support, professional services and mid-market payroll.
There but the merchant acquirer loss will have a negative impact on revenue was also additional investment into the rest of Africa with the opening in the first half of 2015.
We remain cautious about the growth prospects of a new office in Lagos.
Profitability in AAMEA was largely unaffected of payments going into 2015 and are focused on driving the cross-sell by the non-core product disposals.
of integrated payment solutions into the Sage installed base.
Brazil accounting and payroll software delivers double-digit growth despite economic slowdown Organic revenue in Brazil grew by 9%.
Accounting and payroll software revenue has grown in excess of 20% during the year, benefiting from some legislative change.
Technical content revenue growth was low as the subdued demand for this service continues, with businesses looking to reduce costs in the face of toughening macroeconomic trading conditions.
We are taking steps to respond to this issue that include bundling some technical content into the core accounting subscription.
Organic operating profit Organic operating profit in Americas increased to 106m 2013: 98m, representing a margin of 25.7% 2013: 25.0%.
The increase in margin is the result of improved operating leverage and controlled expenditure, particularly around headcount costs.
There has also been a strong focus on reallocation of R&D investment towards Invest products and on reducing non-core product-related overheads.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 49 Corporate responsibility Our Corporate responsibilitypolicy Our Corporate responsibility CR activities offer Sage the opportunity to be a good corporate citizen while supporting our global vision.
Our global CR policy focuses on four key areas where we Board reporting believe we can make the most difference.
For three of these Our CR policy has been endorsed by our Board who People, Environment and Industry we have established are updated on CR risks and opportunities by the a global framework for our operating companies to work Company Secretary.
within, allowing them flexibility over which area to invest in according to what will have the most meaning and impact Ethics locally.
Whilst local legal standards apply as an absolute We are committed to conducting business in an honest minimum, we aim to achieve good practice in our local and ethical manner.
We act according to our Code of Ethics, markets and share this across the Group.
The fourth area which is integral to us and sets out a range of principles Community is entirely locally driven, allowing our people we adhere to.
In particular, we do not tolerate bribery and to support causes close to them and to become involved corruption and are committed to acting professionally, in their communities.
fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships.
We enforce effective systems and processes Sage has been independently assessed against the to counter bribery and corruption and we continue to FTSE4Good criteria and satisfied the requirements to create new ways for employees to anonymously report become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, any related concerns.
which is an equity index designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate As a UK company, The Sage Group plc is bound by the responsibility standards.
laws of the UK, including the Bribery Act 2010, in respect of our conduct both at home and abroad.
In addition, we will People uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption Given the nature of our business we have not included in all the jurisdictions in which we operate.
information specifically about human rights issues in this report.
We have a Code of Ethics, available at As well as ensuring our own conduct is appropriate, we www.
com, which recognises the importance of have also put in place procedures to prevent bribery being treating all of our employees fairly, covering issues such as committed on our behalf by any associated persons, responsible employment, diversity and equal opportunities.
particularly in our subsidiaries, and third parties we work This is an effective way of communicating, at a high level, with.
Our leaders sign a declaration relating to the Code of the principles which should be applied in the conduct Ethics to make sure any additional business commitments of our business.
or client and supplier relationships they may have are clear and transparent.
Environment We continue to analyse our impact on our environment.
Data protection We remain committed to reducing our energy consumption We take data security and privacy seriously.
Customer and related emissions where possible, as well as reducing data is handled sensitively, with respect, and in a way the wider impact we have through the use of resources that complies, as a minimum, with the requirements of and how much landfill waste we generate.
data protection laws in the countries in which we operate Industry and, where appropriate, regional legislation.
We also We aim to leverage the unique relationships that we work with local legislative bodies and data protection have with our customers across the globe to continue to agencies and continuously look to strengthen our systems understand and support the issues and challenges that and procedures.
Community Our local communities are important to us.
We support a number of charities and community organisations worldwide in order to make a positive impact on the communities where we have a presence.
Our employees are dedicated to raising funds for charity and volunteering their time to help thelocal community.
50 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements People Our vision is to be recognised as the most valuable supporter of small and medium sized companies by creating greater freedom for them to succeed.
Our people pride themselves on delivering an extraordinary customer experience to underpin this vision.
They are also proud to work at Sage and, in turn, we are committed to leveraging, developing and recognising talent across our organisation.
Guiding principles Our guiding principles drive our culture and shape how we think, plan, behave and make decisions.
Simplicity Maintaining simplicity in a complex world is challenging, but we believe it is vital to work in an organisation where things are clear, easy to understand and direct.
We believe it creates an environment that is more relaxed and that frees people to perform to their potential.
Agility Business is fast-paced and ever changing, so when customers need us we have to respond quickly and efficiently.
However, being reactive isnt enough.
We believe in a more proactive approach, which requires us to anticipate and interpret our customers needs so that were ready to meet them.
Having the agility to find relevant, effective solutions and deliver them at the right time is what sets us apart.
Innovation Were always looking at new ways to improve the customer experience.
From product innovation to how we work together, creativity can make all the difference.
Thats why we encourage our teams to explore innovative ideas, because our future success depends on it.
Trust By using Sage products our customers are committing to us, so they must be able to trust us to deliver.
Our customers need to know we are on their side, providing tailored products and services that meet their needs and offering expert advice and support to help them run their businesses.
Integrity Whether we are providing software products to our customers or giving them business advice and support, integrity is central to maintaining our credibility.
It is about delivering on our promises, being reliable and maintaining the highest of standards.
That is how we build trust and loyalty with our customers.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 51 Corporate responsibility continued People continued In Spain, the Sage Sales University provides a platform Building inner confidence to ensure employees are clear on business priorities and We are committed to making Sage an inspiring and targets.
It also provides a networking opportunity so that engaging place to work.
Our brand is all about creating colleagues can learn from one anothers experiences.
"business confidence for our customers so it is important that our people all have the ""inner confidence"" needed to In North America, employees within R&D benefitfrom ensure that we deliver this to our customers."
expanded learning tools, includingan online learning platform that provides real time, online access to enhance technical Our people thereforerequirethe right training, the right skills and applications.
tools to do the job, feel supported by their managers and understand how their work fits with what we are trying Weve also implemented a number of programmes to to achieve as a business.
We try hard to create this improve our capabilities in support of our customers, environment but there is always more we can do.
including investing in technical skills and cross-training of our support teams to extend coverage beyond a single In February 2014, we launched our first global People product.
For example, in North America, nearly half of Survey.
82% of our people around10,600 employees our analysts are able to serve customers across multiple responded, so we are confident that the results give a clear products, enhancing their engagement, talents and value.
and true reflection ofhow our people feel about working at Sage.
The results have provided us with a real insight into Transforming the way we work what is working well for our people as well as some key Our global strategy requires us to transform the way that we areas for us to focus on.
Work is well underway across work.
As cloud technology evolves to make data accessible our business to develop action plans and a further interim anywhere and on any device, Sage is respondingby survey will take place in early 2015 to track our progress.
providing customers with flexibility and choice to take advantage of these technologies.
"Redefining the Sage Employee Value Proposition As part of our ongoing commitment to making Sage a This has resulted in more people working across traditional great place to work we have initiated a global project to boundaries with a greater need to share and access redefine the Sage Global Employer Brand and Employee common data, as we see increasing levels of global Value Proposition ""EVP""."
We have engaged our people collaboration to deliver our strategic initiatives.
through focus groups and workshops to understand We are investing in technology to support these new ways what is important to them so that we can define our core of working, particularly byleveraging common platforms proposition.
We will be establishing a clear framework andenabling our people to take advantage of the cloud.
to enable us to bring our EVP to life consistently across the business and at all points of the employee experience At a regional and country level we are also streamlining our life cycle.
systems and processes to ensure we achieve our goals.
We are aligning our finance functions across North Americaand Equipping our people for change Europeto best meet the needs of the business and were Ensuring our people are equipped with the relevant skills and exploring ways in which we can leverage our scaleusing training is a key focus.
In many regions weve invested heavily common ERP systems.
in bespoke learning and development to ensure our people continue to deliver an extraordinary customer experience.
Sage People Survey We are confident that our results give 10,600 77% 73% a clear and true reflection of how our 82% employees of respondents are of our people responded to the survey proud to work at Sage understand our people feel about business strategy working at Sage.
52 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In North America we have implemented a new Human Recognising our people Capital Management System to provide a consistent system Sage strives to provide a work environment where our of record across the region whilst linking seamlessly with people feel valued and appreciated in order to help attract, other HR and Finance tools.
In support of this work and the motivate and retain the talent required to achieve our goals.
increasing collaboration and efficiency it represents, we now We continue to recognise and celebrate successand this have a Chief Information Officer responsible for both North year we launched the Sage Europe awards to recognise America and Europe.
thecontribution and outstanding performance of over 7,000 A further example of integration and sharing best practice employees in thatregion in bringing our strategy to life.
The is the launch of the first phase of a cloud-based global awards build on existing country-based programmes, such performance management system, which builds on work as the Sage Guiding Principle Awards, which are well initiated in North America, for the benefit of teams across established within our Sage UKI organisation.
In South Africa, we recogniseemployees contribution We are also looking at ways in which Office 365 can to success through a range of monthly, quarterly and enable our people to connect globally, access news and annual awards.
"Employees are invited to an annual information, share insights and provide feedback to help ""Oscars"" weekend as thanks for their hard work and facilitate the delivery of our vision and strategy."
dedication, where awards are presented to recognise outstanding performance.
As well as supporting us in achieving our business ambitions, these projects and initiatives generate improvements for our In North America, in addition to existing programmes global Sage community and provide further professional such as the Extraordinary Customer Experience awards, growth and career development opportunities.
several targeted programmes were implemented this year to acknowledge employees time, talents and effort.
The Customer Experience Honors programme recognises and rewards customer-facing support and service team members for the value they deliver as part of our Sage Advisory Level Services.
Developing our talent To meet the needs of our global strategy we have taken a well-planned to experience a new culture, bring their skills and experience to approach to the development of our talent.
a new group of colleaguesand projects, and acceleratetheir own development.
"Across our leadership population we have continued to implement our global talent management process""Talking Talent""to assess Examples of where global talent has been deployed include capabilities, identify talent strengths, risks and opportunities as well leveraging expertise between regions through the deployment of as targeted succession planning for key roles."
We continue to invest senior executives and other key talent to assist with strategic projects.
in leadership evaluation and have increased our investment in We encourage the sharing of knowledge, experienceandsuccess performance management.
as a way of improving our approach to new products, initiatives and projects.
Our approach has identified internal successors for key senior roles in the organisation, including the recent appointment of our Chief Marketing Officer, Santiago Solanas, and our Mid-market Europe Chief Executive, Jayne Archbold.
We have extended our programme beyond the Top 100 leaders to nearly 200 leaders in Europe and we are taking this further into the business and across all regions to gain a better understanding of key talent.
In North America, this process has been widened to include key roles within R&D, Sales Operations and Product Management that align closely to strategic performance.
In addition, we have rolled out several leadership development programmes at a global and regional level including Confident Leader, Leading Change, Creating a High Impact Performance Environment and Leading and Working in a Matrix Environment.
Global mobility is playing an increasing role in transferring skills and knowledge across Sage and our approach enables us to close skills gaps, address talent shortages and fuel business growth around the world.
At the same time, the employee benefits from the opportunity Santiago Solanas, Group Chief Marketing Officer The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 53 Corporate responsibility continued People continued We will regularly assess and refocus our effectiveness Diversity in reflecting the diversity of our customers, and strive Sage customers come from many nationalities and to improve all the time.
backgrounds and our commitment is that Sage people will reflect their diversity.
Gender We will demonstrate our commitment by: We continue to value the aims and objectives of The Davies Report on Women on Boards.
In considering appointments Promoting equal opportunity for our current and to the Board and to senior executive positions, it is our policy potential team members to evaluate the skills, experience and knowledge required by Reflecting the communities in which we work a particular role with due regard for the benefit of diversity on Aiming to build teams which reflect the diversity the Board and at senior management level and make an of our customers appointment accordingly.
Treating our customers, partners and team members Following the appointment of Inna Kuznetsova as a fairly and with respect Non-executive Director in March 2014 we have 25% female Promoting an environment free from discrimination, representation at Board level.
Our top leadership population bullying and harassment, and tackling any behaviour is 22% female, and this proportion is higher within the which may breach this intent majority of our core operating companies.
46% of our total workforce profile is female.
Examples of some local Providing support and encouragement to our people gender-specific initiatives include Spains Equality Plan and to develop their careers and increase their contribution the UKIs Enterprise for Women network aimed at supporting to Sage and our customers and encouraging career development of women through We will provide equal opportunity to all our people and will networking events and workshops.
not tolerate discrimination on grounds of gender, gender identity, marital status, sexual orientation, race, colour, nationality, religion, age, disability or any other grounds other than performance.
1 Year-end employee count split by region Group and central Europe Americas AAMEA operations Total 2 2013 7,063 3,546 2,006 145 12,760 2014 7,114 3,585 2,134 142 12,975 1 Figures shown are on an organic basis.
2 Last year, employees and associated costs attributable to Sage ERP X3 were disclosed as part of Group and central operations.
This year they are included as part of Europe.
2013 gures have been restated on a like-for-like basis.
Board diversity Top leadership diversity Total workforce diversity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Men 6 6 Men 127 114 Men 7,017 6,830 Women 2 1 Women 36 33 Women 5,958 5,930 % Men 75% 86% % Men 78% 78% % Men 54% 54% % Women 25% 14% % Women 22% 22% % Women 46% 46% Prior year top leadership diversity gures have been restated on a like-for-like basis with the current yearto include all employees who are registered directors of one or more Group companies.
The previously reported numbers of 84 men and 27 women captured employees who ful l a leadership role in delivering global strategy.
However, not all employees who are registered directors of one or more Group companies fall into this category.
54 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Environment We aim to reduce the energy our business uses and make the most of recycling opportunities.
We comply with local laws as a minimum standard and Sage continues to take part in the global Carbon Disclosure Project.
Greenhouse gas emissions Organisation boundary and responsibility This section includes our mandatory reporting of We report our emissions data using an operational control greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Companies approach to define our organisational boundary which meets Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report the definitional requirements of the Regulations in respect of Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
We include this those emissions for which we are responsible.
reporting data here in order to provide a complete We have reported on all material emission sources for CR picture.
which we deem ourselves to be responsible.
These sources align with our operational control and financial control Reporting year boundaries.
We do not have responsibility for any emission We have defined our greenhouse gas emissions reporting sources that are beyond the boundary of our operational year so that it aligns with our financial year, being 1 October control.
For example, business travel other than by car 2013 to 30 September 2014. including, for example, commercial flights is not within our operational control and, therefore, is not considered Global greenhouse gas emissions data to be our responsibility.
For period 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014 Tonnes of CO 2 Methodology Emissions from: Equivalent CO e 2 FY14 FY13 The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including Combustion of fuel and mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance operation of facilities 9,238 9,550 June 2013 issued by the Department for Environment, Electricity, heat, steam and Food & Rural Affairs DEFRA.
We have also utilised cooling purchased for own use 15,796 17,943 DEFRAs 2014 conversion factors within our reporting Companys chosen methodology.
In some cases, we have extrapolated total intensity measurement: emissions by utilising available information from part of a Emissions reported above reporting period and extending it to apply to the full reporting normalised to tonnes of CO e 2 year.
For example, this has occurred where supplier invoices per total GBP1,000,000 revenue 19.16 19.98 for the full reporting year were not available prior to the publication of this years Annual Report & Accounts.
For further details, our methodology document can be found at www.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 55 Corporate responsibility continued Environment continued Scope of reported emissions Intensity ratio Emissions data has been reported for all the Groups In order to express our annual emissions in relation to operations in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, France, a quantifiable factor associated with our activities, we Germany, Ireland, Malaysia, Morocco, North America, have used revenue in our intensity ratio calculation, as Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, this is the most relevant indication of our growth and Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates and the UK.
provides for a good comparative measure over time.
In the prior year, given the short time between the passing Baseline for 2014 targets of the Regulations and the preparation of the report, it The 2013 data forms the baseline data for was not possible to report on all emissions.
We have put subsequent periods.
the following procedures in place to enable us to report on a wider range of emissions this year: Carbon Disclosure Project Development of a Group-wide mandatory We once again took part in this project during the year under greenhouse gas reporting manual review by reporting our gas Scope 1 and electricity Scope 2 emissions for the financial year ended 30 September 2013.
Roll-out of Group-wide training sessions Country level review procedures Reducing carbon and waste Group-level quality reporting We have continued to make a concerted effort to reduce The emissions that have not been included in this years our carbon footprint.
For example, across our business we report relate to building usage in our operations in have continued to focus on the reduction of business travel Belgium and the United Arab Emirates, where energy emissions by: usage is not itemised on invoices.
We have also not Introducing a new car travel policy includedemissions derived from refrigerant gas usage in Purchasing new, more fuel efficient fleets relation to our operations in XRT Brazil, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates, as this information has not been Introducing the use of bio-ethanol gathered throughout the reporting year.
Promoting the use of rail travel Installing more offices with motion sensor LED lights Restricting heating to working hours in many of our sites Total CO e by type Sum of CO e 2 2 tonnes 7,539 6,607 Europe 1,075 4,724 AAMEA 624 4,465 North America and Brazil 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 14,000 Combustion of fuel and 9,238 operation of facilities Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Electricity, heat, steam and 15,796 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use cooling purchased for own use 56 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Industry We pride ourselves on really understanding our customers, both their common needs and their unique requirements, and we look to deploy that empathy and insight in our CR activities.
Understanding the issues small and medium Supporting local businesses and organisations sized businesses face Our vision of being the most valuable supporter of small and 30,000 Having a clear understanding of the challenges our medium sized businesses means helping them understand conversations each day customers face is important to usto ensure our products and navigate through the business challenges they face.
This with our customers and services meet their needs.
In additionto the over year we launched our global Business Navigators campaign, 30,000conversations we have each day with our customers which aims to raise awareness and promote the benefits through oursupportoffering, we also conduct regular mentoring can have on business growth and success.
research and surveys, both locally and globally, to collect Locally we sponsor different organisations which are aiding as much insight and information as we can.
small and medium sized businesses.
For example, in the UKI Our global Sage Business Index survey helps us remain we are sponsoring Europes first 1m technology accelerator close to what matters most to SMEs.
This year we surveyed programme, Ignite 100, to support technology start-ups close to 14,000 businesses across 18 countries, providing in Newcastle, who are encouraged to join an 18-week 13,710 businesses polled for a comprehensive study of business confidence and the accelerator programme.
As well as 10,000 funding, Sage our Sage Business Index pressures faced by decision makers within companies offers guidance and expert advice to the Ignite 100 start-ups.
In North America we support the National Association of Local markets also carry out their own research allowing Women Business Owners annual event and conference, Sage to gain an insight into individual markets and adapt whose aim is to support women business owners and give our business to support them.
For example, in Spain we them the power to succeed.
"We encourage education in carry out ""Sage Observatory"", a collection of four annual our industry through events such as theEconomics and surveys learning about how technology, the government Management week, and through our work with the South and the economy are affecting SMEs in Spain."
"African Institute of Chartered Accountants ""SAICA""."
Sage also hosts online forums and information sessions throughout the year, providing knowledge on economic and legal changes that are affecting SMEs.
Ignite 100 Sage provided 10,000 funding to Ignite 100, Europes first 1m technology accelerator programme, as well as providing guidance and expert advice to Ignite 100s start-ups.
10,000 funding for Ignite Im delighted that Sage is now leading the way by working with Ignite 100 to support early-stage technology start-ups.
Sage has inspired plenty of entrepreneurs in the past.
Now that it is actively supporting technology businesses in Newcastle through community support and mentoring, it will continue to do so in the future.
Paul Smith, co-founder and director of Ignite 100 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 57 Corporate responsibility continued Industry continued Helping non-profit organisations with business software In South Africa, we continue our support of the Life is also high on our agenda.
In North America, Sage has College, which focuses on developing emotional intelligence, continued a partnership with TechSoup, an organisation entrepreneurship and leadership in youth.
We continue to 12 that provides free business software to not-for-profit sponsor their annual event, The Life College Xchange, a Apprentices in the UKI organisations.
This year alone, Sage has donated software competition where students are provided with seed capital to 438 organisations, with a value of $221,000 135,000, to launch a small business.
The event also gives students twice as much as the previous year.
the chance to network and learn from business experts.
In Portugal we support Vodafone Labs Lisboa, Start-up Lisboa We also support our customers by providing them with and Start-up Campus campaigns, which all work towards 438 opportunities they would not usually have.
This year we the development of entrepreneurs.
Organisations Sage has launched the Bag yourself a Billboard competition through donated software to which the UK-based online creative community, Gather.
ly, Throughout the business we develop the new talent of won a 100,000 advertising space in Londons tech city tomorrow through apprenticeships.
In the UKI, we take to help boost their business.
on 12 apprentices each year, offering valuable learning opportunities for students to build a career.
In South Africa, Developing the entrepreneurs of tomorrow in addition to our long-standing partnership with SAICA, We believe passionately in the value of developing future through the Thuthuka programme we identify students with an aptitude for maths, science and accounting.
The winner talent, both within Sage and in the wider business community.
is awarded the Olympiad prize, including a full bursary from We work with a number of organisations to help nurture the Sage to further their education in accountancy.
In South entrepreneurs of tomorrow, such as the Junior Achievement Africa, we also provide a full bursary and three-week vacation Foundation in Spain which gives university students the scheme to a student studying either an accountancy or experience of developing their own company.
Twenty Sage technology-related course through the Tomorrow Trust.
volunteers worked with the 152 students who took part and guided four projects through to thenational competition.
David Milstead, UK Apprentice David Milstead, 22, is one of our 12 apprentices in the UK with a passion for coding and product development.
On deciding university wasnt for him, he found the Sage apprenticeship scheme was the right path to develop his skills and build a career.
David is now a key member of our research and development team.
Im really enjoying the apprenticeshipand software development is definitely the career path for me.
Id like to go on to a junior developers role so I can progress my career through to senior developer and manager.
David Milstead 58 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
