how we create value Key elements of our business model Attract Strong Localised Technology These are some of our unique selling Trusted brand accountant and First-class products and and pricing support amongst SMEs business partner points and are the reasons why services choice ecosystem customers are attracted to Sage.
Installed base Activate Over the years, weve built a strong recurring Software perpetual licence revenue base by providing customers with additional services beyond their core software Software subscription product, particularly through our support offering.
and support Software subscription offers us the opportunity Standalone support to have closer relationships with more of our customers, particularly those who do not maintain a support contract and own their software product via a perpetual licence.
This will help us to build on our existing base of over 450,000 software Connected services subscription contracts.
Grow Technology and the cloud are changing how software is delivered and how businesses Higher value use their data.
The new wave of valueMore products and More users products and adding services we are providing will help services cross-sell services up-sell us to deepen the relationships we have with our customers and drive higher growth.
Retain Customer for life We aim to keep our customers for life by delivering them the complete, integrated suite of software, services and support.
This helps us to deliver great experiences that make our customers want to stay with us as their businesses grow.
Growth drivers KPIs and other metrics Our sources of revenue Recurring revenue Organic growth: 7% 2013: 6% Attract more new customers Sage One Hybrid cloud Recurring revenue comprises: through key products such paying paying Maintenance and support M&S as Sage One, hybrid cloud and subscriptions subscriptions Software subscription Sage ERP X3 86,000 1,500 Non-software subscription Up 146% Up 100% Payments Sage ERP X3 customers Around 73% of Sages total revenue is recurring, with customers paying on a monthly, annual or usage basis in 4,800 return for a range of different services.
Up 14% Our subscription and payments contracts can be characterised as pay-to-play, where customers retain the right to use a software application or service for as Activate customers through a Number of contracts long as they continue to pay.
support relationship Recurring revenue is much less susceptible to economic Activate customers through 1.8m cycles because many of these services are either critical a softwaresubscription Down 3% to a businesss ability to continue trading or are seen as relationship particularly indispensable and value-adding.
where those customers dont have a support contract Our focus on having more active and productive Organic annualised value of either for their core product, relationships with all of our customers, preferably through the software subscriber base a connected service or both.
subscription but also through support relationships, means recurring revenue growth is a strong indicator of 220m whether were succeeding in delivering on our strategy.
"Up 29% Software and software-related services ""SSRS"" Organic contraction: 1% 2013: flat SSRS revenue comprises: Grow licence average selling price Premium support penetration New licence sales ""ASP"" through software upgrades Upgrades and migrations and migrations 92% Professional services Rate maintained Grow support ASP through Other software-related services up-selling support customers to SSRS revenue captures perpetual licence sales, where premium support customers pay an up-front fee for the right to own and Number of payments cross-sell Grow share of wallet by expanding use their software forever."
This represents the way customers the number of services taken by software has been sold traditionally in the industry for each customer many years.
15,800 Grow share of wallet by expanding Up 14% SSRS revenue is typically more susceptible to economic the number of paying users for cycles.
When the economy is buoyant, businesses have each product more confidence and so are more willing to invest in their IT infrastructure.
However, when economic conditions are more Minimise the number of customers Recurring contract renewal rate challenging, businesses tend to reduce unnecessary who leave us for another provider expenditure and delay big investment decisions.
83% Minimise the number of customers Up 1% Our focus on a measuredtransition to software cancelling their support contract subscription will mean that, over time, revenue for our Drive higher net promotor scores software products will increasingly shift out of SSRS and into recurring revenue.
Understanding our customers Customer demand drivers The world of an SME is an exciting but rapidly changing place, with each day bringing new competitive, economic and regulatory challenges.
Sage has been the advocate of SME businesses for over Customer demand drivers 30 years and weve developed an intimate understanding of Weregularly speak toour customersto understand what matters most to them.
their needs over that time.
We continue to play an important Weve found there are some key needs that resonate particularlystrongly with role in helping them achieve success through the innovative SME businesses, whichfall into five areas.
They want: products and value-adding services that we provide.
Our global presence and considerable resources mean our customers trust us to stay the course with them as Access to a knowledgeable person for support they grow and be there for them when they need us most.
Peace of mind around legislative compliance Addressing our markets We address the SME market by dividing it into Appealing and intuitive software three segments: Control to achieve success and grow Start-up and small businesses SSB Small to medium sized businesses SMB More efficient working Mid-market businesses We do this because the characteristics of a small Meeting customer needs business differ markedly to those of a larger business.
Our product and service offering has evolved in direct response to what our customers Recognising these differences and tailoring our products have told us is important to them.
This has influenced our approach to support in and services accordingly gives us a competitive advantage particular, which we manage asa value-adding service in its own right, rather than in our markets and is one of the reasons why customers as basicaftercare.
The demand drivers have also defined our strategy, where we are adapting our product and service offeringin response totrends inour markets, particularly in relation to cloud technology and subscription.
This section considers each demand driver and explores how support, technology and subscription are helping us to more effectively meet the challenges posed by each.
Support Technology Subscription See page 18 See page 20 See page 22 14 14 The Sage Gr The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 oup plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Customer demand drivers This is because whilst start-ups are least likely to have any kind of in-house accounting expertise, they also have the Access to a knowledgeable simplest needs.
Once they become accustomed to their person for support software and the regulations that affect them, they can often grow comfortable being self-sufficient.
Most entrepreneurs dont go into business to be However, larger businesses contend with greater a bookkeeper or an accountant, yet maintaining complexity and reporting burdens, so a higher proportion good accounting records is important.
of them rely on the support services provided by us and As businesses grow the range and variety of our business partners.
issues they face also grows, with increased operational complexity, international expansion, hiring more employees and a greater reporting Peace of mind around burden just some examples of new challenges legislative compliance they might face.
Many small businesses dont have the resources Our support offering is an effective way for to maintain accounting, payroll and regulatory our customers to remain compliant with new expertise in-house.
This is why millions of our legislation.
In recent years weve seen a raft of customers value being able to turn to us for help changes affecting SME businesses, particularly through our support offering.
around electronic filing and payroll.
Our support offering Premium support Over the years, weve been pioneering in delivering proactive Our premium support offering represents the highest tier business support to SMEs where our support experts of support and is where customers gain access to the provide technical, accounting and regulatory advice to most value-adding features, including free selected software our customers.
updates, priority call answering andonline training materials.
We deliver much of this support directly either online or For many customers these services are highly valuable over the telephone, where we receive over 30,000 calls because theyare often the only available resources they a day, and we even offer on-site support when required.
have to help them identify, understand and comply with new legislation that affects them.
Our professional services offering that delivers system installation, maintenance and support services We are also highly proactive in preparing our customers to customers with more complex or bespoke ERP fornew legislation by running awareness campaigns and requirements is supported bya global network of working with government to not only understand what is around20,000 business partners.
changing, but to use our understanding of the SME market to shape those changes.
Our support services aredelivered locally, which sets us apart from our competitors.
Our customers value being Always up to date with subscription able to contact someone who speaks their language, Paying for software ona subscription basis is also an who is familiar with their local reporting conventions and effective way to remain compliant.
As asubscription who is available during the working day in their time zone.
 purchasing a service from us, they are entitled to all future software upgrades as soon as The need for support they become available.
There is a greater propensity for larger businesses to need support.
For example, arounda thirdof start-up andsmall Customers therefore dont need to worry about whether their businesses have support, whereas the rate for SMBs is softwarehas the necessary features to allow them to comply over 60%, and for mid-market customers itis around 75%.
withnew standards or conventions, which means they canconcentrate onrunning their businesses.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 Understanding our customers continued Customer demand drivers continued Tailored mobile applications Modern user interfaces are also helping to make Appealing and intuitive software business software accessible to a greater range of users.
The cloud and technology are redefining the Financial users have been the primary target audience expectations people have of the software they use.
for business software traditionally, but business data Touch-based user interfaces, big data analytics, has significant utility outside the finance office.
more powerful mobile devices, mobile applications and greater integration between services are just For example, field-based salespeople and engineers can some examples of how technology is helping our be much more efficient if theyre able to access data and industry meet customer needs.
manage their work flows in real time.
When this information is presented in a way that is intuitive to them, rather than a financial user, it is easier for them  SaaS to engage with it to improve their productivity.
SaaS is a great example of where the cloud is delivering Were using the latest cloud technologies to liberate real change for start-up and small businesses.
For example, customer data so thatit can be accessed by arange of many entrepreneurs have traditionally used spreadsheet new mobile applications, including mobile billing, sales software as their first accounting solution largely because and payments.
This is helping to broaden the appeal and they usually already have access to it.
relevance of business information to more users.
Accounting software has also tended to address the needs of the bookkeeper rather than the owner-manager Control to achieve success in the past, making accounting seem complicated to those who need tomaintain business records but arent and grow financial experts.
SaaS and mobility offer businesses an SaaS is changing this by providing owner-managers unprecedented level of control because they with straightforward, easy-to-access accounting solutions provide access to data anytime, anywhere.
that make bookkeeping much less onerous.
However, there are a range of use cases for SaaS is delivered through an internet browser and is this technology that vary across the segments designed to be much more intuitive, elegant and simple we serve.
so that non-financial users can pick it up quickly.
The rise of SaaS has created new market opportunities across the world, particularly in our markets in North Mobility use cases America and the UK where new technology adoption In the case of start-ups and small businesses, it is likely the is most pervasive.
highly-mobile owner-manager is both the bookkeeper and Our SaaS solution for start-up and small businesses is the decision maker, so being able torecord newtransactions Sage One to read more about Sage One, turn to page 31. and view key business information whilst travelling is extremely valuable.
Engaging user experiences In the case of a more established business, decision makers Advances in software design and the user experience find value in having mobile access to business intelligence, arent confined to new SaaS solutions.
The success of but core accounting and invoice processing will almost touch-based smartphones and tablets has given rise to certainly be managed by office-based finance teams.
a change in how users expect to interact with the software they use.
We believe making these distinctions is important so that we are clear on where and how we will add the most value.
Customers want software to be modern, engaging and visually appealing, which makes it more intuitive and learnable for the average user.
Were responding by modernising the user interface design of some of our most successful products.
Examples of where customers are already seeing these improvements include the UK version of Sage 50 and Sage ERP X3 version 7, which employs a completely new, web-first user interface.
16 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Data security, maintenance and customisation More established businesses need to weigh the benefits More efficient working of moving data and business infrastructure to the cloud against the operational risks of doing so.
Subscription pricing and a change in the way software is being delivered to customers is Businesses are often concerned about who owns their providing businesses with greater flexibility.
data and where it is stored when they move it to the cloud because they need to consider the privacy, business interruption and disaster recovery implications.
Pay for what you use They may also have concerns aroundexercisingless The industry is moving away from delivering softwareas control over when software updates and maintenance one large application in favour of several smaller applications, are carried out, which can be an issue if they occur during with each one offering a discrete piece of functionality.
critical reporting periods and something goes wrong.
When coupled with subscription, this lets businesses pay Customisation is important to larger businesses, for only the software they need, rather than requiring them particularly in the mid-market.
However, depending on to buy everything an application can do even if they dont the technology involved, there may be limits to how much use all of it.
a pure cloud solution can be tailored to the specificneeds of a particular business.
Were doing this through our connected services offering, which includes integrated payments, CRM, business On-premise software remains popular because it continues intelligence and mobility.
to provide businesses with comfort and flexibility around these issues.
However, we dont want these businesses to Weve also developedtechnology that looks to give all have to curtail their cloud vision and weve been innovative of our customers access to these benefits even if they in addressing this challenge.
dont want to move all of their infrastructure to the cloud.
Manyestablished businesseshave invested heavily in their Our cloud ERP productsoffer our SMB and mid-market existing system and would prefer not to start over.
customers the best of both worlds: they can place their data and business infrastructure in the cloud but continue Greater efficiency through collaboration to have a level of control that is more consistent with an Technology is helping users to work more collaboratively with on-premise environment.
each other, their accountants and their business partners.
Lower-risk investment decisions through Weve seen some of the strongest evidence of the benefits subscription of collaboration with our accountant partners and their small Investing in IT infrastructure is often expensive.
up-front costs make new ventures risky because, if they Accountants are looking for ways to reduce their costs fail, businesses are left with equipment and software they and add more value.
They want to be able to offer a more dont need.
rounded andconsultative service, as well assaving time and Subscription lets businesses achieve their growth plans in a reducing cost by transferring clientdata and documentation controlled way without taking on this additional risk.
decisions become operating decisions because subscription As more businesses move towards housing some or all payments are made on a monthly or annual basis, whereas oftheir data online, either because they use a cloud product a perpetual licence purchase requires a higher, up-front fee.
or because they have a connected on-premise solution, Businesses can therefore put the necessary systems in place accountants will be able to do much more for their quickly, for moderate additional cost and in a way that can customers in real time, work more efficiently and expand be scaled back with limited financial impact if the new their addressable market beyond their local area.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17 Meeting customer needs Support Providing customers with first-class support Meeting the people who are incredibly passionate about supporting SME businesses.
Sage customer support, UKI Jim McGlen, Head of Customer Services for was a new piece of legislation, was brought Linked customer Start-Up andSmall Business in the UKI, instils in out there was a big initiative to help educate our demand drivers: his team that good customer service is about customers in the changes that would affect their Access to a getting the basics right.
It is refreshing to work for a company that knowledgeable listening.
Its using your resources andexpertise, doesnt just sell products but wants to be there for person for support and being truly passionate about our customers, our customers, effectively acting as a helping hand he explains.
At Sagewe are focused on giving our to them.
customers a breath-taking experience one that We are constantly changing and evolving the way exceeds all expectations.
We strive to deliver the that Sage delivers customer service based on kind of service that people will talk about in the what our customers are telling us, and our people days to come with their friends and colleagues.
areactively engaged in requesting feedback.
For Our customer service employees undergo a example, we introduced a 24 7 Sage One support rigorous training process that equips them with the line afterrecognising that customers do not always knowledge they need in order to guide and support have the opportunity to contact us during normal businesses in the right way.
Lucy Hogg, customer working hours.
support advisor forSage One, has first-hand Lucy adds, Ive worked at some companies experience of this, Teams are coached in every that are very inward facing always focused aspect of the job.
When I joined Sage One I spent on what they need to do to hit targets.
At Sage an intense five week period learning both the theory the emphasis is definitely on what do we and the practice side of the role.
A coach would sit need to do to help our customers more.
with me and listen to my practice calls, reviewing It is always about the customer and that is what went well and what needed to be worked on.
something that makes me incredibly proud Lucy believes this training, combined with our to work here.
commitment to helping customers run their businesses, sets us apart from other software companies.
When Real-Time Information, which 1.5m 3,000 30,000 support contracts technical experts calls per day globally Turn to pages 26 to 28 to read about how were looking to build active relationships with customers who dont have a support contract.
18 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19 Meeting customer needs continued Technology Purposefully innovating with technology Small businesses can share, store and collaborate using Sage One and Google Apps for Business.
Jason Savage Photography, USA, using Sage One As a self-taught photographer, Jason Savage Being mobile is paramount and working in Linked customer understands the need to travel light.
Over the past this way gives me the freedom to manage demand drivers: few years he has turned his hobby into a successful my cash flow and send invoices from Appealing and business venture that takes him all over the world, wherever I am, whether its on a laptop intuitive software making the ability to work and respond on the or my smartphone.
achieve success Jason pays for Sage One on subscription, which and grow Based in Montana, USA, Jason became a is something that suits the requirements of his More efficient Sage customer in 2013 after finding other products business well.
Paying in this way is great for me, working aimed at businesses of his size too complex he says.
Its less worrisome as there is no and not able to offer the mobility he needed.
Having round the clock access to my finances As a business owner Jason cites reliability, support whilst Im out on a shoot is extremely valuable to and ease of use as the most important factors me, Jason explains.
I travel frequently and am when choosing business software.
I chose Sage sometimes on the road for long stretches, so being One because of its clean, simplistic layout and able to keep up with my accounts and my clients usability as well as its mobile features.
The fact that at the same time makes my job a lot easier.
my data is also automatically backed up to Google Drive from Sage One gives me extra reassurance Jason uses Sage One in conjunction with Google and peace of mind.
Apps, which means he can access the documents that are essential to his business quickly and easily We have recently relocated and knowing that I whilst collaborating and liaising with clients and have the support of helpful, informed people at the suppliers in real time.
end of the phone if I ever need them is encouraging to me as a business owner.
86,000 Sage One paying subscriptions globally at 30 September 2014 Turn to Capturing the technology opportunity on pages 29 to 32 to read more about how weve responded to the varying needs of the customers in our segments.
20 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 www.
com The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 21
