14 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 People Developing the capabilities and competencies of Seniors employees to meet tomorrows customer requirements is critical to the future success of the Group.
emPoWered loCal management and health and safety training, as detailed resPonding to the The Group benefits from having empowered, below.
Employee development, together with oso disaster entrepreneurial and highly engaged local a renewed emphasis on the recruitment and The Oso landslide on 22 March 2014 management.
As much authority and succession planning processes, will remain occurred close to Seniors responsibility as possible, within a well-defined an important focus for the Group in the future.
Washington State businesses and directly control framework, is devolved to the senior affected many employees of Senior Aerospace grouP develoPment Programme management team at each of our operations.
businesses in the northwest of the USA.
The quality of Seniors people is a core This culture of empowerment and autonomous The landslide wreaked havoc in seconds, competency of the Group and how it recruits, collaboration, along with the strong reputation killing 43 people and destroying many homes.
trains and motivates its staff is pivotal.
Since of the Group, helps attract and retain experienced Senior Aerospace AMT supported the 2009, Senior has operated a Group senior executives from within the industry.
emergency services, serving as a major hub Development Programme aimed at developing and collection point for emergency supplies values midto senior-level managers so that they and charity donation, ensuring the emergency Seniors values of operating with integrity and acquire the broader skills essential to operate crews working in the disaster received in a respectful and ethical manner, along with at higher management levels.
The training what they needed, such as shovels and entrepreneurial spirit, guide our people in the provides an intensive learning and development chainsaws, along with much-needed support judgements, actions and decisions they make forum for current high-potential senior for the communities and homeless families.
This is underpinned by our tell it as managers.
During 2014, we introduced three it is philosophy.
new courses: Programme Management to enhance our capabilities to support the Caring for develoPing our PeoPle increasing complexity of successfully managing our assets The Groups employees are one of its multiple projects with the Groups customers: most valuable assets, with the financial and Fast Track Advanced Management Programme operational progress made during 2014, and a modified Ashridge Business School open earlier years, largely due to their hard work programme for our future leaders focusing on and dedication.
The delivery of our strategy developing key skills and knowledge across depends on the right people, skills and four central themes of providing leadership, capabilities being in place.
Each of Seniors making the most of people, driving growth businesses is responsible for continuously and realising results, and setting direction: developing its people and the skills and and Driving Innovation a tailored programme training needs of employees are typically developed with Ashridge Business School reviewed through a performance review and to enhance the capabilities of our Divisional development process.
Senior continues to Management and Operational CEOs to support increase its investment in developing people innovation, collaboration and growth within This year, Senior Aerospace BWT at all levels of the organisation, and in addition the Group and to explore commercial insights introduced a wellness programme to improve to local training and development, Senior has and opportunities for the Group in the context the health of its employees.
This has involved expanded the Group Development Programme of collaborative autonomy.
promoting healthy living and community awareness across its family of employees.
A number of initiatives have been introduced to support these aims, including the provision of free fresh fruit in the workplace and a series of on-site wellbeing clinics provided by occupational health.
BWT has also combined the Healthy Living theme with enhancing awareness and support of the local community by encouraging and supporting employees and their families across Senior in the UK to take part in one of two Stockport-based charitable sporting events in association with Life Leisure a not-for-profit social enterprise company and registered charity.
As part of this activity, over 60 employees from Senior Weston, BWT, and Bird Bellows participated in the Big Stockport 10k Run.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 ProteCting our PeoPle Safety standards strengthen our business by producing higherINVESTING IN LOCAL performing teams, lowering costs and creating more resilient operations.
COMMUNITIES The Boards commitment to safety starts with the Group Chief Executive who chairs the HSE Committee, setting the Groups The Group actively encourages its Similarly, employees of Senior Flexonics objectives for safety.
businesses to invest and support local Canada provide support by volunteering their All operations are required to prepare communities and sponsor good causes time to serve hot meals to members of society an improvement plan for HSE to further that are relevant to their business.
These experiencing hardship and also arranging food progress their safety and environmental relationships are normally managed at a banks on-site.
These are often long-standing performance.
local level, where the employees typically relationships which strengthen employees select charitable interests within their connections with their communities and safety record over the past five years community.
In some cases, our improve their understanding of the difficulties 3.75 businesses will make direct financial that others who are less fortunate experience.
3.48 3.59 contributions, sponsor or participate in Many Senior businesses raise charitable funds 2.94 2.97 charitable events.
For example, Senior through sports, such as Senior Flexonics Accidents per 100 employees Flexonics Cape Town provides financial Bartlett which sponsored 40 of its employees Lost Time support to the Carel du Toit Centre, a local to run in the 2014 Mill Race Marathon, an Accidents per charitable school supporting children with annual event in Chicago attracting over 7,000 100 employees 1.60 1.36 hearing disabilities through direct runners.
The business was a Platinum sponsor 1.13 0.98 0.95 contribution and matching employees for the race and supported the race with contributions.
Similarly, Senior Aerospace donations and sponsorship totalling $16,000.
10 11 12 13 14 Ketema supports the Paediatric Cancer Some Senior businesses also engage their Research Foundation, an organisation that local charities in their supply chain, such as equality and diversity funds and supports the research into Senior Aerospace Composites that appoints As a global business, Senior paediatric cancer.
Starkey, a Kansas non-profit-making employed 7,405 people organisation that supports individuals with Senior also encourages its employees at the end of 2014 2013 6,655 developmental disabilities, to help manage its to personally support local good causes in 14 countries: its management grades waste segregation and recycling programme.
that are important to them, as we believe alone comprise over 16 nationalities.
Seniors three businesses inWashington state, involving employees in community Diversity is therefore an integral part of Senior Aerospace AMT, Absolute and activities helps to build team spirit and how Senior operates.
To achieve this, Damar focus their efforts through the United maintain a positive working culture.
the Group promotes a policy of equal Way charitable programme.
Through a mixture For example, Senior Aerospace Bird opportunity in employment and believes of employee pledges, charity events and Bellows works in partnership with that employment-related decisions should corporate sponsorship $140,000 was raised Friends For Leisure, a UK charity always be based on relevant aptitudes, for local good causes.
The employees of all providing leisure activities for disabled skills and abilities.
The Group promotes this three businesses are also active in the young people from the Cheshire area.
policy, without unlawful consideration of United Way Days of Caring, giving up their Thebusiness sponsors its apprentices to sex, race, nationality, age, disability, religion time toparticipate in community restoration participate in social activities with disabled or any other category protected by law.
This year, their focus was to support children from the local community, Darrington, a community badly affected by diversity providing an invaluable opportunity for the the Oso landslide.
disabled youngsters to mix with other 19 14 14 people around their age and get involved Female Male ina variety of different activities.
86 86 81 A Total Group B Executive Committee C PLC Board A B C www.
com | Senior plc Number of employees %
