Strategic Report Joint venture partners Serco Foundation Serco is involved in a number of joint ventures with We also committed to promote and support the Serco commercial partners and customers.
The Serco Foundation was established in relationships, based on mutual trust and respect and December 2012 to work with charities and NGOs clarity of roles, are essential ingredients if a joint within the regions where Serco operates, to capitalise venture is to deliver excellent customer service.
on the passion of our people to do good and to make donations that will significantly benefit the campaigns Our Divisional Management Teams are responsible for of the charities it chooses to work with.
It will also seek relationships with our joint venture partners, to work with large scale Foundations and NGOs to supported by members of the Group Executive help them consider how to improve the delivery Committee and Board as appropriate.
This includes outcomes they seek to achieve.
holding regular strategy and review meetings with our partners.
In 2013, linked to the celebration of 25 years of Serco, our staff around the world carried out a wide range of fund-raising activities, which continued into 2014 and Strategic partners raised just over 500,000 for the nine regional charities We often deliver services as part of a consortium, which had been selected by our employees, all linked either as prime contractor or as a subcontractor.
This by our chosen initiative of supporting Every Child allows us to bring together companies with the skills to Everywhere.
These charities were: meet the precise requirements of a bid.
This includes working with voluntary sector organisations that often In the Americas St Jude Childrens Research lack the scale and experience to access major Hospital, Ronald McDonald House Charities and government programmes.
Responsibility for Military Child Education Coalition.
relationships with our strategic partners lies with the In India Swiss Emmaus Leprosy Relief work.
relevant contract and Divisional management.
In the Middle East Al Noor.
In Asia Pacific Canteen, KidsCan and Po Leung Community Kuk Society for the Protection of Women and Our communities are primarily the people who live and Children.
work around our contracts but our definition extends In the UK WhizzKidz.
to include the third-sector organisations we partner with to deliver a number of our contracts.
Concurrently during 2014, the Serco Foundation has been exploring a strategic relationship with a global Working with communities contributes directly to our charity to enable them to have access to the business success.
It helps to enhance our reputation experience and capabilities within Serco that might and build trust with our customers and the public, by help them to maximise their impact on the lives of demonstrating that Serco is a values-led organisation.
We are planning to run a Engaging also gives us a better understanding of pilot scheme with them, funded by the Serco communities needs, which can help us to win bids and Foundation during 2015 to prove the concept.
to operate existing contracts successfully, particularly where we are delivering services directly to the public.
Community investment We monitor our involvement with the communities we In 2014 we set an objective to recognise exceptional serve by recording our community investment through contributions made by our people to the communities donations of money, assets and time and have typically in which they live and work.
The Serco Pulse Awards aimed to invest 1% of adjusted pre-tax profits into the recognise people at every level and from every part of wider society.
Whilst in 2014 we are reporting a the company whose behaviours are making a significant loss in the year compared to profits difference, and providing role models that help shape previously, we have continued to support the our businesses in the future.
By recognising these communities we operate in.
As a result we invested individuals and teams we are rewarding the right 1,464k into society in 2014.
This is made up of: behaviours that demonstrate Sercos values.
During 2014 we reviewed and revised the award categories to Cash Donations 475k introduce a specific Community Award.
This award Employee volunteering 296k recognises people who have, through Serco, given an Gifts in kind 332k exceptional and sustained level of commitment to the Management time 361k communities we serve.
Sixteen divisional pulse community awards have been recognised of which five will receive a Global Pulse Community Award.
These reflect just a few examples of the many initiatives that contracts undertake to engage with the communities in which they work.
