Strategic Report Across more than two thirds of our business, we are Environment working on our customers premises and are therefore Sercos aspiration for zero harm applies as much to the not in direct control of the environment in which we environment as it does to health and safety.
That is why collaborative working with our good business sense to protect our reputation and customers on environmental issues is important.
Serco reduce our energy consumption and environmental recognises its responsibility to ensure that any adverse impact.
Our environmental policy is also driven by the impact on the environment is reduced, or where desire to do what is right for the world we live in.
possible, eliminated by applying the most appropriate management systems at contract level whether Although Sercos activities are typically managed at a designed by our customers or by us.
local level, we are united in our strategy of measuring our impact and reducing our environmental footprint.
Where we are not in control of the working This supports a range of initiatives in our operations environment, we support our customers in applying around the world.
A small number of examples of their own environmental management systems and initiatives included: objectives.
In Americas, consulting and guidance were In 2014, Serco again responded to the Carbon provided to industrial contracts on a wide range of Disclosure Project FTSE 350 CDP request for environmental issues, with examples including information achieving an improved score of 97% 16th hazardous waste disposal, wastewater treatment, equal and 2nd in our business sector, compared to ozone depleting substances, industrial hygiene 92% 18th equal in the FTSE 350 report in 2013, topics and others.
retaining us in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership In Australia, at Acacia Prison we engaged in a Index.
partnership into a hydroponic nursery and seedling production.
Creating training, employment opportunities in a sustainable business model.
Also across their immigration centres they introduced biodegradable plates to eliminate 1000s of plastic plates being manufactured and waste to landfill.
In the Middle East, our aviation business is looking at continuous descent approach and climb departure to reduce fuel and CO e emissions.
2 In India, 70% of operations are now certified to ISO14001.
In the UK, we are implementing a Combined Heat and Power solution at Tenterden Leisure Centre and introducing an LED lighting upgrade of external lighting and plant controls at Lilleshall National Sports Centre.
Where environmental initiatives have been identified specific indicators relevant to the project are agreed so that delivery and where possible impact can be assessed.
This is monitored within the relevant Division and managed locally to ensure appropriate ownership and sustainability of projects.
In 2015, the introduction in the UK of the Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme ESOS regulations will require Serco to present to the Executive Committee costed energy reduction initiatives for a representative section of the business.
