Strategic Report These two implementations represent the first steps Employee engagement on our journey to globally consistent learning and We have continued to build on best practices in recruitment solutions that will greatly improve our engagement through 2014.
A comparative analysis capabilities in those areas.
Both integrate to our study, Engagement links to business performance, existing HR systems driving further value.
Plans to established robust and replicable positive correlations extend both solutions across the UK, the Asia Pacific between employee engagement at Serco and staff region and other geographies are now in turnover, sickness absence and lost time incident development.
Recognising its importance employee engagement was added into Leadership Performance Work was also completed in 2014 to review our people and Development and Divisional Performance Review policies and standards as part of a broader refresh of processes as a key performance indicator.
Having relaunched these the focus in 2015 will be to ensure our people standards for Employee We measure engagement through an annual Wellbeing and the Employee Lifecycle are embedded Viewpoint survey.
Our survey questionnaire was with specific focus on resourcing, developing, restructured and expanded in 2014 to improve our managing and rewarding our people.
ability to interpret and respond to the results, while analysis of global team sizes enabled us to update the Diversity minimum team size for engagement scores from ten to Serco is an inherently diverse business.
We value seven, providing greater granularity of results and difference and work to create an inclusive and fair greater precision in action planning.
We treat people fairly and equally, Viewpoint Survey successfully launched and accept and embrace diversity and, as far as is completed in Q3 achieved a strong participation rate reasonably possible, reflect the local communities in 81% for all employees globally, 98% for leaders.
current global engagement strengths are: diversity and inclusion, line management, customer focus and Serco ensures equality, diversity, inclusion, and performance management.
anti-discriminatory practice in the workplace and community, offers fair treatment in every aspect of During 2015 we will continue to focus on improving working life and fosters a positive climate of employee engagement, with particular emphasis on our priority relations where all employees are treated with respect engagement drivers: recognition, acting on employee and dignity.
We adopt equality-proofed polices and feedback, connection to Serco, and use of employee processes to promote equality in the workforce and knowledge, skills and abilities.
monitor its diversity where allowed to do so by law.
According to our 2014 engagement survey, 78% of Developing systems and processes employees believe that Serco values diversity.
This is Through 2014 we continued work to identify and up 7% from 2013.
By comparison, externally the global analyse opportunities for enhancement of our HR average is 71%.
Diversity and inclusion is one of our systems MyHR functionality and enhancements with areas of strength in engagement.
Milestones for 2014 included the implementation of new learning and recruitment At 31December 2014, the numbers of men and solutions.
women employed by Serco were as follows: At the beginning of 2014 it was recognised that the Number Percentage implementation of a new Learning Management Male Female Male Female System LMS would be fundamental to delivering Directors 7 3 70% 30% the numerous compliance and behavioural training requirements outlined in the Corporate Renewal Senior Managers 70 12 85% 15% Programme.
The new LMS was successfully 1 Employees 73,553 41,489 64% 36% implemented for the UK in Q3, going live to a growing number of pilot audiences.
A comprehensive training curriculum to achieve global training objectives for 1 At 31December 2014, we had 118,621 employees, of which we had gender information on 115,042.
Source: Serco global HR systems, Corporate Renewal is being delivered from the figures provided on a total headcount basis includes joint ventures.
A pilot for a new global recruitment solution went live successfully at Fiona Stanley Hospital in Australia in Q2.
The implementation includes a new recruitment website http: fshcareers.
au to attract candidates and drive them to live vacancies, robust candidate tracking, talent pooling to create a searchable database of prospective candidates, and an extensive reporting and analytical capability.
Through the remainder of 2014, over 10,000 applications were processed through the system.
To put this single site pilot in context, globally Serco connected with in excess of 700,000 prospective candidates in 2014 through our recruitment processes includes estimated contact through all channels, eg mass volume campaigns and recruitment events, on top of c. 585,000 actual recorded applications.
