Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility By acting responsibly, we will enhance our financial For Serco to be successful and performance and create sustainable value for our sustainable, we have to work in the shareholders.
Corporate responsibility CR is therefore embedded within all aspects of the Serco right way.
This means living up to Management System SMS so that it is built into the our responsibilities to our customers, way we operate.
The SMS defines the rules that govern the public, our employees, partners, the way we behave, operate and deliver our strategy.
It encompasses a set of Group-wide policies and suppliers, communities and the standards, covering subjects ranging from business environment.
conduct and ethics, health, safety and the environment HSE, people to procurement and supply chain.
During 2014, we completed a comprehensive review Being a responsible business means and republished the SMS along with an extended and ensuring that we: fully refreshed Code of Conduct.
The way we manage our responsibilities and our always do the right thing: performance in the year are summarised below.
are open and transparent with our Managing corporate responsibility Our CR framework encompasses: our people: health customers, our people and the and safety: communities: the environment: our societies we serve: marketplace, which covers our relationships with our customers, suppliers and other parties: and our commitment to ethics and business conduct.
deliver on our commitments and comply with the law: The Board has ultimate responsibility for our Group business strategy which encompasses our approach to CR.
One of our Non-Executive Directors is the Board engage with and motivate our sponsor for CR and chairs the Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee CRRC.
More information on the people: CRRC can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 78. act safely and with respect for the This Board Committee has oversight of our approach environment and those with whom to CR and its governance, ethics, risk management, we work: security and health, safety and environment matters.
This committee met four times during 2014 receiving at each meeting formal progress reports on the minimise business risks: elements making up our CR framework.
The Group Chief Executive Officer is a member of the achieve appropriate financial returns: CRRC and is responsible for promoting the Groups and approach to CR and its effective implementation across the Group.
This is agreed with the Executive Committee which oversees its implementation.
develop and safeguard our reputation and brand.
Each CR element has a designated Group lead responsible for engaging with Divisional leads to develop an appropriate strategy, objectives, and performance indicators and monitor and report on performance.
Each Divisional Executive Management Team under the direction of the Divisional Chief Executive then develops specific plans to address the elements within the CR framework relevant to their business operations and strategy.
