Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Ensuring ethical standards People At the heart of being a responsible business is a We are trusted to deliver essential and life-enhancing commitment to doing the right thing.
To support this services that our communities depend on.
Delivering commitment in 2014 we further strengthened ethical great service starts with our colleagues.
We depend governance across the business with the appointment on their skills and commitment to deliver the services of Ethics Leads.
Reporting to the relevant Divisional our customers expect.
They contribute directly to our Executive Management team they are responsible for reputation and ability to grow.
the development and implementation of the Divisions ethics and compliance programme in line with Group We recognise the privileged role we are given, and strategy and assessed risks.
Working collaboratively that we must enable our people to deliver great with colleagues on the Divisional Executive service.
We must also make it easy to manage our Management team they support the business in workforce with standard, simple and intuitive systems identifying and resolving ethical challenges, risks and and processes: potential conflicts.
They are also responsible for managing our whistle-blowing Speak Up process and We want our leaders to be fit for the future, agile investigating and resolving issues raised.
and adaptable and clear on the behaviours and results expected of them.
Our Speak Up process is supported by an online We want our colleagues to be highly engaged and whistle-blowing case management system provided passionate about service.
We want them to share by a third party independent provider.
This was fully our values and a sense of personal responsibility for implemented across the Group in 2014.
These delivering great customer outcomes, and achieve processes along with our Speak Up policies and them time after time.
standards were reviewed as part of the SMS refresh in We want our workforce and people management 2014 with changes made to strengthen them.
This was practices to have an unrivalled reputation for supported by specific training of those involved in the effectiveness and efficiency.
investigation of Speak Up issues.
Leadership model Awareness of Speak Up was raised with the relaunch of An objective for 2014 was to roll out our new our Code of Conduct www.
This was launched at the beginning The results of our employee engagement survey of 2014 when work began to integrate it into our Viewpoint showed that 80% felt that they had leadership hiring, profiling and performance review received the information they needed to understand processes.
The revisions to leadership hiring were Sercos Code of Conduct with 73% feeling they can used to good effect throughout the year with a report unethical conduct without fear above the number of significant senior leadership hires Aonbenchmark average of 69%.
successfully completed, bringing high quality, well-reputed talent into the organisation and Of the Speak Up cases closed in 2014 all were reviewed strengthening our leadership capability.
Those that were not investigated during the year of Rupert Soames as Group Chief either had insufficient information from an anonymous Executive Officer presented an opportunity for his caller or were addressed directly by management.
56% shaping of the leadership model which was completed of the cases resulted in some corrective action being and incorporated in Q4.
taken: 15% resulted in disciplinary action: and a further 9% resulted in one or more employees being dismissed.
Alongside this, a new annual performance review 70% of the cases were closed within three months of the process was launched the Performance & issue being raised.
Development Review which integrates with the Leadership Model and is designed to support a A focus during 2014 has been on ethics training with balanced range of performance targets through over 800 leaders attending a face to face workshop Customer, Operational Excellence, People & Business Ethics in a Challenging World.
This was Culture and Financial objectives.
followed by a workshop for managers Values Based Leadership which was attended by over 3,500 During 2015 we intend to continue to build leadership managers.
capability through our talent management strategy, focusing on resourcing, development and career Online training was made available to support the progression, underpinned by our new leadership rollout of the refreshed Code of Conduct with an model.
introduction from Rupert Soames, Group Chief Executive Officer highlighting its importance to him and his commitment to it.
This is mandatory training for all employees that will be repeated annually 68
