Corporate Responsibility Report THE GROUP RECOGNISES ITS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITIES TOWARDS ITS SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS AND IS COMMITTED TO SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICE.
IN 2014 SIG CONTINUED TO INTEGRATE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR ACROSS THE GROUP, TAKING FORWARD THE KEY ASPECTS OF THE CR PLAN.
The Group implements policies that include consideration of social and environmental issues in its decision-making process, and is investing in the development and wellbeing of its people and communities.
SIG believes this approach supports the Group in achieving its business goals as well as growing shareholder value.
As a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible companies, SIG is pleased to inform stakeholders of the measures it is taking to continually develop its approach to CR, including how it monitors and improves performance reporting.
A confidential and independent hotline service is available to all BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND employees so that they can raise any concerns they have about how CODE OF ETHICS the Group conducts its business.
SIG believes this is an important SIG has in place Group-wide Ethics, Anti-Bribery & Corruption resource which supports a culture of openness throughout the and Ethical Trading & Human Rights policies.
The service is provided by an independent third party, are regularly reviewed, underpin the Groups CR programme and with a full investigation being carried out on all matters raised and a support its business integrity.
report prepared for feedback to the concerned party.
Ethics Policy Ethical Trading & Human Rights Policy SIG issues to all employees a Group-wide Ethics Policy which sets The Ethical Trading & Human Rights Policy covers the main issues out the standards and behaviours that are expected throughout that may be encountered in relation to product sourcing and sets the Groups operations.
The policy is designed to ensure that the out the standards of professionalism and integrity which should be business conforms to the highest ethical standards.
The policy can maintained by employees in all Group operations worldwide.
be viewed on the Companys website www.
The policy expresses the standards concerning: safe and fair The policy sets out the following key principles: working conditions for employees: responsible management of social and environmental issues within the Group: and the to abide by the laws applicable to each country of operation: international supply chain.
not to tolerate any kind of discrimination or harassment: SIG promotes human rights through its employment policies and to be a responsible partner within local communities: practices, through its supply chain and through the responsible use to take into account the legal and moral rights of others in of its products and services.
business transactions: There is no separate policy in place which deals specifically with to maintain a safe and healthy working environment: human rights: however, SIG will keep under review the need for a to be proactive in managing responsibilities to the environment: specific human rights policy over and above its existing policies.
not to knowingly make misrepresentations: not to make political donations: no bribes will be given or received: conflicts of interest must be avoided and in all cases must be reported: and employees are encouraged to report any suspected wrongdoing.
com Stock code: SHI 36 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy ENVIRONMENT SIG has a number of fundamental principles and values that it Environmental Management believes are the foundation of sound and fair business practice, one SIG operates an integrated Health, Safety and Environmental of which is a zero tolerance position on bribery and corruption.
The Board Director responsible Groups Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy clearly sets out the ethical for its implementation is the Chief Executive, who is the signatory values required to ensure compliance with legal requirements within on the Groups HS&E Policy which is displayed at each location countries in which SIG and its subsidiary companies operate.
throughout the Group in the local language.
Anti-bribery and corruption training is provided across the Group SIGs UK operations are certified by the international environment to all senior management through to branch managers and external standard ISO 14001.
An ongoing programme is in place for salespeople.
This training is provided via an online training resource, new businesses acquired in 2014 to gain certification in 2015. and since 2012 has also included modules on competition law.
The principles of this standard form the basis of the approach to environmental matters across the Group.
SIG values its reputation for ethical behaviour, financial probity and reliability.
It recognises that over and above the commission of any SIG uses the Environmental Aspects and Impacts Register and the crime, any involvement in bribery will also reflect adversely on its Corporate Environmental Risk Assessment to record and assess the image and reputation.
Its aim therefore is to limit its exposure to principal environmental hazards within the Group.
These evaluations bribery and corruption by: were part of the 2014 Management Review process for each business.
The Group has continued its excellent record of legal setting out a clear policy on anti-bribery and corruption: compliance and environmentally sound operations throughout 2014 training all employees so that they can recognise and avoid the with no prosecutions or actions from the relevant authorities.
use of bribery by themselves and others: The main focus of the Groups environmental objectives for 2015 encouraging employees to be vigilant and to report any suspicion relates to the aims of the business Low Carbon Policy to reduce fuel, of bribery, providing them with suitable channels of communication energy and water consumption and to reduce waste.
The progress and ensuring sensitive information is treated appropriately: that SIG has made in this area in 2014 is covered later in this report.
rigorously investigating instances of alleged bribery and assisting the police and other appropriate authorities in any resultant Carbon Management prosecution: and The Chief Executive remains the person responsible for the taking firm and vigorous action against any individual s involved Groups environmental performance and is the signatory for in bribery or corruption.
A copy of the Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy is available to view As a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of on the Companys website www.
Energy ACE with a clear set of objectives for carbon reduction, SIGs management of its carbon footprint has produced strong results.
A key driver to the programme was the achievement of the Carbon Trust Standard CTS in 2009, leading to the inclusion of SIG in the top 2% of the latest CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC league table, and an overall reduction to date in Scope 1 and 2 emissions of 14.1% since the base year of 2010.
Due to its significant achievements, SIG will retain the CTS until the end of 2015, having been recertified in 2014.
SIG also discloses its carbon footprint and emissions in this report and through the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
SIG no longer falls within the scope of CRC and therefore has not registered for Phase Two of the scheme.
Taking this into account, and the introduction of the Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme ESOS, SIG has partnered with Carbon Credentials Limited to work towards full compliance with the internationally recognised verification standard ISO14064-3.
In the first year, SIG has achieved limited verification and has a clear plan to work towards full verification for the 2014 15 Carbon Footprint.
Adoption of the standard will provide the Group with a renewed framework for its energy reduction programme.
Achievement of this standard will also support SIGs CDP rating.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 37 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report CONTINUED invited cyclists and other members of the public to sit in the vehicle to gain an understanding of the drivers field of vision.
This culminated in SIG providing the safety experience at the Tour fide France on its visit to Sheffield.
Continuing this work on safety with vulnerable road users in mind, SIG has designed a new Urban Delivery Vehicle with features designed to greatly enhance the drivers primary vision of critical areas of the vehicle and to reduce blind spots.
The vehicle was launched at the CLOCS progress event in February 2015 and is believed to be the first of its kind in our sector.
Through these key interventions there has been an 11% reduction in at-fault accidents in the UK against the base year of 2011, with a reduction in at-fault accident costs of 17% for the same period.
The time taken to report an accident has reduced from an average of 8.5 days in 2011 to an average of 1.5 days in 2014 and this has greatly contributed to the reduction in insurance costs.
TRANSPORT ROAD RISK POLICY More than 75% of the Groups total carbon footprint emissions come from road vehicle fuel consumption.
An absolute reduction SIG recognises that driving is among the most hazardous tasks in this Scope 1 emission has been a key target for SIG and there performed by its employees and that its vehicles and drivers has been a year-on-year reduction in each of the past four years, represent SIG and its values whilst they are on the road.
The Group culminating in an overall reduction of 12.8% in 2014 compared also recognises the potential impact that driving has on the local and to the base year of 2010.
This has been achieved largely through global environment.
Because of this SIG has worked hard to drive greater efficiency in journey planning and the replacement of older the Occupational Road Risk Policy across the Group, with strong vehicles with new and low emission vehicles fitted with energy local focus on key elements.
This process resulted in SIG being Highly Commended in the The absolute consumption of vehicle fuel will become increasingly Company Driver Safety Award section at the Brake Fleet Safety significant in view of SIGs growth plans.
The key thrust of the Low Awards in 2014.
Carbon Fleet programme in 2015 will again be to target improved efficiency of road vehicles and more efficient driving behaviours Occupational Road Risk is a key element of the accident review designed to achieve improved kilometre per litre ratios.
process across the Group, with Accident Review Panels ARPs meeting regularly throughout the year in each country.
In the UK The Group continues to roll out training for drivers.
SIG Polands this is carried out in partnership with the Groups insurers and safety and EKO efficiency training for commercial vehicle drivers brokers.
The purpose of the ARPs is to reduce the risk of accidents in 2014 is being followed up with training for the business 140 and minimise the cost to the business.
This is achieved by: raising car drivers to be delivered in the first quarter of 2015.
The Driver awareness across the Group of the outcomes of accidents: targeting Certificate of Professional Competence CPC training programme improvements in the speed of reporting: improving the quality of in the UK and Ireland will be replicated across the Mainland investigations to identify the causes of specific accidents or trends: European businesses in accordance with EU legislation.
and recommending action and further training where appropriate.
The Group maintains its policy to purchase commercial vehicles The Fleet Operator Recognition Scheme FORS is an overto the latest Euro standard, and low emission vehicles to facilitate arching scheme that encompasses all aspects of safety, fuel efficiency, deliveries into Low Emission Zones across Europe.
economical operations and vehicle emissions.
FORS is a voluntary scheme for commercial vehicle operators, which is designed to help In 2014, SIG installed telematics equipment in all commercial improve operators performance in each of these areas.
SIG has vehicles in the UK and Ireland.
This programme will be fully adopted the scheme across its UK businesses.
In 2014, its first year operational in France, Germany and Poland by the end of 2015 as under FORS, SIG was awarded Silver status nationwide for all sites it continues to be extended across the Group.
Telematics helps SIG operating commercial vehicles.
to accurately measure mileage and improve the efficiency of vehicle routing and fuel consumption.
Work continued in 2014 to minimise the risk to vulnerable road users such as cyclists and pedestrians.
SIG are active champions of the Construction Logistics Cyclist Safety CLOCS group.
SIG also initiated an Exchanging Places campaign in which a commercial vehicle and staff exhibited at various cycle events and www.
com Stock code: SHI 38 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 GHG disclosures.
These include Scope 1 CO emissions, for which 2 businesses are directly responsible, and Scope 2 CO emissions, 2 which are indirect emissions from the generation of electricity.
SIG has also disclosed Scope 3 CO emissions over which the business 2 has limited control, being third-party air and rail transportation, which fall outside of the scope of the GHG Protocol.
In collecting this data, SIG has used a period non-coterminous with the Groups financial year, with current year data reflecting the year to 30 September 2014.
This is because much of the data is captured via utilities bills, which tend to be quarterly.
A September period end for carbon reporting therefore allows for actual data to be used as opposed to estimates: in 2014, 79.5% of calculations are based on actual data.
Estimates are prepared on the basis of applying equivalent emission rates to the remainder of the Groups footprint.
Jed Hazelden receives Driver of the Year award for the second year running.
Pictured above with Scott Gerry, UK Logistics Director and Philip Johns, Managing The comparatives prior to 2013 are also twelve month periods, Director SIG UK Exteriors.
but are based on calendar years.
However the method of collecting data on CO emissions has not changed year-on-year: therefore 2 the prior year numbers have been included within this report as the For the fourth year running, SIG held its Driver of the Year Group feels that they provide meaningful comparison.
The method competition recognising the best drivers from the UK branches.
of collection for each component of CO emissions has been 2 The competition set driving tasks that allowed the competitors to disclosed in the footnotes to each table.
prove their skills, including fuel efficiency, wet handling, wet braking In 2014 the processes and procedures used in the UK have been and vehicle defect checks.
Qualification to enter the final was based audited and assessed by the Carbon Trust, resulting in recertification on a years worth of safe and efficient driving practice and other to the Carbon Standard.
Following a full internal audit of the safety-related data.
The winner for the second year running was Jed processes in the first quarter of 2014, in accordance with the Hazelden of SIG Roofing in Huddersfield.
Groups policy of continuous improvement, further opportunities for improvement in the quality of recorded data were identified.
ENERGY Emissions from electricity consumption account for 14.8% of the As a result, the Groups carbon footprint for the year ended 30 Groups Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Through energy audits carried September 2014 has been externally audited to ISO14064-3 out in partnership with the Carbon Trust and raising employee at a level of limited assurance.
This process has highlighted the awareness with the Switch Off campaign the Group has achieved continuous improvement in systems and procedures related to an absolute reduction of 4.8% in 2014. carbon management and reporting along with identifying areas where further improvements can be made.
The programme for capital projects, which commenced in 2012, has continued with a capital investment of almost 700,000 The ESOS is the UK Governments proposed approach to providing annual savings of more than one million kWh of electricity, implementing Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive 650 tonnes of CO emissions and with a payback period of less than 2012 27 EU.
SIG has put in place plans to ensure compliance 2 four years.
The principal savings have been achieved by replacing by the due date in December 2015. inefficient lighting with low energy systems fitted with both daylight The Group achieved an absolute reduction of 4.9% in Scope 1 and and movement sensors, installing energy efficient hand dryers and 2 emissions combined year-on-year, with an overall reduction of replacing tea kettles with water heaters.
In 2014 SIG trialled heat 14.1% compared to the base year 2010. recovery systems providing domestic hot water at a Southampton site, whilst a heating control system is also being trialled at SIGs The overall footprint of the business for Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions GRM workshop in Manchester.
improved with a reduction of 4.8% year-on-year.
The figures represent an overall reduction of 0.9% in emissions per m of GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS revenue in 2014 compared to 2013 as a result of the measures SIG reports on all of the emission sources required under the Large taken to reduce road vehicle fuel and energy consumption.
and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013.
The Group has used the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition data, gathered to fulfil the requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 to calculate the Groups SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 39 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report CONTINUED GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS CONTINUED CO emissions Scope 1 Direct 2 Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes 2014 2013 2012 1 Road vehicle fuel emissions 65,686 68,560 72,223 2 Plant vehicle fuel emissions 4,993 4,934 5,369 3 Natural gas 2,452 3,372 2,999 4 Coal coke for heating 55 52 70 Heating Fuels Kerosene & 5 LPG 832 1,313 943 Total 74,018 78,231 81,604 Data source and collection methods 1.
Fuel cards and direct purchase records in litres converted according to Defra guidelines.
Direct purchase records in litres converted according to Defra guidelines.
The Group uses an estimated 99% of its water consumption 3.
Consumption in kWh converted according to Defra guidelines.
for welfare purposes, with very little being used for commercial 4.
Purchases in tonnes converted according to Defra guidelines.
However SIG recognises that potable water is a precious 5.
Purchases in litres converted according to Defra guidelines.
resource and continues to maintain water recycling and reuse for the processes in Southport UK and Alizay France.
CO emissions Scope 2 Indirect 2 In partnership with Waterscan in the UK, SIG has identified Metric Metric Metric significant opportunities for water consumption efficiencies including: tonnes tonnes tonnes 2014 2013 2012 improved automatic cistern controls: identification and repair of leaks: and improved billing processes.
Many of these opportunities 1 Electricity 12,870 13,142 14,346 have already been acted upon.
The number of Group companies reporting their water consumption continues to improve with only Data source and collection methods three ATC businesses not submitting data.
CO emissions Scope 3 Other indirect Litres Litres Litres 2 000 000 000 Metric Metric Metric 2014 2013 2012 tonnes tonnes tonnes 2014 2013 2012 Third party provided water supply from national network Third-party provided transport 1 for processes and welfare 106,546 107,604 108,201 air and rail 405 308 349 The above data is based on a combination of actual and estimated Data source and collection methods data.
Distance travelled converted according to Defra guidelines.
Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes Emission per m of revenue 2014 2013 2012 Scope 1 28.0 28.8 31.2 Scope 2 4.9 4.8 5.5 Scopes 1 & 2 as required by GHG Protocol 32.9 33.6 36.7 Scope 3 0.2 0.1 0.2 Scopes 1, 2 & 3 33.1 33.7 36.9 The data relating to CO emissions has been collected from all 2 of the Groups material operations and is based on a combination of actual and estimated results where actual data is not available.
The data excludes the impact of businesses divested during 2014. www.
com Stock code: SHI 40 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 WASTE MANAGEMENT Diverting waste from landfill remains a key target for SIG.
Recycling and reduction systems in place include: paperless delivery processes: online activity reports: waste segregation bins and balers where appropriate: dedicated facilities for plasterboard and plaster products, uPVC windows, fibre ceiling tiles and vinyl floor covering material: use of second-hand packaging, the re-use of opened packaging Carpet & Flooring, part of SIG UK, picked up several commendations at the annual Recofloor Awards held in March 2014. and the operation of returns schemes for items like pallets The awards are held each year to recognise the companies that have contributed and bearers: the most to the Recofloor scheme a recycling initiative founded and funded by flooring manufacturers Altro and Polyflor that works with the flooring supply chain compliance with Producer Responsibility Obligations PRO to recycle vinyl flooring products and divert waste from landfill.
under the waste management legislation and packaging Two of Carpet & Floorings regional centres picked up honours at the event.
waste regulations: Carpet & Flooring Manchester took home the Greatest Improver accolade and received a Gold certificate for the number of recycling collections made under partnership with suppliers and manufacturers to support the scheme, while Carpet & Flooring Camberley was Highly Commended in the PRO compliance: Distributor of the Year category.
Camberley was also awarded a Silver certificate in honour of the number of collections made.
member of Valpak compliance scheme: HS&E inspections include waste management: and customer waste recycling schemes.
Non-hazardous waste Given the inherently difficult nature of measuring waste, SIG Absolute Absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes tonnes ensures wherever possible that the data is accurate by working with 2014 2013 2012 its waste management recycling providers in order to provide its Landfill 5,626 4,283 8,743 best estimates.
In 2014 there was a change in waste management Incinerated 12 12 provider and data collection methods in the UK.
The new provider Total 5,638 4,295 8,743 estimates that 55% of SIG waste was diverted from landfill in 2014, while the previous provider estimated 79% in 2013.
Other waste diverted from landfill SIG continues to strive to reduce waste which is sent to landfill with Absolute Absolute Absolute the expansion of the waste segregation and compacting process to tonnes tonnes tonnes LiTT of SIG France.
A trial at three LiTT branches in 2014 provided 2014 2013 2012 a 40% cost saving and the facility will be rolled out to the rest of WEEE Waste, Electrical and the business in 2015.
In addition following the rebranding of SIG Electronic Equipment 8 5 3 Polands vehicles, the resultant waste livery has been provided to Glass 3 3 3 a tarpaulin recycling company to be turned into accessories such Wood 904 1,324 2,058 as handbags, backpacks and wallets.
Carpet & Flooring also won Metal 1,098 977 1,234 awards at the annual Recofloor scheme which celebrates businesses Plasterboard 2,502 1,258 390 ability to divert waste from landfill.
Paper cardboard 588 1,024 1,165 Plastic 383 440 762 Hazardous waste Other 6,573 10,860 8,250 Absolute Absolute Absolute Total 12,059 15,891 13,865 tonnes tonnes tonnes 2014 2013 2012 Absolute Absolute Absolute Landfill 60 13 21 tonnes tonnes tonnes Recycled 41 139 279 2014 2013 2012 Incinerated 65 72 Non-hazardous and other Total 101 217 372 waste per m of revenue 6.7 7.4 8.7 Volume per annum converted to tonnes.
Absolute Absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes tonnes The above data is based on a combination of actual and estimated 2014 2013 2012 data.
Hazardous waste per m of revenue 0.04 0.08 0.14 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 41 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report CONTINUED Manufacturing sites make up less than 5% of the Groups HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT businesses: however, SIG recognises the potential for serious harm In recent years, the Groups Focus on Accidents programme and a Health and Safety Manager for Manufacturing was recruited has proved to be a great success in driving accountability of line in 2014 to develop a set of business specific arrangements and management for health and safety performance across the Group.
harmonise the Risk Assessment and Safe Operating Procedures.
In 2014 the next phase of this programme, branded Zero In 2014 there was a significant shift in the ownership of the Health Harm, was endorsed by the Group Board and the Executive and Safety agenda from the HS&E Team to the Managing Directors Committee.
This was launched by the Chief Executive, the Board of operating companies across the Group.
This was evidenced member responsible for health and safety, at the Senior Leadership by the Managing Directors leading discussions at the operating Conference in February.
company Board Meetings, the demand for additional reports and dashboards for Senior Management meetings, the integration of the Zero Harm programme into the businesses remuneration schemes, the inclusion of health and safety related objectives into the Performance Development Review programme, and the The rebranding of the programme provided new vigour and a incorporation of this theme into the roadshows and conferences positive message to reflect the refreshed corporate image of the held across the Group.
business in line with the Groups Stronger Together vision.
The key message from the Chief Executive was that the aim of the programme is for the health, safety and wellbeing of employees and others to be the primary consideration for management at all levels in the development, growth and day-to-day operation of the business, products and services.
This aspiration is to be achieved by building on the success of the New Focus programme which moves away from a compliance based programme and drives a renewed ownership of the health In May 2014, for the fourth consecutive year, SIG UK received the and safety agenda into line management.
The initial thrust of this Silver RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety award.
This award high profile programme in the first quarter of the year was a global recognises SIGs ongoing commitment to raising the standards for communication exercise to cascade the aims and objectives of the health and safety management.
programme throughout each Group business.
These key messages were delivered by the Chief Executive and line management The accident statistics indicate that for SIG as a Group significant supported by the Groups dedicated HS&E personnel.
improvements have been made in both major accidents and lost time accidents, both over three day accidents and RIDDOR or A major retraining programme commenced to coincide with the equivalent.
There was an increase in the UK and Irelands over launch of the RoSPA accredited SIG Certificate in Health, Safety three day accident incident rate due to an unusually high number of and Environmental Management delivered by the internal training incidents which occurred in December.
provider, with senior management across the Group attending refresher courses in the IOSH Directing Safely and Managing Safely or equivalent.
The Groups health and safety management system is modelled on the International Health and Safety Standard BS-OHSAS 18001:2007 to which the SIG UK businesses are certified and externally audited by Intertek.
The programme is managed and supported by the Group HS&E Manager and a team of directly employed HS&E professionals in each part of the Group.
Employing dedicated HS&E professionals enables the implementation of a robust Risk Assessment and Management Review process through which the key health and safety risks have been identified.
The key target areas for the Groups Health and Safety Plan in 2015 are: occupational road risk: traffic management: loading and unloading: and storage operations.
com Stock code: SHI 42 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 COMMUNITY SIG recognises the ethical obligation it holds to the communities in which it operates, both as a local employer and as a FTSE 250 company.
To help support the Groups contribution to the UK communities in which it operates, SIG is a member of Business in the Community BiTC.
The Group has worked with BiTC for a number of years to help develop its approach and practices.
This is mainly achieved through charitable donations and other initiatives that help the community.
In the UK, SIG is currently partnering with Fir Vale School in Sheffield The Safety Walks programme was launched at the start of 2014.
This requires senior on a number of initiatives.
Fir Vale School provides around 1,050 management to carry out health and safety inspections of branches using a checklist and guidance booklet.
This has been a resounding success, resulting in engagement places for students up to GCSE level and is full and oversubscribed.
between senior managers, branch management and the workforce.
This programme The majority of students are BME Black and Minority Ethnic with will be continued in 2015 with a revised inspection guide to target key areas: traffic a more recent intake of Eastern European background students.
management: loading and unloading: and storage operations.
The school serves a deprived socio-economic community with 37% of students qualifying for free school meals.
ACCIDENTS AND INCIDENTS During the course of 2014, SIG undertook four initiatives with the UK & Ireland school covering the following areas: Rate per 1,000 employees Student Leadership: The partnership objective was to equip the 25 student leaders with the tools and techniques to handle 2014 2013 2012 difficult conversations and handle conflict during their roles as Major injury 2.8 3.6 2.7 prefects in the school.
SIG hosted a fun workshop in July 2014 Injury resulting in over three on assertive techniques, leadership skills and self-awareness for absence days from work 12.0 11.2 11.2 this group: All RIDDORs 11.4 13.4 14.1 Enterprise and Employability: During September 2014 Average UK & Ireland SIG co-facilitated day-long sessions with Year 11 students to headcount 4,984 5,070 5,261 help them prepare their CVs and hone their interviewing skills.
Lost work day rate number of These practical workshops five in total covering over 100 work days per 100 employees 35.8 23.3 29.6 students helped to prepare the students for their work place interviews later in 2014 and for applying to Sixth Form colleges Group during the early part of 2015: Rate per 1,000 employees Business Management: SIG co-facilitated a half-day 2014 2013 2012 programme at the school to assist Business Studies students in finding out how companies motivate their employees.
Major injury 2.2 2.8 2.2 The session was informal and interactive, with students invited Injury resulting in over three to ask questions.
Over 50 students attended: and absence days from work 15.0 16.7 17.1 All RIDDORs Equivalent 13.3 16.5 17.9 Work Placements: During December 2014, SIG conducted interviews for students who would attend our initial work Average Group headcount 9,454 9,806 10,228 placement programme in February 2015.
The comprehensive This includes accidents in non-UK businesses that would meet the criteria for programme includes working in different departments, partnering reporting in the UK under RIDDOR.
with a mentor who has been specifically trained for this role, an introduction to health and safety, branch visits and face-to-face QUALITY ASSURANCE meetings with members of SIG senior management.
The Groups management systems are maintained to a high SIGs relationship with BiTC will standard through management review and internal auditing.
A continue to grow and evolve in supplier audit programme is in place to identify opportunities for 2015, and various options for continuous improvement.
The programme is conducted by way of a supporting the charity are being questionnaire and includes questions regarding the health, safety and discussed, ranging from how our IT environmental credentials of the supplier.
Where it is commercially teams can work with ICT students advantageous, the quality management systems are externally to SIG employees assisting students certificated to ISO 9001, with Sitaco Poland and certificated with college applications.
branches in the UK achieving recertification in 2014.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 43 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report CONTINUED CHARITABLE DONATIONS During 2014, the Group made total charitable donations of 111,000 2013: 109,000.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no donations were made in the year 2013: nil.
SIG supports charities and community projects that enhance the Groups engagement in the communities in which it operates, assist in managing the sustainability of the local environment and help to SIG is proud to support the outstanding efforts of our employees, such as SIGs Roofing Racers, who tackled a 750-metre swim in the River Thames, a cycle race educate young people and aid disadvantaged groups.
of 20 kilometres and a five kilometre sprint in the Virgin Active London Triathlon.
The team raised over 35,000 to help both Macmillan Cancer Support and Great SIG employees take part in a wide range of activities which support Ormond Street Hospital charities.
our work in the community.
This includes, but is not limited to, Another brave team of SIG colleagues blazed a trail in an event organised by participation in various sporting events, fundraising in branches and local Cyclists Fighting Cancer.
One month before the Grand Dpart of the 2014 Tour fide France, the team participated in the tape fide Yorkshire, a 120-mile event communities, and making donations through a payroll giving scheme.
following the route of the first stage of Le Tour 2014 starting in Leeds and finishing in Harrogate.
Most of SIGs charitable giving is led by employees who organise sponsored campaigns through their operating companies, or apply for matching funds to boost fundraising totals generated by The Group also made a donation of 2,500 to support the Rowley independent activities.
SIGs Matched Funding Scheme matches up Project in purchasing computers to help disadvantaged students to 500 or equivalent of donations raised by employees for their in Kenya.
SIG employees have led a wide range of activities and events to raise funds for the charities of their choice in 2014.
At a corporate level, SIG connected the 2014 Employee These include garage sales in Poland as well as sponsored bake sales, Engagement Survey with a pledge to donate either 1 or 1 to the cycle rides and mountain treks across the UK and mainland Europe.
British Red Cross and UNICEF for each response.
An exceptional response rate of 81% completed questionnaires was received and In The Netherlands, the Kippenrenners ran from Paris to Rotterdam SIG donated 7,000 to the charities.
and raised more than 15,000 for the Roparun hospice charity.
OUR PEOPLE Improving the performance, engagement and well-being of all our people is one of the key strategic areas of focus across SIG.
Significant investment has been made in strengthening the SIG Human Resources team as the drivers of the Groups new People Strategy, which is seen as a core differentiator for SIG.
With the focus on attracting, retaining, developing and deploying the best people from within and beyond our industry, the SIG People Strategy provides the platform for ensuring that our people are able to deliver success today, tomorrow and into the future.
com Stock code: SHI 44 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 SIG VALUES The new Group Values - Trust, Respect, Teamwork, Integrity, Commitment and Fun - were developed by our employees and they set out what it means to be a part of the Stronger Together SIG team.
These values guide the behaviours of all our people from Chief Executive to frontline employees.
The Groups values guide not only how we serve our customers, but also how we work with all our partners and, very importantly, each other.
Embedding the Group Values as the key stone of our People Strategy and the SIG spirit will ensure the entire SIG team, working towards our vision of being Stronger Together, always delivers on our promises, whether it be those made to our Shareholders, our customers, our suppliers, our people, or to the communities we work within.
ENGAGED EMPLOYEES In March 2014, SIG launched its first Group-wide Employee Engagement initiative SIG Listens.
As the first engagement survey involving all employees, SIG Listens allowed feedback and suggestions to be given anonymously and confidentially.
With an excellent 81% of the SIG team responding to the survey, SIG Listens provided a valuable insight into the thoughts and Stronger Together whiteboards engage employees in team communications, perceptions of employees.
Based on a measure of what do our planning and values.
people say about SIG, are people committed to staying in SIG and do our people strive to go the extra mile, we achieved an The survey also highlighted areas where greater effort is required.
engagement score of 74%, which is equal to our industry benchmark.
These insights have resulted in action across three key areas: More specifically, the survey results demonstrated that our people: Communication: Through greater focus on internal communications channels, the aim is to improve how SIG helps are clear about what is expected of them and how this all our people feel more informed about what is happening in contributes to SIGs collective success 88% positive : their part of the business and how they can further contribute to are clear about the behaviours expected within SIG 86% the wider success of the Group: positive : Recognition: Through improving the capability of managers to would recommend SIGs products and services 86% positive : give regular and constructive feedback and through implementing and recognition schemes SIG is focused on helping all our people are committed to working beyond what is required in their job feel as though their contribution to the success of the Group is to ensure promises are fulfilled 83% positive.
recognised, rewarded and celebrated: and Development: Through investment in the capability of managers to support the development of our people, and through enhancement of training and development resources, initiatives are being implemented to ensure that every employee feels that SIG is a great place to work, where they can develop and grow in their careers.
The 2015 SIG Listens survey will take place in September, giving a progress update on the initiatives that have been implemented.
SIG is in the middle of major change, so it is expected that some results may be adversely affected: however the Company is committed to using SIG Listens as a key mechanism to understand the perceptions and engagement levels of our people.
This will help guide the People Strategy to ensure all members of the SIG team are inspired to go the extra mile as they contribute to SIGs success today, tomorrow and beyond.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 45 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report CONTINUED DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE The development of our people is core to the SIG strategy.
The skills and expertise of employees is one of SIGs key differentiators in the market place.
Through embedding a virtuous cycle of growing our people to grow our business, SIG is committed to providing development and career opportunities to every member of the team.
The Performance Development Review PDR process, launched in 2013, helps to ensure that all managers and employees know what is expected of them in their roles and that performance is measured and managed throughout the business.
The PDR process also provides an important opportunity for employees to discuss their career aspirations and development with their manager, ensuring that development plans are turned into development action throughout the year.
In 2015 SIG has committed that 100% of employees will have a PDR discussion with their manager.
In support of the development of our people, the partnership with Sheffield Hallam University in the UK has continued giving leaders the opportunity to develop their management skills and capability, whilst also gaining an academic accreditation, either at advanced Diploma or Bachelor Degree level.
Partnerships have also been EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATIONS formed with global leaders in learning solutions, providing SIG with Keeping our employees informed is a priority for SIG.
SIG aims to access to state-of-the-art learning management technology and ensure all of its employees understand the business strategy and on-line training materials.
As a part of the Group-wide Training and how it will be delivered in order to achieve the Groups vision.
TwoDevelopment Strategy, this will ensure that all employees across way people engagement, underpinned by regular communication to SIG have better access to training, helping them to continue being keep employees informed, is actively encouraged.
Current channels successful in their role and growing in their career.
include senior leader news cascades via email, face-to-face briefings, In partnership with product suppliers, a new approach to product intranet updates and articles, employee newsletters, general training for SIG employees is also being implemented.
Helping the business news cascades and web broadcasts.
SIG is continually Group to be Stronger Together with suppliers, enhanced product reviewing and improving the ways in which it communicates and will training will raise our peoples awareness of the full offerings of SIG, continue to evaluate the effectiveness of employee communications.
enabling greater up-selling and cross-selling opportunities.
A key tool used by SIG is the SIG Listens Employee Engagement Throughout 2015, the focus on developing our people is at the survey, which was introduced across the Group in 2014.
As a result forefront of the People Strategy.
This will include developing the of the Survey, SIG has established focus groups to help prioritise English language capability of SIGs non-native English speaking and plan actions for improvement, both at Group and local level.
senior leaders, enhancing leadership and management development This ensures continuous improvement in line with employee programmes, establishing Group-wide job families with clear career feedback and helps to drive two-way communications across SIG.
paths, and leveraging existing programmes like Expert Workforce.
The Performance Review process is also a great way to encourage Growing our people to grow our business is central to the success two-way discussion, both in terms of managers giving feedback on of SIG and is the responsibility of every manager.
employees individual performance, but also in terms of employees discussing their career aspirations and goals with their managers.
Development plans are created as a result of this, individually tailored to each individuals needs.
All of our Senior Leaders participate in our Finance for nonFinancial Managers course, which helps them to understand more about SIGs commercial position, economic dependencies and financial performance.
We are constantly working on improving our communication in SIG and work closely with teams in IT and HR to develop new communication channels and use technology more effectively as we grow and develop our business.
com Stock code: SHI 46 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 The newly created project for 2015 Trade Meets Craftsmanship will round off the apprentices profile.
The apprentices will spend at least four weeks of their training period at a construction site as a standard part of the programme.
This provides experience and learning in all aspects of SIGs value-added chain in combination with the apprentice forums, vocational training and practical on-site training at customer premises.
In addition, the apprentices will get to know SIGs products as well as the perspectives and methods of industrial partners and customers.
Launched back in September 2012, the UK Apprenticeship programme continues to help SIG to attract, develop and retain talented individuals to the organisation, as well as supporting people GROWING OUR TALENT looking to gain qualifications and work experience across our business.
Growing and nurturing a pipeline of talent is critical to the future success of SIG.
Throughout 2014, SIG has remained committed to 2014 saw the continuation of the UK Apprenticeship Development recruiting and developing early career individuals from apprentices Programme, which brings the apprentices together to develop their through to university graduates across the business.
key skills and business understanding.
The programme continues to run throughout the SIG UK business and has grown in number In both Germany and the UK the Apprentice Trainee programmes from 16 in 2013 to 25 apprentices in 2014 who are now employed have attracted high calibre individuals to the organisation.
in various roles across Head Office and the branch network.
As the programme evolves further in 2015, with the development of In Germany, the Apprenticeship scheme continues to grow from content and additional positions, the aim is for the apprenticeship strength to strength, with the development of an eLearning module talent pipeline to also support diversity in terms of gender and for the apprentices in 2014 focusing on workplace safety training.
generation mix within the business, a key element of the Talent All the apprentices who started their apprenticeship in August 2014 Strategy for 2015 and beyond.
received this training and, in addition, they were given advanced training at the apprentice kick-off in October.
The first trainer SIG continues to be a Gold Sponsor of Enactus, the community conference for Apprenticeship Supervisors was launched in January of student, academic and business leaders developing outreach 2014, with the key concepts of apprenticeships being a strategic projects to improve the quality of life and standard of living of people decision, meaning investment in the future, and the need to across the globe.
In 2014, SIG was again involved in the judging constantly question and to change.
The trainers were given the process for the Enactus National competition, as well as attending chance to network for the first time, and were able to participate a number of training events for the Enactus students and taking part actively in the organisation of the training programme within in their careers fairs.
This year SIG will continue to build on this the scope of diverse workshops.
In the combination of keynote relationship and will be expanding its business advisor group.
speeches, workshops and idea exchange sessions, the focus was on SIGs apprenticeship initiative.
Time was spent explaining the Group vision and mission, innovation and change, the role of the apprenticeship representative and the expectations of function.
The representative conference is a further element of the SIG apprenticeship scheme which increases apprenticeship quality and attractiveness.
It is considered essential to identify young talent, and to retain and develop them for our future business.
In 2015, 25 new apprentices will start in SIG Germany, throughout WeGo and VTI, achieving the 5% headcount objective in apprenticeships for Germany which was set back in 2012 when the apprenticeship headcount was only 2.75%.
The recruitment process for this year is initiated in January and continues through mid to late March: the apprentices will then start their apprenticeship in August.
2015 will also see the 9th Apprentice Forum with SIGs industrial partner Isover Saint Gobain being held.
The event addresses the apprentices of all three apprenticeship years at WeGo.
This event enables the apprentices to exchange ideas with their fellow apprentices, as well as to network with our industrial partner.
The focus this year is on the topic of insulation materials, whereby the apprentices can develop and expand their knowledge through technical presentations, a factory tour and a practical element.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 47 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility Report CONTINUED GROWING OUR TALENT CONTINUED The development of a career ambassadors group within SIG will link these career ambassadors and advisors with local universities to support their project development and also attend key Enactus events.
In addition, as members of the Association of Graduate Recruiters AGR, SIG has developed this relationship further in 2014, with the sharing of best practice ideas across the AGR members, and with the commitment to attend more of the AGR events in 2015.
One such event in 2015 is the AGR Development Conference in March, where SIGs Group Talent & Development Director will be a key presenter.
The Group has continued to support the investment and focus on the recruitment of graduates in order to generate the talent pipeline of future managers within the business.
SIGs current graduates have SIG graduates benefit from extensive training, including challenging development a diverse mix of experience, with a number from commercial and activities, as above.
business orientated backgrounds, enabling them to understand the customer base and projects in more depth.
Graduates are recruited for specific functional areas such as Finance and Sales: however, SIG In 2015 a new Global Leadership Graduate Programme will be also runs country and international programmes, providing graduates launched in addition to the existing talent pipeline programmes.
As with insight and exposure across SIGs Mainland European businesses.
our first Group-wide talent programme, this will specifically focus on attracting, developing and deploying high-calibre graduates who are capable of developing into the future leaders of SIG.
The graduates will perform a variety of rotational roles across the business over the two year programme, before moving into a management role.
The new programme has key criteria such as a second language against which the graduate will be selected onto the programme, raising the capability and also supporting the international nature of the programme right from the start.
During the two year programme, graduates will undertake four rotations and attend five extensive development modules, each focusing on different leadership attributes in more detail, such as understanding themselves and understanding the business.
The programme has been re-designed to develop much more cultural awareness, commercial acumen, personal impact and project management skills, in order to help the graduates significantly increase their international effectiveness and value to SIG in the long-term.
TALENT REVIEW Focusing initially on the Senior Leader level, a Talent and Succession Review will be conducted in early 2015 and subsequently rolledout across the business.
This Review will assess the leadership and succession bench strength across the Group, whilst also helping with the identification of high-potential individuals.
From the Review, development programmes will be implemented to accelerate the development of individuals and help improve global mobility.
This will further strengthen leadership capability, while also giving individuals the opportunity to grow through SIG.
Through growing and nurturing the talent pipeline, the Group will ensure that it continues to develop the skills and capabilities required for the future.
com Stock code: SHI 48 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 RECOGNISING OUTSTANDING EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES PERFORMANCE SIGs policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing and prospective employees.
The Group recognises that its reputation SIG remains committed to recognising excellent performance and is dependent upon fair and equitable treatment of all its employees celebrating the success of employees.
As part of the SIG recognition and prohibits discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, framework, the annual awards have been revised to recognise and gender, disability, sexual orientation, age, nationality or ethnic origin.
celebrate employees for financial performance and also for ideas, Employment opportunities are equally available to all.
actions and behaviours that help SIG live its values.
The Group values diversity of thinking and sees this as critical going Award categories are directly linked to the SIG values and give forward in generating new ideas and innovative solutions for our award opportunities to employees at all levels of the business.
Employment opportunities are available to disabled Shortlisted nominees attend an award dinner at the Senior persons in accordance with their abilities and aptitudes on equal Leadership Conference, giving a unique recognition and celebration terms with other employees.
If an employee becomes disabled opportunity.
In addition, the Chief Executives Award for Excellence during employment, the Group makes every effort to enable recognises one outstanding individual who embodies the SIG values, them to continue in employment by making reasonable adjustments has shown consistently excellent personal performance and had a in the workplace and providing retraining for alternative work transformational effect on their business or function.
SIGs operating companies locally run reward and recognition schemes which are appropriate to the particular aims of businesses GENDER DIVERSITY in different countries.
These focus on rewarding the desired At 31 December 2014, across the total workforce 1,880 21% of behaviours and business outcomes, whilst at the same time being all employees are female.
One Board member 14% and seven aligned to the Stronger Together ethos.
SIG continues to work towards improving its workforce diversity and this will be an ongoing area of focus in 2015.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS SIG aims to attract and retain the best talent with a fair and consistent approach to both fixed and variable pay, which is regularly benchmarked both externally and internally.
Reward and benefits play a key role in supporting employee engagement and performance.
Bonus schemes are designed to reward exceptional performance, and operate to an aligned framework across the Senior Leadership population.
Bonus awards are also made in the local operating businesses aligned to local performance results, which is key in driving and rewarding performance at operating company level.
Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company.
The Share Incentive Plan SIP was introduced in 2005 and gives one matching share for each share purchased by the employee up to a maximum of 20 per month.
As at 31 December 2014 there were 844 employees participating in the SIP.
SIG is constantly reviewing the employee offering, with the aim of providing choice and an appropriate level of benefits, and this will be a key area of focus for our Reward Team in 2015.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 49 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT IN THIS SECTION The Directors Report, comprising: 52 Board of Directors 54 Introduction to Governance 55 Corporate Governance 66 Audit Committee Report 70 Nominations Committee Report 72 Directors Remuneration Report 89 Directors Responsibility Statement 50 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 2 GOVERNANCE STRONGER TOGETHER 51 23628.02 9 April 2015 12:21 AM Proof 1
