Strategic report Corporate responsibility All our businesses share a common set of principles.
These principles ensure that people, the environment and our communities are at the heart of how we operate.
40 Protocol and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
CORPORATE We engaged KPMG LLP to provide limited assurance on our greenhouse gas performance data as described in RESPONSIBILITY the table opposite.
KPMG LLP used the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3410: Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements to assure the selected greenhouse gas performance data and issued an unqualified opinion.
Their full assurance opinion is available at www.
co. uk responsibility assurance our-approach 2014-updates.
All our businesses share a common Our greenhouse gas emissions In order to form their opinion, KPMG LLP set of principles: we strive to ensure This year, for the first time, we report performed a range of procedures which that our environmental impact and on the total greenhouse gas emissions included interviews with management, use of resources are minimised: we from those activities for which we are examination of reporting processes and seek to provide a safe place of work directly responsible, which includes the documentation, and testing of selected for all of our people: we want to be operational and agricultural impacts of data from various sites, businesses and welcomed as good neighbours by the our businesses for the 12-month reporting at group level.
A summary of the work communities in which we operate: period.
This also includes greenhouse they performed is included within their and we take seriously the need to gas emissions for entities where we do assurance opinion.
consider the health of our customers, not have full ownership but have financial Non-financial performance information, our staff and the communities of control, joint ventures and associates and greenhouse gas quantification in which we are part.
These principles where we do not have a majority particular, is inherently more subjective are underpinned by the Companys shareholding but do have either joint than financial information.
It is important overriding tenet of: Encouraging control or significant influence.
to read the selected environmental Ethical Business.
Our total greenhouse gas emissions performance data contained within this These principles ensure that people, the amounted to 9,656,000 tonnes of carbon report in the context of KPMG LLPs environment and our communities are at dioxide equivalent CO2e of which 73% full limited assurance opinion and the heart of how we operate.
We express is contributed by our sugar businesses.
our reporting definitions available this commitment to Corporate This is due to the extensive use of energy at www.
co. uk responsibility Responsibility CR in four areas: in our processing of sugar and transport our policies and appendices.
use, as well as the generation of responsible stewardship of Fatal injuries emissions from its agricultural activities.
our environment: Our first priority is to keep our people safe Of the 7,025,000 tonnes of emissions at work making sure that they return being responsible for our people: that AB Sugar produces, two-thirds home as fit and well as they were when comes from the combustion of renewable being a responsible neighbour: and they came to work.
We regret very deeply sugar cane biomass which is generally the six work-related fatalities of being responsible for promoting regarded as carbon neutral.
employees and contractors during the good health.
We developed detailed reporting guidance reporting year.
In Africa, four employees Further information can be found in the including estimation methodologies, were killed: one was crushed when the Associated British Foods CR Update 2014 assumptions and calculation cane seed vehicle he was driving came and 2013 CR Report at www.
co. uk methodologies, which are aligned with off the road: another died while preparing responsibility.
ISO 14064 1, the Greenhouse Gas for cane harvest: a third died in a shallow Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility excavation: and a fourth was killed when 41 entangled in moving machinery above Associated British Foods total greenhouse gas emissions in 2014 head height.
A security contractor died in For the year ended 31 July 2014 we emitted, in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent Africa having been the victim of violent CO2e the following greenhouse gases: criminal assault by an unconnected third Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 8,642,000 tonnes party.
In China, a contractor driver died Purchased electricity and steam 1,014,000 tonnes after falling off the vehicle he was loading.
Total emissions 9,656,000 tonnes Emission intensity 746 tonnes per 1m of revenue We recognise that many of our businesses operate in high hazard Our greenhouse gas emissions can be further analysed by source of emission which environments, such as with heavy helps us to make our operations ever more energy efficient: machinery, large transport and freight vehicles, confined spaces and working Tonnes % of total Source of emissions at height.
Whenever there is a death or Use of energy within our factories and stores 7,918,000 82% near miss on our sites or linked to our Operation of our owned and contracted vehicles 935,000 10% operations, we alert all our businesses Our manufacturing processes 622,000 6% and re-emphasise the importance of From directly controlled agricultural activities 181,000 2% safe working conditions.
Sugar and other divisions Sugar 7,025,000 73% These accidents were fully investigated Other 2,631,000 27% by our internal safety specialists, our directors and senior managers and external regulatory authorities.
All work-related deaths are reported to the Associated British Foods board and local management are held to account for the cause and remedial action at their site.
Our approach to risk management is designed to ensure that the risks are assessed, the relevant precautions and work procedures are implemented, and that there is strong supervision.
It is a key principle that all managers are responsible for the safety of their workforce and for ensuring a safe working environment.
Each factory and business has safety managers to advise and facilitate.
These principles and resources are embedded throughout our businesses.
Gender and diversity In our 2013 CR Report, we shared our determination to welcome, promote and develop women across all of our businesses.
We have two women and seven men on the Companys board and overall 30% of all managers are women.
We are committed to increasing this number in the coming years.
To this end we have put in place a number of programmes and groups to support Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility 42 Foods is working towards having a full Gender metrics policy in place by the end of 2015.
Number of Percentage A fuller explanation of our approach to Number women in of senior Percentage of senior senior management respecting human rights and providing Total of women in management management who are remedy where necessary can be found employees Men Women workforce roles roles women at www.
gases: the abstraction of water: and the Includes directorships of subsidiary undertakings.
generation and disposal of liquid and solid wastes.
Our global policy and approach tomanaging our environmental female employees and help them Our commitment to human rights impacts isto improve the efficient use overcome any barriers they may face We believe that being responsible of natural resources and to minimise any in the workforce.
towards all our stakeholders is negative impact on the environment.
fundamental to our responsibility as a In 2014, oursites received 627 visits We have now held nine meetings of the business.
Our commitment to respect from the environmental regulator which Womens Business Education Forum, human rights is founded in a strong ethos is similar tothe number of visits last year, a network and learning group for of workplace safety and employee and most of which were routine.
More wellbeing, and is supported by our than 150 women have attended these Energy use commitment to ensure compliance with events, giving them the opportunity to In 2014, our absolute use of energy was the UN Declaration on Human Rights.
network with one another, build their 25,416 GWh compared to 23,316 GWh Our commitment spans our duty to be business understanding, and grow their in2013.
responsible for our people, to be a confidence in aspiring to leadership roles.
responsible neighbour and also to be The year-on-year increase of 9% can One of the biggest challenges that our responsible stewards of our environment.
largely be explained by the reporting, female employees face is returning to for the first time, of the additional energy Protecting the lives we touch is important work after having children.
AB Sugar, use included in the scope of greenhouse to us.
This means doing everything we Twinings Ovaltine and our UK Grocery gas reporting.
For example, we are now can to respect the human rights of all our businesses have introduced maternity reporting energy used in our agricultural employees and workers involved in the coaching and support to help women operations whereas previously we supply of products and services in our manage this important transition in the reported only energy used in our global supply chain.
As a matter of good context of their professional lives.
practice, we risk-assess the impact that Another aspect of promoting diversity our operations may have on the protection We are pleased to report that 54% of in the workplace is attracting young and respect of human rights.
We ensure our energy is derived from renewable women into our businesses.
In the UK, a greater focus on operations under the sources.
This is a 3% increase since British Sugar and AB Agri are corporate jurisdiction of governments that have a last year and demonstrates how our members of Women in Science & lesser commitment to the protection of businesses continue to explore reducing Engineering, which builds relationships human rights.
dependency on fossil fuels and cut with schools, universities and educational resultant emissions.
The majority of As part of our commitment in this area groups.
We are developing a Schools our renewable energy comes from the Primark will, by the end of 2014, have Liaison Programme to help build a burning of sugar cane fibre once the sugar agreed and adopted a publically available pipeline of female leaders for the future.
has been extracted: this makes our on-site human rights policy.
Associated British energy production and use of by-products Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility We are pleased to report that 54% of our energy is derived from renewable sources.
This is a 3% increase since last year.
Across tonnes, thereby diverting more material 43 Illovo, 93% of all energy consumed is from increasingly scarce landfill sites.
Type of energy used in 2014 % sourced from renewable sources.
Our high recycling rate is the positive 6 Water usage and disposal of outcome of focused attention by our 5 waste water businesses on improving their waste 1 4 Since 2010, we have made extensive segregation and disposal management.
investments in developing our operational This includes a range of site specific 3 management and reporting of water.
The activities such as engaging with new majority of our businesses have robust waste management contractors and measurement and reporting systems in improving waste segregation to allow place.
A number have implemented for targeted reuse.
Our waste recycling water efficiency programmes with the results in a wide range of applications management of water quantity and including: environmental restoration 2 quality as priorities.
Illovo in Africa has and landscaping: soil pH treatment and prepared a five-year strategic water fertiliser: the production of paper: and management plan this year.
We also recycle a 1 Renewable fuels 54% methodology has been implemented number of by-products including plastic, 2 Natural gas 27% for calculating the water footprint of each paper and cardboard, metal, glass, mud 3 Solid fuels 8% 4 Electricity 7% site to quantify consumption of surface and ash.
5 Imported steam 2% water, groundwater and rain.
6 Liquid fuels 2% Packaging We believe more work is required The quantity of packaging used in our to accurately measure our global products since 2013 has been reduced water footprint and to be confident by 3% from 238,000 tonnes to 230,000 that data provides a fair representation tonnes.
This continues a long-term of our activities.
downward trend in packaging use since 2008.
This year, over 6m was invested in improving the management of effluent Responsible sourcing of palm oil and other waste water.
This includes 5m Over recent years, we have increased invested by our yeast business AB Mauri our focus on ethical procurement, in new, expanded or improved effluent adapting to emerging customer treatment plants in South America expectations and our own improved and China.
understanding of the environmental impacts potentially associated with our Waste products.
Ultimately, we strive for a In 2014 we generated 175,000 tonnes global farming system and environment of hazardous and non-hazardous waste that is sustainable.
which more than halves our previous years generation of such waste.
This In 2013, we reported that all our grocery significant reduction is due to the closure, businesses were committed to the last year, of three beet sugar factories in responsible sourcing of palm oil and, China whose soil and various filter by 2015, will use only RSPO certified residues were deemed to be waste palm products.
In addition our We have strengthened this commitment businesses have continued to work hard and are now working towards all of our to find uses for what would otherwise businesses being 100% compliant in be deemed as waste and sent to landfill.
sourcing only RSPO certified sustainable We have increased our recycled or reused palm oil products.
waste this year by 10% to 942,000 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Since 2008 we have been able to report a downward trend in the total Lost Time Injuries to our employees each year.
44 Being responsible for our people These facts demonstrate the continued Reportable injuries A business priority is to safeguard the importance of investing in the strong reportable according to the differing laws wellbeing, development and safety of safety culture of our business.
of each country our people and those who work with us.
Safety fines We put significant effort into ensuring that During 2014, four sites received fines our businesses are safe places to work totalling 31,000 for breaches of safety 551 and aim to offer our people the support 514 regulations which is a reduction of 29% most suitable for their role.
All businesses are required 372 we invested 32m in ensuring the safety to report to the group when and how of our equipment and improving working remedial actions are implemented.
Being a responsible neighbour Health and safety A good business takes seriously its Providing safe and healthy working responsibility to treat the people who live 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 conditions are of paramount importance.
close to its operations with respect and in We try very hard to reduce injuries in a neighbourly manner.
We seek to be every location and have a clear welcomed around the world as a positive requirement for continuous improvement.
Reportable injury rate contributor to the life of the community.
During 2014 we received 425 visits from safety regulatory authorities, fewer than Illovo Socio-Economic and Human 0.70% the 509 visits we received last year.
Capital Impact 0.61% The regulator visits were mainly routine In 2013 Illovo, having identified 0.51% 0.49% but also included accident investigations.
community collaboration as a key 0.40% We ensure that any findings from strategic priority, invited sustainability regulators are acted upon immediately.
experts Corporate Citizenship to conduct two research projects on its operations Injuries to our employees in southern Africa.
One area of research This is the fifth consecutive year thatwe focused on human capital and the role have reported a reduction in reportable the business has in supporting the skills, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 injuries.
In 2014 reportable injuries have health and education levels of local fallen by a further 16%.
The other research project The percentage of employees having focused on the socio-economic impact a reportable injury has reduced from of the business.
0.49% of our total workforce in 2013 This research revealed that Illovo to 0.40% in 2014. contributed an estimated 1bn to Since 2008, we have been able to report African economies last year which is a downward trend in the total Lost Time equivalent to about 50% of the GDP of Injuries to our employees each year.
As well as directly employing 2014, these totalled 537 which was 6% 29,000 people, it supports the livelihoods lower than last year and 45% lower than of more than 400,000 people.
This equates to a reduction of 3% contributed 10.8m in social benefits in the number of employee days lost due to employees and neighbouring to Lost Time Injuries compared with last communities, including healthcare, year.
In total, 386 of our sites did not have education, housing and other projects.
For our reporting purposes, a Lost Time Injury arises out of or in connection with ABF work activities and results in the employee being absent from work for at least one day, or shift, within 12 months of the accident.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Helping Mexican craft bakers thrive balance of its portfolio over time.
community level when attempting to 45 AB Mauri wanted to both understand They have reformulated the Original limit the spread of a disease.
This benefits its customers and help them succeed Crunchy bar which now contains our workforce, but also their families so it set about analysing the craft bakery 23% less fat, 24% less sugar and and neighbours.
It found that there was a 62% less saturated fat.
In southern Africa, malaria is a persistent wide range of barriers to success, from a We can also improve the nutritional value threat and Ilovo Sugar has invested in lack of knowledge to a lack of willingness of a product by adding to it.
In March an integrated malaria control strategy.
to adapt to new market conditions.
It also 2014, Allied Milling and Baking launched In Mozambique, Ilovo Sugar is working found that small bakers were uncertain Kingsmill Great White in the UK which has with the government to expand its about how to secure new funding and the same amount of fibre as wholemeal programme of home spraying into the invest wisely.
See page 17 for more information.
In one community in Project Lighthouse, aims to redevelop 100 Mozambique, this resulted in a 62% drop craft bakeries around Mexico.
AB Mauri Helping our people to be healthy in recorded cases of malaria in a year.
has committed to being a supportive In addition to considering the health partner with credible experience and benefits of our products, many of our Twinings Ovaltine works with three knowledge to help these bakers thrive.
businesses have programmes in place international NGOs, UNICEF, Save The first store to benefit from the project to help staff stay fit and well.
These the Children and Mercy Corps, on has seen revenues increase by 40% with initiatives help to improve health, boost programmes designed to improve the queues forming at busy times.
morale and lower staff absence, making health of workers and wider communities.
them good for business as well as for All three partnerships continue to deliver Being responsible for promoting our teams.
good health Promoting good health is a principle AB Sugar signed the UK governments In India, Twinings Ovaltines collaboration our businesses put into action every Public Health Responsibility Deal pledge with UNICEF and local tea producers in day.
At the most direct level, this means on physical activity and introduced a Assam is aimed at improving the lives of striving for the highest standards on new Future Fit programme for staff: 7,000 women living with family members food safety and improving the nutritional Speedibake devoted a week in August who work on tea gardens.
The project content of our food and ingredients.
2014 to events and presentations: was launched in 2011 and, by March Where we have less control, we aim to and George Weston Foods has 2014, anaemia levels in adolescent girls use our influence to improve the health introduced a new training module living on tea estates had been reduced by of the people around us by implementing on Health and Wellbeing.
13% and the proportion of girls who are employee wellbeing programmes and chronically malnourished had been In September 2013, Azucarera signed supporting the health of workers in reduced by a third.
Twinings Ovaltine is the Luxembourg Declaration on developing countries.
continuing to work with UNICEF in this Workplace Health Promotion, signalling region, evolving this project to protect Making our products even better the companys commitment to 34,000 girls in 63 tea gardens by 2017.
We continue to explore ways in which improving the health of their employees to improve the nutritional content of our and promoting wellbeing at work.
Since products, particularly by adding nutrients then, Azucarera has implemented a or reducing the proportion of fat and number of health campaigns including sugar.
Maintaining great tasting products offering vaccines and monitoring the risk is a crucial part of this reformulation factors of cardiovascular disease such as activity: we want to help people eat better weight gain and elevated blood pressure while still enjoying the products they love.
Jordans Ryvita has sought guidance Promoting good health in from leading academics to create a communities science-based nutrition strategy For our businesses in developing supported by targets to improve the countries, health challenges are composition of its products and the sometimes best addressed at the Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
