Corporate responsibility and support these strategies and actively Promoting a culture of responsibility, developing manage performance, with regular smarter ways of working and attracting the best talent, reporting back to the corporate centre.
and delivering operational efficiencies to enhance How we manage CR Strong governance is essential to margins form key elements of our six-point business embedding responsible business practices strategy.
Behaving ethically, working safely, reducing across the Group.
Our Board of directors is ultimately responsible for the stewardship our environmental impact, attracting and developing of the business, including the Code.
our people and contributing to our communities The Board sets the tone for the Group, establishes high ethical standards of creates long-term value for our shareholders and our behaviour and robust corporate governance wider stakeholders.
and risk management frameworks, defines our strategic and financial objectives, as well as monitoring succession planning.
Our Code of Business Ethics the Code Why Corporate responsibility CR Our Code of Business Ethics sets out 12 is important to Smiths The Chief Executive and the executive broad principles for how we do business, Operating within the Code and implementing team are responsible for delivering our based on the common values of integrity, our CR objectives enables us to meet our strategic objectives, upholding the Code, honesty, fairness and transparency.
obligations to our stakeholders and delivers implementing its supporting policies It provides the framework for our policies, real business benefits, creating long-term and delivering both our overall business programmes and procedures for a range value for shareholders.
It: strategy and specific CR strategies.
CR of CR issues and is intended to enable Protects our reputation and ability to grow issues are typically the top agenda item at our employees to make ethical decisions Executive Committee and Board meetings everytime.
Helps us to win business from customers and our executive team champion our who value strong CR performance commitments and strategies within Our Code of Business Ethics Enhances our efficiency the business, setting and continually reinforcing the tone from the top.
Further 1 We comply with the law Enables our people to work productively, detail on how CR is managed between the in a safe and ethical environment 2 We compete fairly corporate centre and the divisions can be Helps us to attract and retain talent, and found in Our business model on p12-13.
3 We act with integrity in all our business encourages employees to take pride in dealings Within this framework, we have distinct working for us governance and management structures 4 We treat suppliers, partners and Reduces the risk of incidents and their for each of our CR focus areas, reflecting customers properly the diverse nature of our activities and associated costs.
5 We treat our co-workers respectfully decentralised structure.
Many of our products also benefit the 6 We contribute to healthy, safe and environment and contribute to the safety, secure workplaces health and security of people around the world.
For example, Smiths Detections 7 We respect the environment security scanners play a vital role in helping 8 We contribute to our communities to prevent terror attacks, while John Cranes seals help its customers to reduce 9 We participate in relevant public their environmental impacts.
You can see debates examples of these throughout this report.
10 We respect human rights CR trends 11 We have high standards of financial The business environment is constantly record-keeping and reporting evolving and we recognise that there are a number of environmental, social and 12 The Code applies to all of us Global ethics forum regulatory trends that could influence We held our third global ethics forum in Smiths and the industries in which we Read more at October 2013 in Dubai, UAE.
These trends include an increased www.
com responsibility brought together 75 senior executives regulatory focus on avoiding bribery and and managers from around the Group corruption, increased competition for to consider the business and ethical talent, pressure on energy and water use, challenges of doing business in the Middle climate change, materials safety and the East.
The programme included input ability to recycle waste and products which from subject matter experts and local have reached the end of their useful life.
business leaders, together with a number Our strategic focus areas of case study scenarios.
The participants Our Code of Business Ethics provides the were required to develop action plans to framework for the way we do business in respond to a variety of ethical challenges, support of our business strategy and, more which they then discussed with members specifically, how we manage many of our of the Smiths Group Executive Committee.
Within this, we focus on five This event is one of a series of interactive priority issues: ethics, the environment, programmes addressing similar issues health and safety, our people and the in many of the developing or emerging communities in which we operate.
These markets in which we operate.
priorities are shared across the Group and our divisions are required to implement 66 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 any time through call centres operated by to address the particular challenges Ethics a contracted management company, which associated with operating in these provides continuous coverage and support countries.
Following the success of our Our global Ethics programme is focused in 35 languages.
All issues are addressed global ethics forums in Shanghai, China in on embedding a culture of ethical promptly and referred, as required, to 2011, So Paulo, Brazil in 2012, and Dubai compliance across Smiths so that our relevant internal or external specialists in October 2013, we plan to hold a similar employees do the right things, the right for investigation.
Our non-retaliation policy forum in Berlin in June 2015. way, every time.
Our objective is not only means that any employee who in good faith to protect the reputation of our company Controls on defence sales reports an act of apparent misconduct or and to safeguard the investment of our We seek to ensure that all sales unethical behaviour will not be victimised shareholders, but also to protect the and exports of defence equipment or treated adversely.
interests of every employee by ensuring are undertaken in accordance with individual legal and regulatory compliance Strategy and objectives international trade regulations and as well as responsible behaviour.
We embed the Code through national government export and approval communication, training and awareness procedures and regulations, such as the programmes in order to promote a culture International Traffic in Arms Regulation 2014 Highlights of ethical compliance, as well as developing and the Export Administration Regulations Held our third global ethics forum and enhancing the policies and control in the US.
These laws prohibit export of in Dubai, UAE, to reflect our growing processes in place to ensure compliance certain items to specific countries.
The presence in emerging markets with laws and regulations across the Groups policy is to adhere to all relevant Expanded training in areas such as jurisdictions in which we operate.
We government guidelines designed to ensure anti-bribery and corruption for third continually review and update our policies that products are not incorporated into parties, international trade compliance, and business controls to mitigate changing weapons or other equipment used for the international embargoes and sanctions, areas of risk.
We also review and update purposes of terrorism or abuse of human and competition and anti-trust our Ethics programme, and systems and rights, with internal controls to ensure Expanded Code materials, adding procedures for fostering, monitoring and compliance with these guidelines.
quick reference wallet cards and new auditing ethical business conduct.
translations of Code posters, and Human rights enhanced usability of Smiths intranet In view of our strategic focus on expanding Smiths seeks to uphold all internationally Included ethics questions in our MyVoice our presence in emerging markets, we recognised human rights wherever global employee engagement survey have developed our programme to address its operations are located.
Within this Adopted Supplier Code of Business the heightened, evolving risks of doing framework, we do not tolerate the use Ethics, implemented by contractual business in these markets.
Other focus of child or forced labour at Smiths facilities terms that set the Code as a minimum areas include expanding online training or those of our suppliers.
We take all steps standard for ethical operations programmes, encouraging open discussion possible to ensure our products are not andbehaviours of ethical risks with employees at every used to abuse human rights.
level of the organisation, developing Governance Priorities for 2015 additional policies to enhance governance Our Ethics and Compliance programme Hold our fourth global ethics forum of key areas, and continued collaboration is led by the Code Compliance Council, in Berlin with Internal Audit as part of our risk which acts as the steering committee Continue to update our training management and assurance processes.
and reports to the Audit Committee.
and compliance programmes in The Council is responsible for determining Policies and training line with changing business needs priorities, reviewing key issues and making and regulations, such as expanding We also expand and update training on recommendations to the Audit Committee.
other key areas of compliance to address international sanctions and embargoes The Council is supported by the Senior Refresh online Code of Ethics training evolving global risks.
For example, in 2013 Vice President, Ethics and Compliance, we updated and launched our training Train suppliers on our ethical standards who serves as an adviser and resource on and requirements to support the launch on international trade compliance and ethical issues and manages responses to competition & anti-trust to the relevant of the new Supplier Code of Business all enquiries and allegations, and by legal Ethics, including the prohibition of any personnel in several languages.
This counsel, who provide compliance support year we launched an online course on abuse of human rights.
Continue to ensure ethics messages Ethics Training for Third Parties for our agents, distributors and external sales are received and understood by all The Chief Executive and senior employees worldwide representatives.
We also introduced a management champion the Code, setting new Supplier Code of Business Ethics, and continually reinforcing the tone from which is available externally on the Smiths the top.
The Code is also communicated Environment, health & safety EHS website and provided to all major suppliers.
through a variety of channels and The Supplier Code and our contractual Promoting a culture of responsibility trainingprogrammes.
provisions require suppliers to maintain throughout the Group is part of our Reporting concerns and managing high ethical standards in line with our business strategy and our Code of specific issues Supplier Code or their own comparable Business Ethics.
We are committed to We encourage employees who have ethics programme.
achieving excellence in environment, concerns or queries about the Code to health and safety management and We continue to update policies on areas raise them with line management, Human performance and providing effective such as international trade sanctions Resources, their local in-house legal leadership in the pursuit of injury-free and and embargoes, import and customs, counsel or our confidential Ethics Alertline.
The Alertline answers queries and enables We also undertook a wider review of the employees to report any concerns or Smiths Group policies.
It is available via email, the presence in emerging markets, we have internet and toll-free phone numbers in 53 also continued to build on our programme countries.
Employees can raise concerns at Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 67 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate responsibility Continued 2014 Highlights to the strategy and allow us to assess Total energy Implemented a new EHS management our progress.
Achievement of KPIs is 000MWh software system also part of our senior management Re-evaluated our most serious EHS .
risks and identified additional actions Environmental targets for reduction 2014 281 In 2013, we set new five-year targets for Introduced a serious incident metric 2013 278 our environmental metrics.
Our targets are to help monitor injury severity trends 2012 279 to achieve 15% reductions in energy usage, and respond accordingly 2011 303 greenhouse gas emissions and waste Performed a gap analysis of our GHG generation, and a 10% reduction in water 2010 305 emissions reporting to further improve usage by FY2018, all normalised to revenue completeness and accuracy against a baseline of FY2013.
Total CO2 emissions EHS governance and management Our greenhouse gas GHG emissions 000 tonnes Our environmental, health and safety calculation methodology closely follows EHS approach starts with our EHS the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and includes policy, which was recently updated, and emissions from sources under our control.
is supported by our EHS strategy, KPIs 2014 99 In addition, the inventory consists of Scope 1 and goals.
Our divisions adapt the Group direct GHG emissions from sources owned 2013 103 EHS strategy to reflect their specific or controlled by the company and Scope2 2012 110 impacts and any opportunities to improve GHG emissions from the generation of 2011 121 their EHS management and performance.
purchased electricity consumed by the 2010 124 We believe in the power of continuous company emissions.
In 2014, an external improvement and use management adviser performed a review of our GHG systems to realise its benefits.
In addition, emissions calculation methodology and Water use 3 management systems provide detailed risk prepared a GHG Inventory Management 000m and issue identification that helps sites to Plan that will be used to further align prioritise and focus on the most concerning our emissions calculation methodology risks.
We require all manufacturing, with the GHG Protocol.
It was concluded 2014 440 warehousing and service centre sites with that emissions from vehicles, production 2013 435 more than 20 employees to implement processes and fugitive sources are small management systems OHSAS 18001 and not material compared to our total 2012 465 for occupational health and safety and GHG emissions.
Due to the difficult nature 2011 485 ISO 14001 for environmental.
Sites with of collecting emission data from these 2010 515 50 or more employees are required to sources and their immateriality, they have have their EHS management systems been excluded from the inventory totals.
Total non-recycled waste externally certified.
Of the 98 sites that are The materiality of these sources will be 000 tonnes required to be externally certified, 96 have reviewed again in the future.
Including sites that Over the past four years we have significantly voluntarily certify, 111 sites are externally reduced our environmental impact, with certified.
Sites that have not completed 18% energy, 29% GHG, 24% water and 2014 5.3 certification have action plans to do so.
25% non-recycled waste reductions, 2013 5.6 Newacquisitions or expanded operations normalised to revenue.
Our environmental 2012 5.5 have two years to obtain certification.
performance continued, overall, its long- 2011 6.1 EHS strategy term improvement trend.
We achieved 2010 6.2 Our EHS strategy is designed to protect our good progress in reducing GHG emissions employees, communities, environment, and and non-recycled waste.
Minor increases shareholder value by effectively managing were recorded in energy and water usages safety and environmental risks.
During due to colder winter temperatures and an 2013, we updated our strategic objectives increase in sales of products using water and goals.
This strategy development in the production process.
Less waterprocess involved benchmarking against intensive production methods are being peers and other high-performing developed for these products.
companies and evaluating global trends.
We identified strategic areas that we will Performance against environmental targets focus on over the next three years, including Target FY2013-18 FY2014 progress against FY2013 safety culture, training, risk identification Energy 15% reduction 1% increase and mitigation and energy management.
Greenhouse gas emissions 15% reduction 4% reduction The Smiths Group sustainability strategy provides direction for the divisions to Total non-recycled waste 15% reduction 5% reduction manage their sustainability agenda based Water consumption 10% reduction 1% increase on evaluation of practical sustainability application and importance to its Reduction targets are compared to the FY2013 baseline year and normalised to revenue business.
Each division identifies and consolidated at FY2014 closing exchange rates.
defines the specific actions for their businesses.
Our EHS KPIs are aligned 68 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Health and safety management After years of reductions, our LTIR has Total energy efficiency The Group is committed to working in been steady at 0.22 for the past two years.
MWh m revenue a way that protects, as far as reasonably This is still well below our FY2008 of 0.54. practicable, the health and safety of its Over the past ten years, we experienced employees.
Our employees recognise two occupational fatalities with an employee 2014 98 this commitment.
In our Group-wide at a former facility in Sweden in 2003 and engagement surveys, workplace safety a contractor in Costa Rica in 2007.
2013 97 continues to be the highest scoring 2012 100 Security is an important part of protecting dimension, exceeding the worldwide 2011 116 our employees and our business.
We aim benchmark for manufacturing industry.
to minimise security risks in order to 2010 119 Our Group-wide activities to reduce safeguard our people and physical and incidents have focused on leadership intellectual property.
Our Group Security Total CO2 emissions and employee safety awareness and Director advises the Executive Committee Tonnes m revenue involvement and risk reduction.
We on current and emerging security risks.
continue to implement and build on these The Executive Committee is responsible for activities and are monitoring them through setting Group-wide priorities and reviewing our Safety Leading Indicator Activities our approach and performance.
We use a safety leading Security Committee oversees progress and 2013 36 indicator activity score as a KPI for safety, shares good practice, while the divisions 2012 39 complementing the recordable incident are responsible for the implementation 2011 46 rate RIR.
Sites are required to complete of division-specific security initiatives.
Our 2010 49 a minimum number of proactive safety Security programme includes Group-wide activities, which count towards their score.
minimum standards covering physical and procedural security at company Water consumption Annually, we create new leadership and sites, business travel security and 3 employee training programmes to build m m revenue securityawareness.
Supervisor safety management training was added in FY2014 Safety performance to improve the safety skills supervisors 2014 results 2014 154 need for managing a workforce.
In FY2015, Recordable incident rate 0.50 2013 152 the activities will be split between common Group-wide and division-specific activities 2012 167 Lost time incident rate 0.22 to further target the specific improvement 2011 185 needs of each division.
Priorities for 2015 2010 202 Develop global technical minimum Health and safety targets standards to reduce our most serious Our FY2014 safety performance metrics Total non-recycled waste EHS risks were the Safety Leading Indicator Activity Tonnes m revenue Complete the implementation of our Score, RIR and Lost Time Incident Rate new EHS management software system LTIR.
Smiths Group and all divisions completed the required number of safety leading indicator activities, which will 2014 1.9 support our efforts to improve our safety 2013 2.0 culture and risk management.
2012 2.0 2011 2.3 As part of our strategic plan updating and benchmarking in FY2013, we also 2010 2.4 updated our safety performance targets.
The new safety targets increase focus on FY2013 metrics have been revised marginally from last Recordable incident rate leading indicator activities designed to year to reflect refinements in monitoring.
reduce the risk of incidents.
We will place Where an employee requires medical attention beyond first aid per 100 employees per year less emphasis on the lagging indicator Recordable Incident Rate RIR.
However, we will continue to monitor RIR and lost time 2014 0.50 incident rate and investigate incidents for 2013 0.54 contributing factors and trends to help focus 2012 0.60 risk assessments.
In FY2014, we developed 2011 0.66 a new metric to increase our focus on serious incidents and risks.
Our ultimate 2010 0.71 ambition is zero harm to employees.
Adopting this further emphasises to Lost time incident rate employees and other stakeholders how Where an employee is unable to work the day after seriously we take our EHS performance.
an incident per 100 employees per year Health and safety performance Since 2004, we have achieved a steady 2014 0.22 reduction in our RIR, with FY2014 being our safest on record.
Whilst our aspiration 2013 0.22 is zero harm, we improved our RIR from 2012 0.21 0.54 to 0.50 with 9% fewer incidents in 2011 0.29 2014, meeting our objective to continuously 2010 0.30 improve.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 69 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Corporate responsibility Continued Performance Diversity and inclusion People Building the talent pipeline With operations in more than 50 countries and succession planning and a strategic focus on innovation and Attracting, retaining and developing the Our focus on succession planning has expanding into new geographic markets, right people with the right skills is central delivered significant progress in building having a diverse, engaged workforce to our ambition of transforming Smiths our talent pipeline, through a more rigorous that reflects our footprint and brings into a world-class organisation and and consistent approach to assessing local knowledge, fresh perspectives and supporting our growth ambitions.
talent and a greater focus on preparing and constructive challenge is critical.
We We believe that people growth is a strong monitoring personal development plans.
aim to provide an inclusive, collaborative enabler of business growth and we We have also invested significantly in our culture that values every individual, fosters develop our employees capabilities so two leadership development programmes.
collaboration, and provides the tools, they can fulfil their potential and help us Horizons fosters emerging talent at junior opportunities and challenges to enable to fulfil ours.
levels, while Aspire2 develops senior them to fulfil their potential and add value leaders.
These programmes challenge to the business.
and engage our employees, build their 2014 Highlights At the end of FY2014, 39% of our global understanding of the wider Group, Strengthened our talent pipeline through workforce and 10% of our senior managers increase their exposure to our senior targeted external recruitment and a were women.
We are committed to leaders and enhance their core leadership focus on talent assessment, personal increasing the diversity in its broadest competencies.
The programmes will development and succession planning sense of our workforce, and our two also improve the diversity of candidates, Rolled out junior and senior leadership leadership development programmes will especially in the areas of gender and development programmes help to increase the diversity of candidates emerging market backgrounds.
Over 100 Conducted our third MyVoice global for senior positions.
Two of our Board managers from across the business have employee engagement survey directors 22% were women, slightly below been on or are currently participating in Embedded new HR operating model to the 25% recommended by the Davies these programmes.
support business growth Report as the Board grew with the arrival We provide a wide variety of learning of Bill Seeger.
We hope to address this as Governance and training opportunities, ranging from Board membership evolves.
Over the past four years, we have workshops and mentoring to online transformed our HR function to bring Employees by gender resources and internal and external world-class people management to Smiths Male Female Total training courses.
Personal development and to leverage our strength and scale.
Board directors 7 2 9 planning and identification of training and Our new model combines consistent, best development needs form a key part of our practice approaches and programmes Senior managers 229 25 254 annual performance review process and we in key areas with divisional initiatives are rolling out a new, enhanced toolkit to Total employees 14,600 9,500 24,100 that address specific business needs, support this as part of the development of supported by GlobalView, Smiths first HR Senior managers are as defined by the Companies GlobalView.
The utilisation of an Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, which includes employees who have e-enabled model empowers managers and We constantly challenge ourselves as responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the employees to take more responsibility for to whether we have the right skills and activities of the Group or a strategically significant part many aspects of their working lives.
competencies to support our growth of the Group other than Board members and or who are directors of subsidiary undertakings ambitions and believe this is best achieved Strategy and objectives Full-time equivalents at 31 July 2014 through a healthy balance of recruiting the We have consistently focused on very best external candidates to bring fresh strengthening our leadership capabilities It is our policy to provide equal employment approaches and perspectives, while also opportunities.
The Group recruits, selects and talent pipeline at both senior and junior strengthening our internal talent pipeline.
levels, improving succession planning, and promotes employees on the basis of their qualifications, skills, aptitude and enhancing employee engagement and Performance and reward transforming our HR function to provide a attitude.
In employment-related decisions, Managing performance is critical to we comply with all applicable antistrong platform for growth.
ensuring our employees fulfil their discrimination requirements in the relevant potential and deliver business results.
As we work to transform Smiths into jurisdictions.
People with disabilities are In a competitive marketplace, we a world-class organisation, a talented given full consideration for employment recognise the importance of rewarding and determined workforce, united and subsequent training including employees appropriately and aim to offer by commercial acumen, an appetite retraining, if needed, for people who have compensation and benefits packages that for innovation, strong leadership and become disabled, career development and enable us to attract, develop and retain a commitment to collaboration and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes key talent.
Our new HR operating model is responsibility, will be essential to achieving and abilities.
We endeavour to find driving consistent best-in-class approaches our ambitions.
To support this, we will appropriate alternative jobs for those who to reward across the Group.
We encourage continue to develop our leadership are unable to continue in their existing job our people to share in our success and capabilities throughout the organisation because of disability.
periodically offer employees in the US and to ensure we have the depth and breadth UK opportunities to participate in share necessary to support growth: deepen our All our employees are treated with respect plans, aligning their interests more closely and dignity.
Accordingly, any harassment focus on our technological and engineering with those of shareholders.
expertise in order to drive innovation and or bullying is unacceptable.
The Group respects the right of each employee to join maintain our technological leadership: and continue to build employee engagement or not to join a trade union or other bona fide employee representative organisation.
across the business in response to the global MyVoice survey and ongoing feedback.
70 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Employee engagement We recognise that an engaged and motivated workforce is critical to achieving our objectives.
Our MyVoice survey is a valuable tool for measuring engagement and providing insight into our employees motivations and priorities.
We conducted our third survey in 2014 in partnership with Kenexa, a part of IBM and a leading survey provider, to ensure that responses were anonymous and to enable us to conduct the survey in local languages.
We achieved a participation rate of 85% and benchmarked results against global norms for the manufacturing industry.
We communicated divisional, local and functional results and action plans are in place across the business to address the most significant issues highlighted.
During FY2014, we also continued to address the results of the 2012 survey and incorporated any ongoing initiatives in the most recent survey action plans to ensure continuity.
We intend to conduct an interim engagement Priorities for 2015 Horizons development programme survey in the future based on a significant Continue to develop leadership Our junior leadership development sample of employees in order to monitor capabilities throughout the organisation programme, Horizons, aims to build progress.
Deepen our focus on technological and participants understanding of the engineering expertise wider Group, increase their exposure Communication Continue the roll-out of GlobalView tools to senior leadership and enhance Communication is fundamental to to support performance management their core leadership competencies.
This having been and development Running over 12 months, it mixes theory, identified as a key theme in the last MyVoice Conduct an interim MyVoice engagement business simulations, presentations survey, we have implemented a number of survey based on a significant sample of and psychometric testing with business initiatives to improve information sharing, employees to monitor progress projects.
facilitate greater collaboration and improve news flow at both Group and divisional The mix of different personalities, levels.
These include developing a new Communities cultures and divisions helped me better intranet platform, more regular updates understand my own leadership style and Contributing to the communities in which on performance and key business issues, how to strengthen it.
The programme we operate benefits both local people and and providing greater opportunities for also taught me a lot about Smiths Group our business.
It helps to drive prosperity feedback and dialogue.
This has built on and what role I can play in the company in local communities, enhance our profile the wide variety of well-established tools in the future.
The contacts I made with and reputation, promote employee and channels used across the Group, some outstanding leaders and peers engagement and attract new employees.
including site meetings, team briefings, from across the Group continue to help presentations and newsletters.
me every day, said participant Louise Branigan, a Commercial Marketing In European Union EU countries we have Given the diversity of our business and our Manager based in the UK.
I feel the workplace information and consultation decentralised structure, our community Smiths leadership is really supporting me arrangements at our sites.
These link relationships and charitable programmes in growing my career.
to the Smiths Group European Forum, are primarily managed at a local level through which employee representatives to allow our businesses to focus on the Fellow participant Dharaiv Dalal, from across the EU meet annually to particular needs of their markets and a Marketing Manager from India, discuss transnational matters with Group communities.
We also offer some Groupcommented, Horizons was excellent executives.
Our 2014 Forum was held in the level support to community and charitable with the right balance of business UK and saw 16 representatives from across organisations, considering charities and management and personal development, the Group meet with senior executives to organisations that demonstrate how a through public speaking and group work.
discuss matters such as HR, ethics, market donation will enhance the well-being of The exposure to different functions and conditions and business strategy and people through improved education, health divisions provided a great platform for performance.
Feedback from the event was and welfare or environment.
developing my understanding of the extremely positive.
In FY2014, we made charitable donations of 192,000 as a Group.
Our employees also Acquisition integration When new businesses are acquired, we raised money for a wide range of charitable causes through a variety of fund-raising implement plans to integrate them into the Group, ensuring that our business ethics, initiatives across the business.
Strategic report employee development and EHS policies The Strategic report was approved by the and programmes are well established.
We Board on 16 September 2014. regularly review our processes in these areas, to identify opportunities to improve.
By order of the Board Peter Turner Finance Director Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 71 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview Bringing technology to life Making the world healthier Since 2007 Smiths Medicals Portex epidural catheters have assisted in managing pain for more than 17 million patients in over 100 countries.
Commonly used during childbirth, the catheter carries painkilling drugs directly into the nerves around the spine in the small of the patients back to provide safe and highly effective regional anaesthesia.
72 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 Governance We introduce our Board, explain our approach to corporate governance Bringing technology to life and give details of the Companys remuneration principles and policies to support shareholder value creation Making the world healthier Board of directors 74 Corporate governance statement 77 Directors remuneration report 92 Group directors report 110 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 73 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
