STRATEGIC REPORT 36 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED OUR BUSINESS TO PROVIDE RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SOCO is an upstream, international oil and gas taxes and governmental fees: generate revenues Our relationships with our business partners, exploration and production company.
We are a from hydrocarbon production: and create returns host governments, local communities, contractors participating partner in six oil licence interests in for our shareholders.
From the initial decision and our employees are highly valued and our Vietnam, Congo Brazzaville, DRC and Angola.
to invest, through to the management and success as an international business depends on Our core business is to add shareholder value by divestment of operations, we are guided by building and maintaining the support of the local recognising opportunity, capturing potential and an approach to bring economic rewards to our communities amongst whom we operate.
We do this by: stakeholders, safely and responsibly.
a long term approach to listening and responding to the needs of our stakeholders, and contributing gaining access to investment opportunities Our approach in both exploration and to the development of communities through in projects or regions early on in the project development is to partner with other businesses targeted investments which meet our business life cycle where there is potential to create and host governments through their national objectives as well as being material to our significant upside through our participation: oil companies.
This means that our portfolio stakeholders.
We also work to ensure that our varies by our degree of ownership, operatorship stakeholders benefit from our operations and applying our managerial, technical and and influence.
In light of this, our approach to the wealth that these operations generate, commercial expertise to progress the project responsible and sustainable development is and by doing so seek to build on our reputation through its formative stages or through tailored to the individual projects.
Where we are as a trusted, fair,  periods of difficulty: and the Operator, our influence is high.
Where we are and sustainable business.
a minority owner and non-operator, we seek to locking in the investment returns once our influence our partners to integrate responsible and The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative capacity to add value begins to diminish.
sustainable development aligned with our values was launched 12 years ago to promote transparent Our aim is to ensure that all of our stakeholders and objectives into the project.
We assess the reporting by governments of tax and royalty benefit from our operations and the wealth capabilities of our contractors to meet technical revenues in the mineral resource extraction sector.
We contribute to the economic as well as HSES specifications for our activities and We support the principles of this initiative and are development of the countries where we operate, we have procedures to capture, record and review committed to this effort in Congo Brazzaville and and by doing so, build a reputation lessons learned from our operational activities.
We also support the Reports on Payments as a reliable, fair and responsible company.
to Government Regulations 2014, effective from Our licence to operate depends on transparent 1 January 2015 and consequently will publish We apply our technical, managerial and relationships with host governments, local the details of tax and royalty payments made to commercial expertise to create jobs in local communities, partners, employees, shareholders, governments around the world by SOCO and our communities: provide training and technical NGOs, contractors and the media.
We maintain subsidiaries in the next reporting cycle.
assistance: stimulate the local economy: enhance an open dialogue with them as we strive to the capacity of host governments: pay relevant balance their interests with ours.
KEY BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY OBJECTIVE DEVELOPMENTS FOR 2014 AND PLANS FOR 2015 OBJECTIVE: TO PROVIDE RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MEANING IMPLEMENTATION OUTCOME 2014 ONGOING PLANS 2015 We endeavour to Review of HSES policies Alignment of HSES MS with IFC Continue to implement 2014 HSES MS across SOCOs make a net positive and procedures to align World Bank Performance Standards operated projects.
contribution through with IFC World Bank has been completed.
Undertake review of HLHVJOCs HSES MS. balancing the needs Performance Standards.
Revised 2014 HSES MS has been for energy security: Become a formal sponsor of the Extractives Industries rolled out across SOCO Africa region.
Review the Terms of All staff received training on 2014 development: social Reference of the Audit HSES MS.
Explore potential for membership of leading industry improvement: and Risk Committee, Revised Terms of Reference of the sustainability initiatives, certification under quality assurance protection of the clarifying the Audit and Risk Committee were standards and adoption of best practice reporting standards environment and Committees issued and published, clarify ing the e. g. GRI Guidelines, UN Global Compact, ISO 14001 and shareholder returns.
responsibility for Committees responsibility for OHSAS 18001. sustainability within sustainability within the business.
Report KPIs and targets for Group business data reporting in the business.
line with industry best practices.
