39 SOCIETY TO ENHANCE THE WELLBEING OF OUR HOST COMMUNITIES Fundamental to our CSR strategic objectives In Congo Brazzaville and DRC, we have polices and throughout our business processes is the commitment to support the welfare of greater influence over the projects, given touching our own workers and reaching out the local communities amongst whom we the ownership structure, and accordingly into our supply chain, affected communities operate in an effective and sustainable manner.
are in a position to suggest to Government, and other stakeholders.
We maintain the social SOCOs social impact therefore takes many following consultation, what the structure of responsibility and security of our operations forms, notably capacity building through projects could be to achieve positive impact within a framework that ensures respect for developing new skills, creating jobs and on our host communities in which we operate.
We have adopted the Voluntary stimulating the local job market in developing In Vietnam, our JOC Partners lead these Principles on Security and Human Rights countries, often in some of the poorest parts projects and we contribute according to the implemented through our social and security of the world.
To achieve positive social impact, stipulated requirements at the outset of the JV policies and supporting procedures.
There were we rely on meaningful engagement, being relationship.
In Vietnam, 50% of the total social no reported violations of our social responsibility respectful of local communities and their projects were additional voluntary contributions and security policies as they relate to human interests as well as assisting host communities, and accounted for 10% of the total social rights in 2014.
However, there were allegations of local companies and governments with budget spent.
In Africa, 14% of our social wrongdoing made by various NGOs and media technical cooperation, knowledge sharing, projects were voluntary and accounted for members see below.
Following stakeholder training with mentoring and supporting health 8% of the total social budget spent.
engagement, our human rights policy approach and educational programmes.
is in the process of being reviewed by an Our commitment to the fundamental principles independent expert after which time we expect The process for our social investment project of human rights is embedded in our HSES to produce a stand alone human rights policy.
selection is driven by our CSR strategic objectives, the category of project and the country of operation given the local regulatory SOCIAL INVESTMENT $000s context and the degree of influence we have in our projects.
We have prioritised, where CONTRACTUAL VOLUNTARY TOTAL applicable, the support of projects which meet Vietnam 182.4 19.4 201.8 our objectives and this commitment lies across Africa 1,460.0 120.0 1,580.0 all the countries in which we operate, namely Vietnam, Congo Brazzaville and DRC.
Total 1,642.4 139.4 1,781.8 KEY SOCIETY OBJECTIVE DEVELOPMENTS FOR 2014 AND PLANS FOR 2015 OBJECTIVE: TO ENHANCE THE WELLBEING OF OUR HOST COMMUNITIES MEANING IMPLEMENTATION OUTCOME 2014 ONGOING PLANS 2015 Building local HSES Policies and HSES Congo Brazzaville : Training of local consultants in Establish stand alone human capacity MS has been aligned stakeholder engagement requirements and processes.
rights policy in line with industry during the with IFC World Bank best practices.
Building extension project at Koufoli School.
Construction of Sibiti youth centre.
Provide training to all staff on development Strengthened human rights policy.
Supply of medical equipment and solar panels.
phases of a stakeholder project to Restoration of CEG Tchicaya school.
Revise corporate and project engagement ensure a level grievance mechanism DRC: Rehabilitation of the Ishasa-Nyakakoma road.
Provision of 20 water purification plants in imprint and Strengthened social six villages around Lake Edward.
engagement is conducted Provision of a communications antenna.
Investing in Regular voluntary according to SOCO 2014 HSES Provision of a mobile hospital.
policies for each new ESIA.
for the long Sponsorship of a disease mapping programme.
Voluntary infrastructure Continue with community term benefit Vietnam: Extension of Lien Chau Commune improvement projects.
projects in all regions we operate of local Kindergarten.
to enhance education, health or communities.
Implemented social Construction of Quynh Giao Commune Kindergarten.
programme Green Summer Project included rural road building, commitment.
Report KPIs and targets supply of medical equipment, support of a childrens for Group social data in line with charity, scholarship funding, tree planting, provision of Implemented various industry best practices.
15 clean water wells in Tan Binh District, critical recovery voluntary social support, and support to Te Phan Orphanage with projects.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
