37 OUR ETHICS TO CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS IN AN HONEST AND ETHICAL MANNER We are committed to creating value for An intensive training platform focusing on the shareholders while maintaining integrity and prevention of bribery was introduced in 2014 high ethical standards in all our business following the introduction of an enhanced, dealings.
We comply with all locally applicable comprehensive whistleblowing policy and legal, regulatory and licence requirements in procedures the previous year.
The training, the countries where we do business and seek which included testing, was rolled out across to raise standards to international best practice the Group and has been completed by all staff, levels with our business partners.
Going forward, staff are operate fully with governmental and regulatory to complete this training as part of their annual bodies, however, we do not engage in party review process.
Operational staff are additionally politics or make donations to political parties or required to return a signed declaration candidates.
Our Code of Business Conduct and confirming that they have complied with the Ethics the Code, together with the Guidelines Code throughout the year.
for Implementation, are compliant with the UK Bribery Act.
Implementation of the Code, No reports were made to the Companys training and associated internal compliance independent whistleblowing service.
During tests, provides additional assurance to the 2014, the Company engaged Clifford Chance Company regarding our compliance.
LLP to carry out an independent review to assess whether there is evidence supporting The Audit and Risk Committee assists the the allegations of wrongdoing made by various Board in monitoring ethical business conduct NGOs and media members of its activities in the and challenging that we as an organisation are DRC see p11.
compliant with the effectiveness of the Code and its supporting policies.
KEY ETHICAL OBJECTIVE DEVELOPMENTS FOR 2014 AND PLANS FOR 2015 OBJECTIVE: TO CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS IN AN HONEST AND ETHICAL MANNER MEANING IMPLEMENTATION OUTCOME 2014 ONGOING PLANS 2015 Employees conduct themselves Review of contracts for Strengthened procedures for Conclude refresh of the in an appropriate manner anti-bribery clauses.
transparency and accountability whistleblowing policy and avoiding conflicts of interest with staff and contractors.
Continued supply chain and allegations of bribery or due diligence.
Statements from operations Comply with all applicable and testing.
Honoured contracts and laws in local countries Staff Declaration statements.
obligations with host and conduct business in Continue anti-bribery training governments and local Whistleblowing policy and an ethical way.
and testing on, at a minimum, stakeholders with integrity.
Fulfilled contractual obligations Group KPIs and targets for with host governments and group ethical data in line with local stakeholders industry best practices.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
