Strategic Report Resources Review Employees To achieve our strategic priorities, we need to acquire, retain and develop a talented workforce committed to the pursuit of our purpose and values.
We value the talents and skills of our regretted turnover through high-level reviews Overview 57,500 employees in more than 100 of resignations, risk assessments and countries.
Our employees strategy, which retention plans.
Hired some 9,900 permanent supports our strategic priority of being a employees to help us achieve our great place to work, is based on various Acquisitions to support our growth strategic priorities key principles.
These principles include platforms acquiring, retaining and developing talent Two of our acquisitions in 2014 involved Successfully integrated 4,100 people and inspiring and engaging employees in the transfer of a substantial number of into AstraZeneca following the BMS our purpose and values.
Approximately 3,600 BMS and Almirall transactions and Amylin employees joined us in Offered customised leadership Acquiring and retaining talent February 2014 following our acquisition programmes through Harvard During 2014, we hired some 9,900 of BMSs interest in the joint diabetes Business School and MIT permanent employees.
Approximately 500 Almirall with roles in, for example, R&D, technical, employees joined us in November 2014 Embedded corporate values into key marketing and management roles, are following our acquisition of the rights to HR processes as part of systematic helping achieve our strategic priorities.
Almiralls respiratory franchise and its cultural change device subsidiary.
Introduced STAR programme to teach To help secure our future, we are identifying emerging talent about enterprise and recruiting emerging talent and investing Passionate about developing leadership in internships and recruitment opportunities employees globally.
For example, we conduct a global Various leadership programmes seek to Significantly improved employee programme to hire recent graduates for our maximise our employees potential.
These engagement according to employee procurement, quality, engineering, IT and programmes, both online and instructor-led, survey results supply chain functions.
We also have a help build the right capabilities and culture Further improved ahead of target graduate programme for IMED, which to deliver our strategy.
lost time injury illness rate performance complements our established IMED Post above 2010 baseline Doctorate Programme for researcher In 2014, we offered a customised recruitment.
programme for our top 150 talent with Harvard Business School and a The composition of our international programme for emerging leaders with workforce changes with our business the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Employees by geographical area % focus.
This can be seen in the Sales and MIT.
Both programmes aim to foster Marketing figures opposite, which show openness, inclusivity and innovation.
Europe 32.7 a concentration in Emerging Markets.
We hope to offer leaders at all levels of the North America 23.5 To attract and retain the people we need, organisation appropriate, globally consistent Central and South we continuously strive to maintain a strong leadership development opportunities.
Middle East and Africa 4.2 Changing our culture Total Asia Pacific 33.5 China 16.9 Voluntary employee turnover increased Each of our values has a corresponding set Japan 4.8 marginally to 8.7% in 2014 from 8.1% in of behaviours.
These behaviours, which are Russia 2.6 2013.
Our voluntary employee turnover rate essential for strong and effective leadership, Other Asia Pacific 9.2 among our high performers in 2014 also apply to all employees and are reinforced increased to 6.8%.
We seek to reduce by complementary accountabilities for 62 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report managers.
During 2014, we embedded To measure progress over the medium Sales and marketing workforce these values and behaviours into key HR term, we also track the countries of origin composition % processes, such as performance and talent of senior leaders and emerging talent.
Responsible Business Council made up 2014 52 48 of senior leaders from across AstraZeneca 2013 53 47 Maximising our talent oversees this process.
For more information, 48 2012 52 To maximise our talent, we focus on please see Responsible Business from 2011 43 57 developing our future leaders from within page 227.
Emerging Markets Established Markets 2010 42 58 and hiring judiciously from the outside.
In each case, we greatly value these Our Insight Exchange programme improvements across all categories for individuals and their skills and support them helps foster diversity and inclusion and which we had a point of comparison for to reach their full potential.
In 2014, we strengthens our pool of emerging talent.
2012, including understanding and belief introduced a new programme for talent This programme, which is now in its in our direction and priorities.
The score early in their career.
The STAR programme, third year, pairs employees from various for recommending AstraZeneca as a great which we offered six times in 2014, teaches locations, levels and functional areas place to work was 82%.
Although the emerging talent about enterprise leadership to work together for one year to facilitate results showed significant improvement in and provides an opportunity to study reflection and learning from diverse employee engagement, we identified two AstraZeneca cases and interact with senior perspectives, viewpoints and experiences.
In 2014, approximately 240 people In 2014, we launched a cohort of 60 to further simplifying the business and participated in our talent development new pairs.
The programmes, which include the STAR second relates to developing our people, programme, Global Talent programme Our progress to improve diversity and where the survey results showed that and the Insight Exchange programme.
inclusion is reflected in the Diversity & employee belief in the existence of Inclusion index.
This index, which is opportunities for career development and We are committed to hiring and promoting reported in our employee survey see personal growth is two percentage points talent ethically and in compliance with Employee engagement below, showed below the high performing benchmark.
Our policies and an improvement of three percentage addition to conducting several employee procedures are designed to help protect points compared with 2012 and, at 80% surveys, we tracked key HR metrics, such against discrimination on any grounds favourable, is three percentage points as retention rates, during 2014 to help including disability and cover recruitment above the global benchmark.
and selection, performance management, career development and promotion, Our efforts were recognised externally.
Performance management transfer, training, re-training including In 2014, the National Association for Female We continue to focus on performance.
re-training, if needed, for people who have Executives ranked us in the top ten of By setting high-quality objectives aligned become disabled and reward.
its 50 leading companies for the sixth with our strategy and performing coaching consecutive year and the Human Rights and feedback analysis, we are able to track Improving the strength and diversity Campaign Foundation named us as a Best performance at every level.
This includes of the talent pipeline Place to Work for LGBT Equality.
We were managers accountability for working To foster innovation, we seek to harness also featured among Working Mother with their employees to develop individual various perspectives, talents and ideas Magazines 100 Best Companies.
It also and to ensure that our employees reflect involves fostering an understanding about the diversity of our communities.
As we Employee engagement each persons contribution to our overall continue to reshape our organisation and its Various global leadership communication business objectives.
geographic footprint, we embed inclusion channels engage employees in our strategy into our strategies.
These channels Our focus on performance is also include face-to-face meetings, video demonstrated through our performanceAs shown in the gender diversity figure conferencing, Yammer a social media tool related bonus and incentive plans and overleaf, women comprise 49.9% of our and regular global and business-specific encouragement of participation in various global workforce.
There are currently four communication campaigns.
employee share plans, some of which are women on our Board 31% and, below described in the Directors Remuneration Board level, women comprise 40.5% We held a global employee census survey Report from page 100, and also in Note 26 of managers at Global Career Level F FOCUS in 2014, as well as two brief to the Financial Statements, from page 179. and above.
pulse surveys across a sample of the organisation.
The results from FOCUS, Human rights Our 2015 target is to improve female which was conducted in 29 languages and We are committed to respecting and representation achieved an 89% response rate, showed promoting international human rights not significant improvement in employee only in our own operations, but also in our at Global Career Level F and above engagement.
Scores increased to 85% wider spheres of influence.
To that end, we the highest six bands of our employee up eight percentage points compared to integrate human rights considerations into population from 38% 2010 to 41% 2015 FOCUS 2012, and only one percentage our policies, processes and practices.
in the global talent pool from 33% 2010 point behind the global high performing to 38% 2015. norm.
The survey also showed AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 63 Strategic Report Resources Review Employees continued We support the principles set out in the employment principles and standards, Gender diversity United Nations Universal Declaration of local laws and good practice.
We work to Human Rights and the International Labour develop and maintain good relations with Board of Directors of the Company 13 Organizations ILO standards on child local workforces and work closely with labour and minimum wages.
We are also national trade unions, where practical.
members of the United Nations Global We also regularly consult with employee Male 69% Female 31% Compact on Human Rights.
representatives or, where applicable, trade unions, who share our aim of retaining key In 2011, we conducted labour reviews in skills and mitigating job losses.
106 countries that focused on ILO core areas, including freedom of association Safety, health and wellbeing and collective bargaining, child labour, We work to promote a safe, healthy and SET 13 discrimination, working hours and wages.
energising work environment in which our We are currently conducting these reviews employees and partners are able to express again and returns so far show sustained their talents, drive innovation and improve Male 77% Female 23% good results.
We also included questions business performance.
on the living wage and are conducting an independent external review so that we can Our targets for 2014, which we set in 2011 assess the global developments in this area.
for the years up to 2015, included Managing change no fatalities Directors of the Companys The number of employees increased lost time injury illness rate per million subsidiaries 332 from approximately 51,500 in 2013 to hours worked of 2.1 57,500 in 2014.
The majority of external 6.1 collisions per million kilometres driven Male 73.5% Female 26.5% hires were recruited into emerging markets.
at least 80% of sites and marketing Others successfully transitioned from BMS companies offer at least five essential and Almirall to support our diabetes and health activities.
We also restructured our business in other areas to increase Our highest priority for improvement efficiencies.
remains driver safety, particularly among AstraZeneca employees 57,500 our sales forces who form the largest For more information on our restructuring group of employees driving on AstraZeneca programme, please see Financial Review business.
We monitor performance centrally Male 50.1% Female 49.9% from page 70 to assess progress and identify areas for improvement.
In 2014, we exceeded our In 2013, we announced plans to invest in annual target for collisions per million three strategic R&D centres, which affected kilometres driven and met our 2015 target employees in the US and the UK.
We regret, however, that an encouraged and supported employees to employee was killed in a traffic accident For the purposes of section 414C 8 c ii of the Companies Act 2006, Senior Managers are the SET, the directors of all of the relocate and have made good progress.
while driving on AstraZeneca business subsidiaries of the Company and other individuals holding For example, more than 400 employees during 2014.
We initiated a detailed named positions within those subsidiaries.
now work at our Cambridge, UK site: of investigation and will develop an action plan these employees, more than half relocated to address the findings of the investigation.
from other sites, such as those in London, We will monitor the actions and share Vehicle collisions Macclesfield and Alderley Park.
Over the learning across AstraZeneca.
next three years, we expect to hire Collisions per million km Year Target approximately 1,000 new employees to Having already achieved our 2015 lost time 2015 5.60 occupy our new site in Cambridge, and injury illness rate target two years early, we 1 2014 5.14 6.10 we are using interim infrastructure in and achieved a further reduction in 2014.
The 2013 6.13 6.60 around Cambridge during the transitional lost time injury illness rate reduced by 17% phase.
For employees who do not accept from 2013, which equates to a 38% overall offers to relocate to Cambridge, UK, we reduction from the 2010 baseline.
provide career and outplacement support.
Lost time injury illness Similar relocation initiatives are underway The 2014 health and wellbeing target was Lost time injury illness rate elsewhere in our organisation, including narrowly missed, with 78% of sites offering Year per million hours worked Target in the US where almost 300 employees at least five activities.
Although this is 2015 1.91 have accepted offers to relocate to disappointing, 91% of sites now offer at least 2014 1.59 2.10 Gaithersburg, Maryland.
four activities, compared with 66% in 2012.
2013 1.88 2.26 1 Further information on AstraZenecas approach to responsible Preliminary figure subject to change.
Employee relations business can be found in Responsible Business from page 227 We seek to follow a global approach to and on our website, www.
employee relations guided by global 64 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014
