Additional Information Additional Information Responsible Business In this section, we describe our approach to Employee safety, health and wellbeing: with eight out of 22 criteria in 2013 including delivering business success responsibly.
promoting the safety, health and wellbeing customer relationship management, risk Summary information about our commitment of all our people worldwide as we and crisis management, climate strategy, and performance in key areas is integrated continue to drive a high-performance talent attraction and retention, corporate into the relevant sections of this Annual culture and the achievement of our citizenship and philanthropy, stakeholder Report, while further information about these business goals see page 64. engagement, and addressing cost burden.
and other areas is available on our website, Working with suppliers: working only with While these scores are encouraging, we www.
suppliers who have standards consistent lost ground in some areas, such as with our own as we increase our corporate governance, marketing practices, Introduction outsourcing to drive business efficiency innovation management, human capital In the Strategy section from page 10, we see page 57. development, social reporting, occupational describe our approach to creating value Community investment: making a positive health and safety, environmental reporting across the life-cycle of a medicine, our contribution to our local communities and bioethics.
distinctive capabilities and our strategy.
around the world, through community Allthese efforts are underpinned by our support programmes consistent with To better understand these lower scores, commitment to operating responsibly improving health and promoting science we commissioned an in-depth external toensure the future sustainability of the see page 65. benchmark survey and the analysis will be Company in a way that adds value for our used to inform our improvement planning.
To that end, our responsible While we monitor performance in each of business objectives are aligned to, and these areas of our business, we have Responsible business governance support the delivery of, our business identified two areas of special focus: access The SET is responsible for our responsible strategy.
Our responsible business to healthcare and the environment.
In each business framework and our Non-Executive framework is the vehicle for managing case, we believe that we have both the Director, Nancy Rothwell, oversees commitments that are agreed across the capability and the responsibility to implementation and reporting to the Board.
Group, taking account of external implement standards that accelerate our stakeholder insights and internal reputational business strategy while delivering wider Senior managers throughout the Group are risk assessment.
accountable for operating responsibly within their areas, taking into account national, The framework encompasses: A core element of our business strategy is functional, and site issues and priorities.
value-creating business development Line managers are accountable for ensuring Bioethics: underpinning our accelerated activity that strengthens our pipeline and that their teams understand the requirements drive for innovation with sound bioethics accelerates growth.
This includes targeted and that people are clear about what is worldwide see page 54. acquisitions.
When we acquire companies expected of them as they work to achieve Access to healthcare: as we expand our we aim to align standards of responsible AstraZenecas business goals.
geographic footprint, exploring ways of business and incorporate the companies increasing access to healthcare for more into the setting of targets and measurement Our Responsible Business Council the people, tailored locally to different patient of performance.
Council is chaired by our Vice-President, needs see page 61.
Corporate Affairs, and members include Diversity and inclusion: working to ensure Benchmarking senior leaders from each relevant SET area.
that diversity in its broadest sense is As expectations of stakeholders evolve, we Its agenda is focused on driving long-term reflected in our leadership and people continue to engage with them and use the value creation by agreeing, among strategies see page 63. feedback to inform the development of our other things The environment: managing our impact responsible business strategy and risk on the environment, across all our management planning.
responsible business priorities for the operations, with a particular focus on Group in line with strategic business carbon emissions, waste and water use We also use the insights we gain from objectives see page 58. external surveys to develop our approach in managing and monitoring the annual Patient safety: maintaining a strong focus line with global best practice.
As a member process of setting responsible business on patient safety in everything we do, of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index since objectives and targets, as well as minimising the risks and maximising the 2001, we were once again listed in the 2014 reviewing performance against KPIs benefits of all our medicines throughout World Index the top 10% of the largest appropriate policy positions to support R&D, and after launch see page 54.
We also retained our our objectives and reputation Sales and marketing: working to listing on the DJSI STOXX European Index management.
consistent global standards of ethical the top 20% of the 600 largest European sales and marketing practices in all our companies for the seventh year running markets as we work to restore growth one of four pharmaceutical companies to see page 61. do so out of 14 assessed.
We achieved a Human rights: continuing to develop and total score of 79% 2013: 85% compared embed a consistent approach to human with a sector best score of 87% 2013: rights across our worldwide activities see 86%.
We increased individual scores for page 63. seven out of 24 criteria for 2014 compared AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 227 Additional Information Responsible Business continued Carbon reporting Global greenhouse gas emissions data for the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 Tonnes of CO e 2 1 2014 2013 2012 Emissions from: 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 325,700 323,400 318,700 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 290,300 274,400 277,100 Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions reported above normalised to million US dollar revenue 23.6 23.3 21.3 Supplemental information: Net electricity, heat, steam and cooling emissions, after write down due to voluntary purchase of electricity supplied under 3 certified low carbon supply contracts or carbon certificates 244,800 238,200 250,800 Supply chain emissions: Upstream emissions from personnel air travel, goods transport and waste incineration 167,900 155,400 169,800 Downstream emissions from HFA propellants released during patient use of our inhaled medicines 448,900 352,000 299,600 1 Regular review of the data is carried out to ensure accuracy and consistency.
This has led to slight changes in the data for previous years.
None of the changes is statistically significant.
The data quoted in this Annual Report are generated from the revised data.
2 Included in this section are greenhouse gases from direct fuel combustion, process and engineering emissions at our sites and from fuel use in our vehicle fleet.
3 S ome electricity supplied to our UK sites has been provided under a green power contract and is backed up with an equivalent quantity of Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin and some of the electricity consumed at our US sites is covered by purchase of Renewable Energy Certificates.
The Council is supported by a Responsible Based on the evidence provided and These sources fall within our consolidated Business Working Group the Working subject to the scope, objectives and Financial Statements.
We do not have Group of SET area representatives.
limitations defined in the full assurance responsibility for any emission sources that Among other things, the Working Group statement, nothing has come to the are not included in our consolidated continuously reviews external issues with attention of Bureau Veritas causing us Financial Statements.
the potential to impact AstraZeneca and, to believe that the responsible business as appropriate, prepares management and information contained within this Annual We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate measurement proposals for the Councils Report is materially misstated.
Bureau Accounting and Reporting Standard consideration.
Veritas is a professional services company revised edition.
Emission factors for that has a long history of providing electricity have been derived from the External assurance independent assurance services in International Energy Agency and USEPA Bureau Veritas has provided independent environmental, health, safety, social and eGRID databases and for all other fuels external assurance to a limited level on the ethical management and disclosure.
and emission sources from the 2006 IPCC following responsible business information Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas contained within this Annual Report The full assurance statement, which Inventories.
includes Bureau Veritas scope of work, Patient safety, page 54 methodology, overall opinion, and limitations Bureau Veritas has undertaken a limited Clinical trials and transparency, page 55 and exclusions, is available on our website, assurance on the 2014 GHG emissions data: Animal research, page 55 www.
the assurance statement including scope, Increasing access to healthcare, page 61 methodology, overall opinion, and limitations Sales and marketing ethics, page 61 Carbon reporting and exclusions is available on our website, Working with suppliers, page 57 The above table provides data on our global www.
Environmental impact, page 58 greenhouse gas emissions for 2014.
Improving the strength and diversity of the talent pipeline, page 63 We have reported on all of the emission Human rights, page 63 sources required under the Quoted Safety, health and wellbeing, page 64 Companies Greenhouse Gas Emissions Community investment, page 65 Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
228 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014
