Strategic Report Our people Our people are our difference.
Its the dedication, warmth and skills of our people that sets Spire Healthcare apart.
We believe that the best service and An effective and consistent patient What good leadership looks like.
patient care comes from skilled staff who experience feedback loop, encouraging Anna Tchaikovsky are fully engaged and feel truly valued by the not only compliments, but also constructive Hospital Director, Spire Leeds Hospital company they work for staff who feel they feedback and complaints, is therefore a make a personal contribution to the success key component of our continuous of their hospital and can genuinely say that improvement culture.
Spire is a great place to work.
The other key component comes from our At 31 December 2014, we employed over staff.
We are committed to developing all 8,000 people over 12,000, including bank our staff, listening to, and learning from, their staff equivalent to just over 7,000 experiences, to help improve nursing care.
full-time jobs split between nursing, All clinical activities are aligned to our theatre staff, allied health professionals, strategic pillars and will be embedded within and administration and clinical support Over its 25 years and one million our job descriptions.
The aim is to ensure staff see opposite.
patients, Spire Leeds has developed an clinical quality standards are understood international reputation for high-quality Our employees are predominantly female and consistent throughout the business.
healthcare across a broad range of 10,113 compared to 2,256 male.
For senior ENGAGEMENT AND VALUES medicine and surgery, acting as the management we employ 27 female We take employee engagement seriously: pioneers for clinical advancement managers out of a total of 65. every year, we invite all our employees to in the north of England.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT complete a survey to provide feedback A large part of that is owed to solid We fully recognise that advancing on how were doing and offer suggestions leadership and, for the past 10 years, quality is dependent on Spire acting about what action could be taken to Anna has been at the helm of the ship, as a learning organisation.
make Spire an even better place to work.
introducing a large amount of clinical The survey comprises 40 questions, which We place the individual patient at the centre expansion and positive change.
are designed to establish how effectively of our business.
This means that increasingly we do this.
well-informed patients are key partners in decision making, able, with the support of their families, carers and consultants, to manage their own health and illness.
We are very much looking to the future, as we continue to develop new services for our patients, maintain our excellent in-patient care and remain at the forefront of medical developments in the region.
Anna Tchaikovsky Hospital Director, Spire Leeds Hospital 42 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our values: Caring is our passion Succeeding together Driving excellence Doing the right thing Delivering on our promises Keeping it simple In 2014, we received 6,171 responses, IMPROVING CAPABILITIES EMPLOYEES INCLUDING BANK STAFF with 76% of those taking part agreeing Investment in our staff is investment for 31 DECEMBER 2014 that they would be likely to recommend the future, ensuring that patients and their Spire Healthcare to friends and family families can rely upon the right staff working as a place to work up from 72% in 2013. in the right place with the right skills to provide high-quality care.
20% Other highlights from the 2014 results included: In 2014, we supported around 100 people through our Management Fundamentals 11% 92% of respondents believe what they 54% programme and 11 future leaders through do at work makes a positive difference our Leadership Essentials programme.
91% in 2013 15% Management Fundamentals is focused 89% of respondents feel that they really fit on developing the people skills of new in with the rest of their team 88% in 2013 Nursing 2,529 managers.
It is designed to build managerial Theatre Staff 1,352 88% of respondents agree that they capability, skills, behaviours and attitudes were proud to work for Spire Healthcare in areas such as employee engagement, Allied Health Professionals 1,852 86% in 2013 performance management, culture, coaching Clinical Support & Admin 6,636 and managing absence.
88% of respondents agree that their manager trusts them to make the right Leadership Essentials is a seven month, DIVERSITY: decisions at work 86% in 2013 four module programme designed to OVERALL EMPLOYEES develop our leaders, building their capability 88% of respondents agree that they can and confidence to engage with, and lead, 2014 2,256 10,113 rely on colleagues in their team to be a successful team to deliver strong business there for them if they need help or support 2013 2,010 9,231 results.
Topic areas, such as managing 86% in 2013 change, creative leadership and managing 2012 1,955 9,260 The annual employee survey results are self, are grounded in specific projects, published in December and each hospital aimed at business growth and showing SENIOR MANAGERS or business unit director is responsible for a return on investment.
sharing the results with their management In line with Spires devolved hospital 2014 38 27 and staff, and agreeing actions to address management model, each hospital assesses any areas for improvement.
2013 31 26 individual staff training needs, taking into The annual staff survey also allows us to consideration both specialty and regulatory 2012 32 21 gauge whether our employees experience requirements and business gap analysis, our values in the way we work.
This is and agrees a personal development plan of significant importance, as seeing an as part of annual appraisals.
Our nurses BOARD organisations values reflected in day-to-day undertake annual training in order to behaviours is one of the four key drivers of maintain their registration.
2014 8 1 employee engagement, as identified in the Male MacLeod report, Engaging for Success, published in 2009.
Female Our values are also central to Enabling Excellence, our performance management and appraisal system, and are part of every T he Group employs bank staff staff who do not work regularly scheduled hours, but are directly employees annual appraisal.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 43
