Strategic Report Corporate social responsibility Spires ethos reflects our care for the environment and our local communities.
Spire is a significant local employer.
In 2014, in excess of 0.5 million on the basis of Spire continued its fundraising activities energy savings, reduced maintenance for charities and local communities.
Typical costs and environmental tax savings.
of the fundraising events undertaken was Spire Leicester Hospital is now our trial site a major 620 kilometre cycling challenge for a similar investment in the upgrade of undertaken over a series of weekends in the internal lighting systems to LED technology.
summer to raise money for Walking with the Comparative data from October, November Wounded and Macmillan Cancer Care.
Led and December 2014 indicates potential by our CEO, Rob Roger, the route went from energy savings of up to 69% are achievable.
Spire Wellesley Hospital in Southend up to Spire Murrayfield Hospital in Edinburgh We intend to invest further in both these across six separate legs, which aimed to areas during 2015 to ensure we continue include as many Spire hospitals as possible.
to reduce our electricity consumption and realise our energy reduction targets.
Caledonian Challenge participated Other examples of corporate and local in by consultants and staff.
community support during the year include: Capital investment in our engineering plant continues to improve energy efficiency.
Spire Hull and East Riding Hospital held Modular condensing heating and hot water ENERGY SAVING OPPORTUNITY their own Grand Depart festivities which boilers were installed at Spire Portsmouth, SCHEME ESOS raised 6,000 for Marie Curie Cancer Care Spire Clare Park and Spire Thames Valley Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive Through various fundraising events, Spire hospitals in 2014, which are expected to requires all Member States to introduce Harpenden Hospital raised 6,500 for local deliver a reduction in gas consumption a programme of regular energy audits and international charities at those sites in future years.
The UK government believes that this programme offers a LOOKING AFTER OUR ENVIRONMENT Our theatre ventilation plant in our hospitals significant opportunity for the UK.
It will We want to take care of the environment ensures rapid air exchange within our theatre help drive the take-up of cost-effective as well as our patients and we continue suites to protect our patients from infection.
energy efficiency measures by participants, to promote a low-carbon culture across By their nature, these systems are energybenefiting their competitiveness and our hospitals.
We replaced ageing systems in contributing to the wider growth agenda.
and targeting of our buildings energy Norwich and Cheshire in 2014, installing consumption takes place through our high-efficiency control and heat recovery ESOS is the governments proposed Energy Remote Monitoring system, which systems that help deliver this critical air approach to implementing this requirement we run with our partners Schneider Electric.
in the most efficient way.
and is a mandatory energy assessment scheme for organisations in the UK that Artificial lighting accounts for a significant Reduced CO emissions is also being achieved 2 meet certain criteria.
portion of electrical energy consumed through the Company car fleet list.
The through the operation of our buildings approved vehicle list is reassessed regularly to Spires audits took place in December 2014, and has been selected as a key area of ensure the most efficient and cost-effective conducted by an approved ESOS assessor, investment to reduce energy consumption.
From a 2010 baseline and the results will be notified to the average of 145 CO g km, the fleet now Environment Agency in line with the ESOS 2 We have installed LED street and car park averages 120 CO g km, a 17% reduction.
The audits were carried out in 2 lighting at 21 of our hospitals, improving four hospitals, one clinic, the NDC and the lighting and reducing energy consumption.
The car choice list has been revised using Reading Finance Office: the expectation Replacing just over 500 fittings has yielded a whole life costing model.
The CO g km 2 is that the ESOS assessments will help Spire in excess of 70% energy savings and Future range on the list is now between 88 and 102, to identify cost-effective measures to save Energy Solutions estimate 10-year savings which will further reduce the overall average energy and money.
44 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 2014 TOTAL EMISSIONS % tCO e 2 23.0% 2.5% 60.0% 14.5% Fuel Combustion: Stationary 10,360 Fuel Combustion: Mobile 1,124 Facility Operation 6,543 Purchased Electricity 27,027 WASTE EMISSIONS SOURCES Alina Carunto The NDC provides the Group with a All material scope one and two emissions Specialist breast care nurse collection service removing cardboard and are included.
These are: Spire Bushey Hospital paper for recycling, which avoids this waste fuel combustion: stationary natural gas, entering into the general waste stream.
diesel oil and mobile vehicle fuel : The success of this scheme has resulted in an increase of cardboard and paper purchased electricity: and recycling by 10%, or 60 tonnes 1 Jan 2014 fugitive emissions refrigeration F-gases, to 31 Dec 2014. medical gases.
Central Purchasing continues to work with There are no known process emissions our strategic waste management partners and no purchased heat or steam.
to help direct general waste that is generated by the Group away from landfill and into METHODOLOGY AND EMISSIONS FACTORS Alina has set up local patient support Energy from Waste EfW facilities.
Over 80% Our figures have been calculated using group Pink Petal Club for women living of our general waste 1,700 tonnes is now the methodology set out in Environmental with breast cancer in North London.
being recycled utilising material recycling Reporting Guidelines ref.
PB 13944, Alina started the group to help women facilities and around 10% of the residue published by Defra in June 2013.
Emissions meet others in the same situation waste is now being sent to EfW.
All the factors are taken from DECC Defras and to provide extra support by having clinical waste generated by clinical facilities June 2014 update.
specialists such as breast surgeons, is now either incinerated or pre-treated and GHG EMISSIONS DATA lymphedema nurses, dentists, the residual sent to EfW.
The GHG emissions for Spire Healthcare nutritionists and hairdressers answer GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GHG for the reporting period January questions on treatment, lifestyle, This section provides the emission data December 2014 were 45,054tCO e. 2 side effects and surgery.
and supporting information required by As this is the first reporting year, no historical One patient said of the club: One of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report comparison is available.
the most amazing afternoons since and Directors Report Regulations 2013, my diagnosis was when I was given Part 7: Disclosures Concerning Greenhouse EMISSIONS INTENSITY the opportunity to talk to other Gas Emissions.
For the purposes of establishing a baseline women who have had similar and ongoing comparison, we are required FOOTPRINT BOUNDARY experiences to me.
to express the GHG emissions data using An operational control approach has been a carbon intensity metric.
used to define the GHG emissions boundary, as defined in Defras latest Environmental The intensity metric we have chosen is Reporting guidelines: Your organisation has revenue.
Spire Healthcares revenue in operational control over an operation if it or 2014 was 856 million, giving an intensity one of its subsidiaries has the full authority of 52.6tCO e per m revenue.
2 to introduce and implement its operating policies at the operation.
For Spire Healthcare, this captures emissions associated with the operation of all our hospitals and other buildings such as clinics, offices and the NDC, plus company-owned and leased transport.
As Spire has no Rob and the cycling challenge team overseas operations, all emissions refer at the start line.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 45 Strategic Report Open to everyone WHERE ARE WE?
Spire Hull and East Riding Hospital PARTNERING WITH THE NHS The long-term collaboration between NHS Hull Clinical Commissioning Group and Spire Hull and East Riding Hospital works so successfully because it is based around a set of common objectives and shared values that put patients at the centre of their care.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Spire hospitals work with local NHS hospital trusts and Clinical Commissioning Groups CCGs to provide specific services and additional capacity for NHS patients.
We are part of the local healthcare economy across the country.
Our hospital directors develop close working relationships with NHS commissioners in order to respond to NHS capacity constraints, local priorities and patient needs.
The chronic pain infusion service featured on these pages, built up at Spire Hull and East Riding Hospital in response to a local CCG request, is just one example.
As Julia Mizon of NHS Hull CCG says, the Infusion Therapy Service is a key example of our collaborative approach.
A clear pain pathway is in place across the local health community led by the pain management team at Spire, which has significantly improved the standard of care for this group of patients.
Our services are complementary to the NHS, but we share a common objective: we are all driven by patient needs.
74% NHS treatments at the Pain Management Unit rise from 2012 to 2014 Investment in additional equipment and the development of a specialist team of pain consultant anaesthetists and nurses at Spire Hull and East Riding Hospital has seen NHS treatments at the Pain Management Unit rise 74% between 2012 and 2014.
