STRATEGIC REPORT 20 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Corporate Responsibility is central to our vision to be an industry leader.
Our established Corporate Responsibility framework focuses on five key areas: Employees, Health and Safety, the Environment, Customers and the Community.
Sports Direct has developed Key Performance Indicators KPIs to ensure we deliver on our commitments.
These KPIs are further discussed in this report and in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review, and are based solely on our UK operations, unless expressly stated.
EMPLOYEES SALARIED STAFF TURNOVER SINCE FY09 The loyalty and dedication of our employees has proven a key tool in the success that we have enjoyed.
We invest in our employees by developing them with high standards of training and structured career progression plans.
The Group requires high calibre individuals who share the Groups ethos.
Nurturing our employees and promoting them internally has been a tool which has been used in the Group for over 30 years.
The success that can be achieved by this method is evidenced by a number of our senior management team.
Our graduate internship programmes, which offer paid internships, permanent roles and payment of university fees, have helped to attract new talent.
Key Highlights: Total employees total Group : 28,000 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Hours invested in training: 50,000 Excludes the recently acquired EAG & SIG The Group also has several policies and systems to in place to ensure employee welfare is monitored and maintained.
These are laid out in the diagram below.
Attracting our People Our Employee Bonus Share Schemes are utilised to attract, motivate and incentivise employees.
We have found that creating a shared goal has improved employee EQUAL OPPORTUNITY satisfaction levels.
& DIVERSITY POLICY We reward the hard work of our employees with Employee Bonus Share Schemes.
Our Employee Bonus Share Schemes are dependant on the achievement of pre-determined underlying EBITDA targets, as well as the satisfactory performance of the individual employees.
The targets for the 2011 Employee Bonus Share TAILORED Scheme are: RIGHT TO A EMPLOYEE TRADE UNION 2012: Underlying EBITDA of 215m - Achieved HANDBOOK 2013: Underlying EBITDA of 250m - Achieved 2014: Underlying EBITDA of 260m - Achieved 2015: Underlying EBITDA of 300m Three out of four of the 2011 Bonus Share Scheme targets have already been achieved, and the fourth target is within reach.
C. 27 million shares in total vested STAFF FORUM under the 2009 Employee Bonus Share Scheme, and a further c. 20 million shares are expected to vest under the 2011 Employee Bonus Share Scheme.
It is important to Sports Direct that all employees are engaged, and that they convey We are committed to employing the best possible people within the Group.
In an a consistent message to customers.
Delivering effective induction training is key effort to achieve this we offer a graduate internship programme.
Inductions are pivotal to the Group, and without these there is a risk that programme offers graduates, covering key areas of the Group, the opportunity employees will not understand compliance issues and policies, resulting in poor to complete projects within the Group and compete for prizes.
The prizes include customer service and lost sales.
10,000 in cash, payment of final year University fees, and the opportunity to work within the Group in a permanent role.
The scheme is paid, with interns working on Recently we have implemented a new, interactive induction programme for all projects similar to those in a work environment.
The programme ensures that we are employees, which ensures consistency and structure in foundation training.
The bringing in new talent and the Group is constantly evolving with new ideas and ways training takes place through e-learning, and compliments the existing face to face of thinking.
This is the first in a planned suite of courses that will cover all aspects of the Companys activities.
The responsive framework is aimed at Retaining our People being accessible on the go, and thus enables the course to be utilised on tablets, Employee satisfaction levels are constantly scrutinised by the Group, with employee smartphones and desktop computers.
retention indicators being reported to the Board in every Board Pack.
The Group are all too aware that retaining experienced employees is crucial to its future success, and we attach a significant amount of weight to this key performance indicator.
During the year 19.2% of our UK employees have left the Group, an increase from 15.5% in FY13.
The increase was expected to occur following the final vesting of the 2009 Employee Bonus Share Scheme.
However the figure remains well below the levels prior to the implementation of the scheme.
29% 17% 17% 17% 15.5% 19.2% SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 21 Developing our People Nike Training The newly developed e-learning programme has also been tailored to re-energise our Sports Direct works exclusively with Nike to offer Nike training and the Nike Graduate existing employees in both the UK and Europe.
The programme takes place through a Scheme.
The robust training programmes offered at our Shirebrook National Training new open-source framework called Adapt.
It is one of the very first Adapt e-learning Facility inform and train employees on product innovation and brand initiatives.
courses, leading the way in this innovative style of training.
We remain a heavy user of Nike SKU Sports Knowledge Underground, and continue Throughout the year we have focused on defining and delivering a competency to be one of the worldwide front runners in terms of percentage completion for framework to drive a more holistic approach to measuring performance and a multiple door retailer.
SKU provides another e-learning opportunity for the conducting our annual appraisals.
This has been supported by the creation of Sports Direct team, which allows the employee to gain some essential foundation Sports Direct Success Factors, which provide the behaviours that lead to great knowledge on Nike products.
performance in individual job roles here at Sports Direct.
They include qualities and The foundation knowledge gained by our employees is taken one step further on skills that help people to be successful and drive our corporate strategy.
More work the many Nike Training days held at the Shirebrook National Training Facility.
The will be done in the coming year to embed the framework into all our people practice, days are hosted by the Nike Experts and extend the knowledge gained from SKU to a from recruitment through to training.
higher level via interaction and involvement.
The Nike Graduate scheme encourages With the introduction of the new competency framework and appraisals, we have in those who attend the training day to transfer their learning to the in-store team.
turn created a new mechanism of identifying and developing our talent across the By doing so the Nike Graduates gain the recognition of becoming a Nike Graduate Group, thus supporting our internal succession planning.
We have also worked on within their store.
developing our recruitment website and processes to enhance our candidate journey adidas and Puma Training from application through to induction.
This ultimately improves our employer brand We continue to work closely with both adidas and Puma to offer extensive training and our capacity to attract the right level of skill, ability and performance to the programmes to support in-store initiatives and products.
The Puma training rooms Group, to support our future growth plans.
at our Shirebrook campus have been utilised extensively since their opening in FY13.
Home Grown is a structured talent management programme which provides The training programmes have continued to support in-store initiatives and product opportunities for talented employees to progress within the Group.
helps to retain talented employees and reduce external recruitment costs.
Following Management Induction Training the successful completion of the programme, exemplary employees will be offered All new and existing store managers have attended a two-week residential induction key positions within the Group.
programme at our Shirebrook Head Office.
The training equips them with the Diversity requisite skills for life in a Sports Direct store, and ensures that they have the Diversity within the Group is an essential asset, and at all times we try to ensure knowledge to perform in conjunction with our highest standards.
The programme that our employees meet the diversity, cultures and values of our varied customer consists of a mixture of shop floor-based training and classroom centred activities.
As the Group continues to expand into new countries and continents, we Typical areas covered focus on merchandising, product training, administration, find that the local knowledge of our employees is an important factor towards our delivery process, Health and Safety, shop opening and closure processes, and retail success.
We aim to develop the skills of each of our employees in order that they all business skills.
have opportunities to progress within the Group.
Management Development Training Our Board currently has a 14% female representation, with further details being Furthering the careers of our employees within the Group has been a key driver shown on page 24.
We are in the process of looking to recruit another female for in our success.
Our internal promotion programme is aimed at employees who the Board, although we consider that the necessary skills and experience are of aspire to progress into operational and managerial positions.
An important part paramount importance, with diversity being of lesser significance.
of the training consists of a five-day residential programme at our Shirebrook campus, which consists of a combination of trainer-led modules.
The modules 29% of our senior management team are female.
While we appreciate that work focus on operational training and the style and behaviour measures that form part could be done to ensure that the figure is more balanced, we are satisfied that the of an employees role.
These cover areas such as communication, leadership, and team possess the appropriate balance of skills and knowledge.
available the necessary level of consideration will be given to ensuring diversity within the team.
Footwear Masterclass Aimed at store managers responsible for the footwear department in their branch, 48.1% of our overall UK employees are female, proving that discrimination the Footwear Masterclass is a three-day residential programme at our Shirebrook for factors including gender will not be tolerated within the Group.
Focusing on one of the key departments in a store, typical subjects covered paramount when we recruit employees and we aim to ensure that both male and include merchandising, staff efficiency, Health and Safety, best practice, and key female candidates are provided with equal opportunities to apply for and work in all policies and procedures.
A breakdown of gender diversity within the Group: Male Female Directors 6 1 Other senior managers 32 13 All UK employees 14,643 13,577 STRATEGIC REPORT 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED HEALTH AND SAFETY Scope 1 GHG emissions are calculated based on the purchased quantities of Sports Direct is committed to appropriate standards of Health and Safety.
Our Board commercial fuels using published emission factors.
Scope 2 GHG emissions are has ultimate responsibility for Health and Safety across the Group, and we regularly primarily calculated from metered electricity consumption and published emission review our procedures to ensure that safety management is robust.
emphasis on training in the business has improved awareness of reporting and CO2 equivalent factors are used which ensures we have reported on all of the emission recording of incidents.
sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Regulations.
Key Figures: Year 2014 No environmental prosecutions or work-related fatalities, however one fire safety Scope 1 CO2e emissions 11,206 prosecution Scope 2 CO2e emissions 64,747 In FY14, 1,419 2013: 1,854 accidents were reported to Head Office, of which 85 2013: 67 were reportable to the Health and Safety Executive Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions Tonnes 75,953 1 80% of accidents occurred in store and 20% were slips, trips and falls CO2e Emissions Tonnes m 36.8 1 Not including non-UK revenue, in line with the CO2e emissions reported ENVIRONMENT We recognise that we have a responsibility to manage the impact our business has on This is the first year of mandatory reporting of this data.
To provide analysis against the environment, and we are committed to reducing this both now and in the future.
We the prior year we have shown comparative data for electricity-related emissions, which continue to comply with the Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment, and have accounts for 83% of our GHG emissions in the current year.
The table below details identified key areas where we can make a difference, in particular energy usage in our Electricity vs. Revenue and shows a pro rata increase of 5.5% across the year.
stores, transport and waste management.
Year 2013 2014 We are continuously aiming to reduce our carbon footprint.
The single most significant element is electricity, which makes up 83% of the footprint.
The carbon footprint CO2e Emissions from electricity Tonnes 52,577 63,393 1 spread across all UK sites is detailed in the chart below.
CO2e Emissions from electricity Tonnes m 29.4 30.7 Electricity vs.
Sales Turnover Index 2012: 100 97.0 101.5 Carbon Footprint Analysis 1 April 2013 - 31 March 2014 1 Not including non-UK revenue, in line with the CO2e emissions reported Waste Reduction Electricity 83% We are actively reducing the amount of waste we send to landfill and segregate waste to ensure that we recycle as much as possible.
Diesel 14% This year we recycled: Other 3% 7,099 units of electrical equipment 2013: 6,425 units 78 tonnes of waste paper 2013: 58 tonnes 9,230 tonnes of cardboard 2013: 8,893 tonnes While the growth of our Company has increased the number of our stores and therefore 147 tonnes of metal 2013: 107 tonnes the absolute GHG emissions, our chosen intensity ratio of electricity-related emissions 558 tonnes of plastic 2013: 508 tonnes per m revenue of 0.9% has increased only slightly from our 2012 base, partly due to the inclusion of a number of newly acquired companies.
All stores now use biodegradable carrier bags and provide the option of a bag for life.
This is actively promoted in-store through high levels of employee engagement.
Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions Reporting 1 Looking ahead, we will continue our commitment to minimise waste and improve Reporting period 1 April 2013 - 31 March 2014 energy efficiency across our stores.
Baseline year FY12 Consolidation Operational control CUSTOMERS approach Customer service is at the forefront of our business.
We aim to provide customers with Boundary summary All UK entities and facilities either owned or under an enjoyable experience both in-store and online and ensure all our products are safe operational control were included.
Emissions from air and fit for purpose.
conditioning and refrigeration units are excluded due to the Monitoring customer satisfaction and responding to queries is a continuous process.
These are expected to be a negligible All written complaints are recorded, including an analysis of the nature of the % of scope 1 emissions.
complaint so that trends can be assessed and appropriate action taken.
Consistency with Only UK companies have been included in this assessment financial statements due to the significant changes and acquisitions in our We have an online customer contact form that reduces the time it takes for our European operations, where the data is currently not readily customers to contact us and increases the volume of contact.
has reduced the amount of time it takes for us to respond to queries thereby increasing our service levels, while reducing the print and postage costs for both the Group and Emission factor data Defra May 2013 customers.
source Assessment The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006.
We are continuously working to improve customer service at all levels within the Group methodology We have used the 2013 UK Governments GHG conversion from the retail stores, Head Office and through to our website.
Materiality threshold Materiality was set at Group level at 5%, with all UK facilities estimated to contribute 0.5% of total emissions included Intensity ratio Emissions per m revenue 1 The emissions declared are for the period 1 April 2013 31 March 2014 to be in line with the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 23 In partnership with Mind Gym, a customer service programme has been developed and Dunlop rolled out to all Sports Direct stores.
The concept of the programme is to engage, equip Dunlop works together with its sponsored professional golfers Lee Westwood and and inspire our employees to serve well and sell well.
The programme has developed a Darren Clarke to supply clothing to their golf schools.
These are junior player Sales Through Service concept, which consists of five main principles STARS : development schemes which provide qualified coaching and mentoring to youngsters.
Over 40,000 worth of clothing has been provided through sponsorship to the schemes so far.
SMILE TALK ASK RECOMMEND SALE Lonsdale Lonsdale is the Official Equipment and Fight Sports Apparel Supplier for all three individual armed services in the UK consisting of the RAF, the Army and the Royal Navy.
The programme has been rolled out to all store managers through a seminar and Product to the value of 10,000 is provided each year and used in competitions.
supporting documents to further the learning experience.
Since its inception we have received positive feedback from those who have attended.
At a grassroots level, Lonsdale is also a sponsor of the Amateur Boxing Associations junior and school boy finals and provides 100 pairs of golden gloves, worth 2,500 to COMMUNITY the finalists.
Supply Chain We are committed to responsible business practices in our own business and within Everlast our supply chain.
We continue to procure merchandise from manufacturers who have Everlast supports a variety of organisations throughout the year, including both sportsproved to uphold ethical employment and trading practices, and we have a strict Code oriented and charitable programs.
A long-standing supporter of the most prestigious of Ethics that we require every supplier to adhere to.
The code provides for the fair amateur boxing competition in the US: the New York Golden Gloves, Everlast is the treatment of workers, ensuring a safe environment in accordance with the local and official fight glove and apparel sponsor.
The organisation celebrated its 87th year in national laws where workers are treated with respect and paid fairly for what they do.
April and for the first time honoured 12 past greats with induction into the inaugural The code also ensures there is no child labour and no use of illegal means or materials Hall of Fame class.
in the production of goods.
Everlast provides support to the Dr. Theodore A. Atlas Foundation, a non-profit We have longstanding relationships with our suppliers who have demonstrated that organisation providing financial assistance to individuals and programs in need with their work practices are consistent with Sports Directs standards.
In 2013, Everlast provided $3,000 to assist their youth programming.
of our current suppliers have been working with the Company for 10 years or more.
Since 2006, Everlast has also served as a proud supporter of The Breast Cancer We have worked with two leading supply chain companies in Singapore and South Research Foundation BCRF.
Each year, Everlast donates a portion of the sale Korea for a number of years.
Using their local knowledge and experience helps benefit proceeds from selected pink products to help the foundation provide funding for the business and the communities in which they operate.
Both businesses have the clinical and genetic research.
Last year, Everlast donated $116,342 to BCRFs research highest social and business ethics code which aligns with our own Code of Ethics, the efforts to find a cure.
BSCI Code of Conduct which is based upon the United Nations Declaration of Human Antigua Group Rights and the Social Accountability 8000 SA8000 Code.
Also in the US, the Antigua Group has been a consistent supporter of a number of Sports Direct relies on those supply chain companies to inspect the premises of all charitable efforts, including: The Salvation Army, Men Against Prostate Cancer, and suppliers and manufacturers.
Frequent inspections are carried out randomly to ensure The Phoenix Childrens Hospital.
that goods meet our quality standards as well as assessing continued compliance with The Antigua Group also provides significant support for Junior Golf in Arizona.
Junior SA8000 and our Code of Ethics.
We cease immediately to work with suppliers who do player initiatives include the Junior Golf Association of America, Girls Golf through not meet our criteria.
the LPGA Foundation and The Antigua National High School Golf Invitational.
We comply with an internationally recognised list of chemicals that are banned for use in fabrics.
The supply chain companies conduct random tests on fabric which are then taken to a recognised laboratory for quality testing and to ensure that banned The Strategic Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of chemicals are not being used.
Directors on 17 July 2014, and signed on its behalf by: Charity Sport is our passion.
We believe that everyone should have a chance to participate in sports and enjoy the health and lifestyle benefits it brings.
We provide a wide range of Dave Forsey Chief Executive equipment and clothing to promote sports participation amongst people of all abilities, including those who would not normally have access to equipment and facilities.
Slazenger Chance to Shine Slazenger is the exclusive cricket equipment supplier to the countrys most recognised grassroots cricket development programme, Chance to Shine supported by Brit Insurance.
Each project provides structured coaching and a competition programme for a group of schools who would not have otherwise had the chance to participate in the sport.
By 2013, the programme had reached one third of all primary and secondary schools amounting to almost 7,000 schools and has supported two million young people, almost half of whom are girls.
Over 600,000 worth of cricket equipment has been supplied by Slazenger to enable the programme to run successfully.
