Strategic Report People, values and the environment The SSE SET of values Safety Sustainability We believe all accidents are Our decisions and actions are preventable, so we do everything ethical, responsible and balanced, safely and responsibly or not at all.
helping to achieve environmental, social and economic wellbeing for current and future generations.
Service Excellence We give our customers service We strive to get better, smarter and we are proud of and make more innovative and be the best in commitments that we deliver.
Efficiency Teamwork We keep things simple, do the work We support and value our that adds value and avoid wasting colleagues and enjoy working money, materials, energy or time.
together as a team in an open and honest way.
Values and responsibilities All employees making a long-term commitment to Culture SSE employed 19,779 people on 31 March 2014, employees, giving them the time to build SSE believes that the behaviours and culture compared with 19,795 in the previous year.
their professional skills and the opportunity of an organisation should be guided by its Fundamental to the Companys success is the to advance their careers: values, and that an organisations values should professionalism and enthusiasm of employees, maintaining a preference for recruiting and be at its core.
SSE has six core values which guided by SSEs teamwork value, which states: promoting from within the organisation seek to bound the behaviour and attitude of We support and value our colleagues and enjoy where possible, while recognising that some its employees and those it works with.
They working together as a team in an open and specialist skills may only be available through are: Safety, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, honest way.
SSE is committed to ensuring that external recruitment: Excellence and Teamwork.
For full definitions it is a great place to work and its policies on taking steps to ensure a balanced and diverse of the values see opposite.
human resources are developed and delivered list of applicants for roles within SSE: in support of this.
ensuring effective succession planning, based The team on a comprehensive annual review process The Board of Directors and Of all employees, 70% are men and 30% are which extends beyond the Board and the the Executive Committee women.
The average age of SSEs employees Executive Committee to other levels in the The Board of Directors is accountable to SSEs is 41 years.
In 2013 14, there was a 9.2% turnover organisation and which features a range shareholders for the good conduct of the of employees, the same as in the previous year.
of options for the development of key Companys affairs.
It is responsible for creating individuals: and and sustaining shareholder value in a responsible Developing and recruiting people recognising that the most effective employees way through the overall management of the Building the SSE team over the long-term are those who are able Company.
In doing so, the Board must ensure During 2013 14, SSE recruited externally a total to maintain a balance between their working that a sound system of internal control and risk of 2,157 people to jobs in England, Scotland, and family lives.
There are a total of Wales, Northern Ireland and the Republic of nine directors including the Chairman on Ireland.
Of the people recruited during the year, SSE is undertaking a value programme to secure The Board, of these six are men and three are 67% were men and 29% were women, with 4% more operational efficiencies.
Full details of How the Board Works who did not specify their gender.
While it was to see a reduction, compared with previous is set out on pages 62 to 66. difficult to find candidates for a very small plans, in the number of jobs across its business number of the jobs, because of the technical and since its launch on 26 March 2014, 600 The Executive Committee comprises SSEs two requirements or location issues, the vast employees have applied successfully for Executive Directors and four of its Managing majority were filled by  voluntary early release and will be leaving SSE Directors.
It is responsible for implementing people in a timely way and SSE remains pleased on 30 June.
Nevertheless, SSE still expects to strategy and policy as agreed by the Main Board with the number of high quality applications employ around 20,000 people in Great Britain and for the operational management of all of that it receives.
The members of the Board are listed on page 60 and 61 and the members SSEs priorities in maintaining and developing the The Living Wage of the Executive Committee are outlined below.
right team of employees are: In September 2013, SSE became at that time the UKs biggest  Living A total of 59 senior managers report to the making SSE a great place to work, therefore Wage employer guaranteeing that all Executive Directors and Managing Directors in retaining engaged, motivated and committed employees will receive at least the Living Wage SSE.
Of these 18 are women and 41 are men.
people and attracting a strong and diverse rate, set at a level which ensures people can number of quality applicants for new roles: cover their basic cost of living, including The Executive Committee The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing the strategy, values and governance set by the Board and for leading the day-to-day Jim McPhillimy Mark Mathieson Will Morris Martin Pibworth running and operations of SSE.
Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Its members are  Networks Retail Wholesale Davies see biography on page Jim McPhillimy is Managing Mark Mathieson is Will Morris is Managing Martin Pibworth is 60, Gregor Alexander see Director, Enterprise.
He Managing Director, Director of SSEs Retail Managing Director, biography on page 60 and joined SSE in 1995 and is Networks.
He joined SSE four Managing Directors: responsible for SSE in 1988 and is responsible in 2012 and is responsible in 1998 and is responsible Contracting, Lighting for SSEs economically for the customer facing for energy portfolio Services, Utility Solutions, regulated businesses in retail business in energy management, generation, Telecoms and business electricity distribution and supply and energy-related generation development, relationship management.
gas production and gas storage.
53 Strategic Report People, values and the environment continued housing, bills, food and travel.
In total, 148 Currently 650 individuals are progressing Programme, Foundation Degree in Mechanical employees in Scotland, England and Northern through these programmes and the Executive Engineering at Aston University and Project Ireland received a wage increase, averaging Committee has agreed an increase in the Management Academy in partnership with around 1,000, as a result of the decision to numbers of participants in these programmes Strathclyde University.
SSE became with the introduction of new training a Living Wage employer because it believes programmes planned for 2014 15.
Employees and the law it is a matter of basic fairness that people SSE has in place a comprehensive range of should get a wage that is enough to cover Performance management policies to safeguard the interests of employees their living expenses and SSE believes in being SSE has in place a wide-ranging performance and potential employees.
Like all responsible a fair employer.
management system, designed to make sure organisations it has an actively-managed equal that employees are able to fulfil their potential opportunities policy, in keeping with the spirit, Diversity and inclusion and contribute as much as possible to the as well as the letter, of the law in the United SSE has a Diversity and Inclusion Working Group achievement of SSEs goals and the delivery Kingdom and elsewhere, designed to ensure fair which focuses on ensuring a diverse mix of in practice of SSEs values.
For this reason, the and equal treatment of employees and potential candidates is attracted for all available job performance appraisal system is focused on: employees across the seven protected opportunities, while helping to build a culture characteristics, as defined in the Equality Act of inclusion so that everyone has the same performance in the past year, including a 2010 sex, race, religion or belief, disability, opportunity to progress regardless of review of performance against each of SSEs pregnancy and maternity, disability, sexual background or personal circumstance.
core values Safety, Service, Efficiency, orientation and gender reassignment.
The Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork : Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 In support of this, an Equality and Diversity key objectives for the year ahead: were incorporated into the Equality Act 2010. e-learning module has been rolled out to all expectations, aspirations and ambitions for There were no occasions during 2013 14 when 2,800 people managers in SSE.
This promotes the year ahead and beyond: and SSE was found to have failed to comply with the creativity and innovation benefits that can be personal development requirements and legislation on equality.
achieved by building SSE teams which reflect a aspirations for the year ahead and beyond.
wide range of skills, thinking styles, personality SSE also runs a policy development group with types and perspectives.
Performance management therefore focuses representatives of its recognised trades unions on the skills and competencies of employees, to ensure that revisions to existing policies and In 2013 14, the diversity agenda was focused which are critical to SSE and to the energy sector development of new policies are discussed and on understanding the skills and employment in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland reviewed with employee representatives prior challenges faced by SSE over both the shortand elsewhere.
Above all, SSE needs to ensure to implementation.
and long-term, and identifying creative solutions the safe and efficient operation of its businesses to address these.
This included looking at and the reliable provision of services to SSE also keeps employees and managers alternative recruitment routes and markets to customers.
updated with key changes to employment policy tap into, structure of working patterns and and legislative requirements through the use acceleration of high potential employees within Training and development of e-learning which has been used to train the business.
Another key focus for the year SSE has three technical and general training managers on the Bribery Act provisions.
ahead was on ensuring that SSEs talent pipeline centres located in Berkshire, Rhondda Cynon and management leadership traits promote Taf and Perthshire respectively.
These Ethical working diversity and inclusion.
centres enable people to train in the types of SSE prides itself on acting with honesty and environment in which they will eventually work, integrity in its dealings within the Company, Youth unemployment providing a realistic experience in a safe and and with customers, investors, regulators and The level of unemployment among 18- to controlled setting.
SSEs newest training facility, business partners.
SSE sets very high standards 24-year-olds has been a particular cause for in Rhondda Cynon Taf, is focused on developing of behaviour and employees are given clear concern as a result of the economic slowdown skills to support the delivery of services in key guidance on best ethical practice through a in the United Kingdom and Ireland in recent areas of energy efficiency and smart metering.
regularly updated Company policy booklet.
Over 1,500 of SSEs employees are aged Training is supplemented by operational under 25 around 1,549 in total.
awareness days, during which best-in-class Engaging employees working practices are demonstrated to Employee participation SSE supports the Barnardos Works programme, employees through detailed coaching and SSE recognises the value in attracting and which aims to give long-term unemployed assessment in operational environments.
SSE retaining an engaged workforce and runs an young people the opportunity to gain has an internal training team which is equipped annual  Company-wide comprehensive waged-work opportunities, to run a range of technical, customer, business survey of employee engagement.
The 2013 training and industry-related qualifications.
Since and management training interventions.
survey, which was open to all employees, had it began in 2008, a total of 105 young people a 92% response rate and showed that SSE has have taken part in the programme with SSE.
During 2013 14, SSE invested 2.5m in an above benchmark employee engagement externally-provided training and development, index of 78%.
In addition, SSE offers a range of structured taking the total to 10m over the last five years.
development programmes suited to the needs This helped to deliver training to thousands SSE shares the details of the survey results with of school leavers, trainees, trainee engineers, of employees.
Training interventions included all employees and publishes and implements graduates and apprentices.
The focus of each the delivery of a number of development detailed business by business action plans based programme is to ensure that those participating programmes run in partnership with selected on the findings of the survey.
gain skills which create sustainable career universities focused on supporting the opportunities that can be used for their future development of employees across the business.
Within SSE, employee participation is benefit and for the benefit of SSE.
This These programmes included Glasgow encouraged through adherence to the sustainable creation of jobs is key to SSE.
Caledonian Business Degree and Diploma Companys Teamwork value and an established 54 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
The appraisal if they are not already in one.
Since 1 March 2013 the lives of people living in fuel poverty.
Energy process for employees, including the senior SSE has automatically enrolled all eligible Action Scotland, Citizens Advice Bureau, Age UK, management team, specifically evaluates employees into a competitive pension scheme: Save the Children and Macmillan Cancer their performance in teamwork, along with currently membership of the GPPP stands Support are amongst the charities to receive performance in respect of SSEs other core at 15,600. a share of money.
The money is being used for values.
Coupled with this is formal recognition a range of projects including training for local of strong teamwork and good performance In addition, in recognition that it operates in a energy champions, energy awards for cancer through an annual employee awards scheme competitive employment market, SSE provides sufferers and a grant scheme for energy the eSSEntial Awards which celebrates success.
a wide range of employee benefits including: efficiency measures.
In 2013 14, 653 employees were nominated for a range of salary sacrifice offerings: access to awards by their peers and managers.
the SSE Extras programme which provides The SSE donation was made possible by the employees with discounts and offers from creation of a retrospective Sales Guarantee In addition to a wide range of internal a range of retailers: and EmployeeCare, a service Fund from January 2008 to August 2013.
The communication media and events, employee which provides counselling during times of need Guarantee, launched in 2011, reimburses any participation in SSE is also encouraged through and a health and wellbeing advisory service.
household customers who switched their internal blogs, interactive online forums, energy supply to SSE after being given inaccurate divisionand subject-specific employee surveys, SSE in the community or misleading information and who was Director-led regional roadshows and the In order to meet its objective of being a disadvantaged as a results.
SSE pledged to Licence to Innovate scheme, established in responsible member of the community, SSE donate any balance of the fund to charities.
SSEs 2007, which enables employees to research, continues to establish close working Sales Guarantee, is the only one of its kind in the review and test-trial new ideas.
relationships with local community groups, industry and it remains open as a safeguard for organisations and charities in the regions in household energy sales.
Joint Negotiating and Consultative Committee which it operates.
With its origins in the north of SSE has a well-established Joint Negotiating and Scotland, central southern England and south Community Funds Consultative Committee JNCC which includes Wales, and with around 20,000 employees SSE operates a leading community investment lay and full-time representatives from four throughout the UK and Ireland, SSE can make a programme, delivering financial support to recognised trade unions.
This company-wide positive impact to hundreds of local a diverse range of community projects near forum meets to consider key employment issues communities.
It manages impacting SSE employees.
This group was over 25 local community funds and a regional responsible for the negotiation of a three-year SSE undertook three main community Sustainable Development Fund, aimed at modernisation agreement which has led to programmes during 2013 14: supporting large-scale transformational a move to performance-related pay, and has projects.
In the last decade over 1,200 introduced a number of employment safeguards Action through SSEs employee community initiatives with grants totalling in return for increased employee flexibility.
volunteering programme, under which over 15 million have been supported.
The JNCC is supported by Joint Business employees are given one day of leave to Committees JBCs which seek to deal with support community initiatives.
During During 2013 14, SSE provided over 5m to key employment issues within each of the main 2013 14, over 8,000 volunteer days were community projects in the UK and Ireland business groups.
given to 740 individual projects in the UK and through these funds supporting initiatives Ireland.
SSE teams supported a wide range of including energy efficiency programmes, local Employee benefits initiatives including: conservation tasks at apprenticeship schemes and new build sporting SSE believes that there is a commonality of wildlife trusts: fund-raising and support for facilities and enabling local infrastructure interest between employees, customers and local hospices: gardening and DIY in schools, upgrades such as rural broadband, path shareholders.
To reinforce that it: sports clubs and community theatres: and networks and lifeline services.
educational workshops for schools and encourages all employees to become and public events: Furthermore in 2013 14 SSE established a remain customers by providing them with Fundraising supporting key partner Sustainable Development Fund in order to energy at a 12% reduction on the normal unit charities such as Mission Christmas, for which support strategic projects in the regions where rate for their tariff, plus discounts on other 9k was raised in cash and a further 1,000 SSE is developing its renewable energy projects.
SSE products and services such as energy Christmas gifts were donated by employees This regionally based fund will be available efficiency installations, central heating and in December 2013, and Sport Relief, for which within any local authority where an SSE wind wiring maintenance and telephone and over 50k was raised in the spring of 2014. farm was constructed after 1 January 2012.
The broadband services: and All funds raised by SSE staff were matched value of the fund may be worth up to 50 provides opportunities for employees to by SSE in order to double the impact for local million over the next 25 years.
The first of these become and remain shareholders in SSE good causes: funds, the Highland Sustainable Development through a Share Incentive Plan and a Sharesave Heritage cataloguing, maintaining and Fund opened in January 2014 and an Scheme.
Employee participation in these preparing for display the SSE Heritage independent panel will grant over 1 million to schemes is now 53% and 40% respectively.
uk, currently regional community projects.
based in Dorset, developing a new 3m visitor SSE believes that all employees should invest for centre at its Pitlochry hydro electric scheme SSEs work with suppliers and contractors retirement and offers pension schemes to all and launching a Perthshire renewables trail SSE depends on an extended team of suppliers employees.
It has been automatically enrolling guide, in order to make the built and natural and contractors for the long-term success of its all new starts into pension schemes since 2005. heritage of SSEs hydro plant and wind farms business.
With its Responsible Procurement The UK governments policy to help those in more accessible to the public.
Charter, it aims to promote responsible practices employment build up a pension through their within its supplier and contractor base and its workplace now requires all employers to enrol In addition, during 2013 14, SSE shared 2.5m aims in this area include: their workers into a workplace pension scheme between eight UK charities working to improve 55 Strategic Report People, values and the environment continued improving contractors safety performance: Nevertheless, SSE is involved in a series of Examples of SSEs responsible and sustainable ensuring employees of contractors working research and development-related activities approach during 2013 14 include: on SSEs sites are paid the Living Wage: and that are closely aligned to its core purpose of reducing the CO footprint.
providing the energy people need in a reliable freezing energy prices for customers 2 and sustainable way.
For example: until 2016: In support of this, SSE has a Supplier Registration continued investment in new renewable System which provides it with information on Networks: SSEs electricity distribution energy capacity.
SSE has invested around suppliers, including categories relating to where opened the sector-leading active network 3bn in renewable energy in the last five years they work on site, data on safety, health and the management scheme on Orkney in advance taking capacity to over 3,000MW: environment and quality.
of wider deployment, and is leading a series becoming Living Wage employer one of smart projects, such as the Thames Valley of the largest in the UK: Continuing the focus on reducing carbon Vision to provide innovative technologies to 40% of SSE employees participated in the emissions, SSE has successfully completed the meet increasing electricity use, that could employee volunteering scheme, donating Certified Emissions Management and Reduction lead to the transformation of key features of 8,000 employee days to local charities: and Scheme CEMARS and encouraged many of its electricity distribution in the years to come: contributing over 4.5m to continued support main suppliers to sign up to the programme.
Wholesale: SSEs renewable energy division for local communities through SSEs has pioneered the development of the community investment schemes.
As a responsible buyer of goods and services, UKs national offshore wind turbine testing working closely with its supply chain to bring SSE has signed up to the Prompt Payment Code facility at Hunterston in North Ayrshire, in about greater social and environmental impacts in the UK, which means it will pay suppliers on partnership with DECC, Scottish Enterprise for local people.
time, within the terms agreed at the outset of and leading turbine suppliers: and its thermal the contract, without attempting to change energy division is a strategic partner in the Integrated reporting payment terms retrospectively and without UK government-approved carbon capture Sustainability is integral to SSEs core purpose changing practice on length of payment for and storage project at SSEs Peterhead and as such it is embedded in the way each smaller companies on unreasonable grounds.
power station, with responsibility for station of SSEs three business segments operates.
Reflecting this, the reporting of SSEs SSE recognises that it has a significant part to sustainability impacts financial and non play in contributing to the economic wellWith a partnership-based approach, focusing financial is integrated throughout this Annual being and sustainable development of the on key issues affecting the energy sector in Report, with full descriptions of the significant communities in which it operates.
It is therefore Great Britain and Ireland, SSE has a practical social, environmental and economic impacts committed to achieving the highest levels approach to research and development that of each business highlighted in the relevant of engagement with local suppliers.
SSEs should secure meaningful outcomes that business overview.
Open4Business portal specifically targets small contribute to meeting its customers needs and to medium enterprises and is an easy-to-use addressing key issues in the energy trilemma.
Increasing transparency platform for local companies to do business Although this report will continue to be with SSE and its core contractors.
The portal is Sustainability integrated, SSE wants to make information about open to potential suppliers in Highlands and SSE has an essential purpose at its core - its sustainability impacts more accessible and Islands and North of England regions.
The providing the energy people and businesses transparent for all stakeholders and over the next Highlands and Islands platform won the need.
SSE has a responsibility to ensure this need 12 months it will establish new ways of Contribution to Supply Chain Development is met in a sustainable way, both now and for the communicating this information.
The first and Award at the Scottish Green Energy Awards in long term.
Sustainability is therefore a guiding most significant of these is a new area on its 2013 along with the Business Excellence Award value and is defined as: website entitled Being Responsible sse.
com for Excellence for Business Service and beingresponsible.
Engagement from the Scottish Council Our actions and decisions are ethical, Development & Industry.
responsible and balanced, helping to achieve This area contains straightforward information environmental, social and economic well-being and relevant case studies that explain how SSE Human Rights for current and future generations.
operates in a responsible way and seeks to make Like other companies operating in the United a positive difference to peoples lives as a result.
Kingdom, SSE is governed by the Human Rights SSEs sustainability value is one of six core values, Over time this area will also include a wide range Act 1998, the aim of which is to give further established in 2006, that influence how SSE of data and KPIs which support SSEs sustainable effect in the UK law the rights contained in the conducts its activities.
approach as well as policy statements covering European Convention of Human Rights.
The key issues such as bribery, diversity, corporate Republic of Ireland, which is the only other state The value guides employees to act responsibly, governance and support for communities.
in which SSE employs people and carries out balancing all three aspects of sustainable operations and investments, is also a party to the well-being environmental, social and In 2013 14 SSE commissioned a major economic ECHR.
It is SSEs approach to comply with the economic with a view to the impact on analysis from  PWC in spirit and letter of human rights legislation and current and future generations.
order to be more transparent about it impacts responsibility for doing so rests with its Executive on the UK, Scottish and Irish economies.
Being responsible report demonstrated, for example, that the SSEs determination to act in a sustainable way is impacts of SSEs activities contributes 9.1bn to Research and development embedded throughout its business operations.
UK gross domestic product and supports SSE is, fundamentally, an adopter of In practice this simply means SSEs businesses 112,000 jobs in the UK economy.
technology, choosing to focus on development, act responsibly, going beyond minimum demonstration and deployment that delivers standards in order to make a positive difference benefits for customers and other stakeholders.
Responding to the IPCC report Transforming the energy efficiency of the UKs intensity of SSEs generation portfolio has also The second in a series of influential reports from homes also remains crucial and SSE remains reduced in 2013 14 partly due to the reduction the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate focused on working with customers to help them in coal output, but also due to the increase in Change IPCC was released in March 2013 and reduce their energy use.
SSE continues to make the renewable and gas-fired generation compared described the impacts of global warming as case that the cost of energy efficiency is more fairly to last year.
SSE pays paid through taxes, not through the energy bill.
close attention to climate science reports like Very low spark spreads for gas-fired generation those from the IPCC.
It knows it has an Greenhouse gas emissions reporting continue to be a feature of the electricity market important part to play in addressing climate During 2013 DEFRA implemented new and so coal-fired plants have, temporarily, change, at the same time as making sure energy greenhouse gas reporting requirements for played a larger part in generating electricity supplies are resilient enough to cope with the large companies listed on the London Stock for customers.
This has resulted in higher than severe weather that may arise.
SSE adopted these new requirements forecast levels of carbon emissions in recent in its Annual Report in 2013 and this information years, but, as evidenced by the reductions seen Taking carbon out of electricity generation in an is included alongside the 2013 14 data below.
in 2013 14, SSEs longer term strategy of moving affordable way is key to mitigating climate to a lower carbon generation fleet weighted change.
Therefore SSE remains committed to In 2013 14, SSE achieved a 15% reduction in its towards gas and renewables means it remains reducing the carbon intensity of its electricity overall Scope 1 gross carbon emissions from its on track to meet its objective of halving the generation by 50%, compared to 2006, by 2020 operations, largely as a result of reduced output carbon intensity of the electricity it generates and is on target to achieve this.
The carbon compared to 2006 by 2020.
com responsible XX Scope 3 total 18 0 18 17 0 17 1 Total emissions 21,729 174 21,903 25,688 185 25,873 Intensity ratios Emissions relative to turnover 716 914 Emissions relative to MW output 572g kWh 659g kWh Notes 1.
The figure for generation emissions adjusts the figure from SSE-owned generation to include energy bought in under power purchase agreements.
The figure corresponds to the contracted position set out elsewhere in the report see pages 32 to 39.
It includes emissions from generation plant in Ireland from the date of acquisition.
Scope 1 comprises generation, operational vehicles, sulphur hexafluoride, fuel combustion, gas consumption in buildings.
Scope 2 comprises distribution losses, electricity consumption in buildings and substations.
Scope 3 comprises business flights, rail journeys and car miles and losses associated with the electricity consumption in Scope 2.
Scope 2 and 3 numbers for 2012 13 restated to reflect changes in DEFRA reporting guidelines 6.
Emissions intensity is calculated against generation emissions, rather than total emissions.
GHG emissions from SGNs activities are not included here.
Those emissions are reported in SGNs annual report.
GHG emissions arising from the losses across the SHETL owned transmission network are not included since the network is operated by National Grid Company.
The figures have been assured to the CEMARS standard by Achilles Group Limited, consistent with ISO14064-1 and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
By order of the Board Vincent Donnelly Company Secretary 20 May 2014 57
