S St tr ra at teg egi ic c R Re epo por rt t Sustainability overview An overview of sustainability We have an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable business Making a Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible difference Service Provider Operator Developer Employer to peoples Doing more to provide Producing and delivering safe Going further than we have Ensuring SSE is a great place essential services reliably and secure energy in the best to, for the benefit of local to work lives by being and affordably way we can stakeholders responsible Energy prices frozen UKs largest generator Maximising local A major Living Wage in all that until 2016 of renewable energy contracts and employer Freezing our prices until We produce more renewable We were the largest company we do.
employment at least 2016 is the longest energy than anyone else in in the FTSE to become a Living Through our award winning unconditional energy price the UK from the most diverse Wage employer in September Open4Business online portals commitment ever made.
2013. we ensure local businesses To find out more visit XX get their fair share of contracts http: www.
com #1 Customer Service Committed to reducing and jobs.
350 apprenticeships responsible Our customer service has our carbon emissions created been voted the best of the Connecting new We have committed to reduce We employ almost 20,000 major energy suppliers by the carbon intensity of our renewable generation people across the UK U-switch for eight years generation by 50% compared including 350 apprentices Investment in our networks running and is backed by to 2006 levels by 2020. and technical trainees.
allowed us to connect over the industrys only customer 250MW of new renewable service guarantee.
Working hard to keep the generation in the north of Job stability Scotland last year.
During times of organisational lights on 24 hours a day Committed to energy change, we have committed During Christmas 2013 over efficiency that anyone affected will have 1,000 SSE employees were Through the ECO scheme we the opportunity for re-training working to restore power helped improve the energy or redeployment.
to over 600,000 customers efficiency of around 85,000 affected by the winter storms.
Our business has an essential purpose at its core In practical terms this means we work hard to providing the energy people and businesses make sure the lights stay on, energy costs are need to go about their daily lives.
We have a affordable and the environmental impact of responsibility to ensure this need is met in a producing and distributing energy is kept to a sustainable way, both now and for the longminimum.
Only by achieving this will we meet term.
Sustainability is therefore a guiding value the responsibilities we have to our customers, for SSE and has been for many years.
We define employees, communities and shareholders.
our sustainable approach as: Our determination to act in a sustainable way is embedded throughout our different business Our actions and decisions are operations.
For us it is simply about being ethical, responsible and balanced, responsible in all that we do.
Doing what is helping to achieve environmental, expected of us and going beyond this whenever social and economic well-being we can and making a positive difference to peoples lives as a result.
for current and future generations.
Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible Community Buyer Profits Investment Governance Member Procuring what we need in the Earning profits that serve Focusing on the long-term Transparent about doing right way a purpose what is right Proud to be playing our part Setting high standards A reasonable margin Investing over 4m A well governed 8,000 days donated to Our responsible procurement Our average margin from per day in new energy company UK charities charter aims to ensure all supplying energy to our SSE is committed to the infrastructure More than 40% of our our suppliers act ethically, customers was less than 3% highest standards of Weve invested more than we employees participated in sustainably and within the law.
last year less than many Corporate Governance.
made in profit for each of the our employee volunteering other essential service providers.
programme last year Shared values Award winning donating a total of 8,000 One of the most We use our own CEMARS Over 3.7bn invested remuneration days to charities in the UK accreditation to help our significant tax payers and Ireland.
in renewable energy disclosure suppliers achieve best in the UK Our investment has added SSE has received the Building practices in reducing resource Our businesses paid 431m Investing in over 1,700MW of new Public Trust Award, twice, use, waste and emissions.
renewable energy capacity for the transparency of its communities in the last seven years.
executive remuneration Last year our community Paying suppliers An essential reporting.
benefit schemes contributed promptly component of Real economic impact over 4.5m to local We have signed up to the BIS Code of Business communities near our We contributed over 9bn of UK savings and Prompt Payment Code and renewable energy projects value to the UK economy in Practice pension funds aim to pay all our suppliers and over 15m has been 2012 13.
Our Code of Business Practice within 30 days.
90% of the top fund invested in the last 10years.
makes clear to everyone management companies working in SSE the importance in the UK receive dividends of doing the right thing.
