Directors' Report Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee SHEAC Report The Committee advises the Board on safety, health and promote the health and well-being of people working for SSE: and environmental matters including policy, targets and strategy encourage effective environmental for improved performance.
Managing SHE matters in SSE To effectively manage SHE risks SSE needs Members and meetings both rigour in systems and passion to make them work.
This is achieved through the Independent implementation and rigorous application of nonExecutive Member Attended dedicated SHE Management Systems, and Members Director since scheduled through a positive safety culture based on fairness, trust and co-operation.
Thomas Thune Andersen Committee Chairman Yes Mar 2009 6 6 Jeremy Beeton, Non-Executive Director Yes Jul 2011 5 6 SSEs fundamental principles are that SHE risks Sue Bruce, Non-Executive Director Yes Sept 2013 2 3 are best managed by those who create and work with the risk and that everyone has their part to Jim McPhillimy, Managing Director, Enterprise No Nov 2008 6 6 play.
To meet this challenge every employee, Paul Smith, Managing Director, Generation No Nov 2008 6 6 every supervisor and every manager will need to fulfil their responsibilities for their safety, the Mark Patterson, Group SHE Manager No Jan 2013 6 6 safety of others and that of the environment.
Successful delivery of SSEs behavioural safety programme, The Safety Family, reinforces this.
Role Its goal is to protect the health and safety The SHEAC advises the main Board of SSE of all employees, contractors and protect SSE safety performance and works alongside the Safety, Health and the environment.
This ensures there is strong The SHEAC carefully monitored SSEs safety Environment Committee SHE of the Executive SHE leadership within SSE, including an performance during 2013 14.
The results in Committee, which implements SHE Policy active commitment from the Board, and key areas were as follows previous years within SSEs businesses.
The SHEAC is the integration of good SHE management performance in brackets : responsible to the SSE Board for: with business decisions.
the Lost Time Reportable Injury Rate AFR ensuring that SSEs SHE Policy, including Policy was 0.049 per 100,000 hours worked 0.052 : the Major Accident Prevention Policy, People in SSE have many different working the Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR is adhered to: environments from full-scale industrial covering Lost-Time, reportable and medical setting Group SHE targets and strategy for processes to offices but the SHEAC is clear treatment injuries was 0.115 per 100,000 improved performance: that the Company expects everyone to play hours worked 0.136 : monitoring Group SHE performance against a part in achieving safe working practices.
the number of dangerous or potentially targets: dangerous road traffic incidents involving SSE encouraging greater awareness throughout SSEs Safety Management System focuses employees driving Company vehicles was SSE of the importance of SHE management on five Ps: 0.245 per 100 vehicles 0.163. and higher achievement in SHE performance: providing a link between the non-Executive Policy: defining how things get done: Two of the most common measures of safety Directors of the Board, the Executive People: helping employees to act safely: performance, AFR and TRIR, improved slightly Committee and other members of the Processes: managing risks and delivering compared to 2012 13.
When viewed against management team with responsibility safe systems of work: long-term trends there have been significant for SHE management: and Plant: maintaining the integrity of plant and improvements in performance of both AFR and making recommendations to the Board equipment: and TRIR.
Whilst noting the slight improvement in where action or improvement is needed.
Performance: managing and improving 2013 2014 performance the SHEAC welcomed SHE performance.
the continued focus on the three Priorities for Composition and meetings 2014 2015 set out below to maintain an overall Sue Bruce joined the Committee on Value, goal and priorities improving performance trend.
appointment to the Board in September 2013.
In SSE, safety is the first value: we believe all Sue provides experience and knowledge of the accidents are preventable, so we do everything There was an increase in the number of serious public sector to influence improvements in SSEs safely and responsibly or not at all.
incidents involving employees driving Company SHE performance.
vehicles, reverting to the performance levels The SHEAC endorses SSEs overall goal: work experienced in 2011 2012.
Whilst SSE has The Chief Executive attends when required.
To meet this invested in systems to monitor driving habits The Assistant Company Secretary is Secretary goal the SHEAC, and SSE as a whole, will retain and performance in Company vehicles, to the Committee.
The current membership a healthy level of challenge until the highest a specific improvement project for driving of the SHEAC is set out in the table above.
levels of SHE performance are met.
behaviour has been identified for 2014 2015.
The SHEAC met six times during the year.
The SHEACs priorities are to: SSE utilises positive leading indicators of SHE performance throughout its business to set The SHEAC provides a forum for non-Executive support progress towards SSEs ultimate goal targets and improve performance.
This includes Directors to contribute to improving SSEs of working without anyone getting injured: measures specifically designed to monitor SHE performance.
improvements in the management of process 68 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
Directors' Report 3. safety risks and SHE critical maintenance of To help focus on the management of plant and equipment.
environmental risk, SSE has adopted additional performance measures for the classification SSE operates High Impact Risk plant and of environment-related incidents for both SSE process and the safe operation of these and contractor operations.
In 2013 14 for SSE processes remains an enduring goal.
As there were 34 minor, six serious and one major Committee Chairman, I visited SSEs gas storage environmental incident s : for Contractors the facility in East Yorkshire and was impressed by comparable numbers were 28 minor, 6 serious the sites genuine focus on asset integrity and and no major.
The one major SSE incident the management of process safety risks.
related to the leak of sulphur hexafluoride SF6 gas from a circuit breaker at an electrical Contractors safety performance sub-station SF6 is a greenhouse gas that The safety of contractors working on SSE contributes to global warming.
There were no projects and sites is fundamentally the environmental enforcement notices issued responsibility of their employers but remains during 2013 14. a significant issue for SSE.
The SHEAC believes SSE must work closely with its contractors in Good environmental stewardship involves continuously improving the safety standards.
on-site energy efficiency and waste management.
A key goal is to minimise waste SSE adopted a new combined performance and unnecessary use of natural resources measure during 2013 14 for SSE Contractor TRIR by re-using and recycling materials.
During performance to emphasise behavioural safety.
2013 14, the recycling and recovery rate for In 2013 14 the joint TRIR was 0.200 compared SSEs internal waste collection and management with 0.227 in 2012 13. process including office waste and scrap metal from SSEs facilities decreased to 95.8% 97.8% SSEs contractors TRIR was 0.421 per 100,000 in 2012 13.
The recycling and recovery rate hours worked, compared with 0.504 the previous fell slightly in 2013 14 as an external waste year.
It is pleasing to note the improvement in facility for producing refuse derived fuel was contractors safety performance and this follows unavailable in Scotland for part of the year.
the commencement of a programme to engage with this group in 2013 14.
Priorities for 2014 15 The key priorities for 2014 2015 are: In 2013 14 SSE developed a business-wide SHE specification for all contracts and has embed The Safety Family, by completing commenced the roll-out of-Signature Practices the delivery of safety coaching enhanced and an SHE Charter.
Signature Practices behavioural safety training for all supervisors define how SSE and contractor partners across SSE: will work together to keep people and the manage high-impact risks, such as asset environment safe.
integrity, process safety and major accident hazards: and Health promotion improve contractor SHE performance, SSEs Health and Well-Being Action Plan by completing the engagement across all provides the basis for workplace health businesses with the SSE Charter, Signature programmes and initiatives, all designed to Practices and the SSE SHE Specification.
SSEs policy is to deal with sickness absence in Thomas Thune Andersen a sympathetic and constructive way, helping Committee Chairman people make a speedy return to health and to work.
During 2013 14, the average number of days of sickness absence from work was 8.3 days per person, compared with 9.6 the previous year.
Environmental management SSEs main environmental impact is generally regarded as emissions of CO associated with 2 electricity generation.
See greenhouse gas emissions reporting on page 57.
In addition the focus remains on meeting permit conditions associated with SSEs operations and minimising the impact of operations and projects in environmentally sensitive areas.
