17 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Sustainability report Marketplace At SSP, we are committed to responsibly We are committed to providing quality products and services to our managing those environmental and customers, and to ensuring the safety and sustainability of those products, and of the supply chain behind them.
social issues which have been identified as material to our business.
We believe Our customers We want to ensure that our customers receive great service from that our commitment to sustainability all of our staff at our units.
Since January 2014 we have been also makes good business sense and tracking customer feedback through our global digital platform Eat on the Move which allows customers to tell us their thoughts our approach is designed to support via their smart phones or other devices.
Our current customer the Groups overall commercial strategy.
satisfaction levels are high, standing at 4.5 out of 5.0 in the UK and 4.3 globally and this is an area where we continue to work towards Accountability for sustainability is further improvement.
integrated into our management As a leading food and beverage provider, we have a responsibility structures, with a named member of the to ensure that we offer our customers choice and include healthier Executive Committee responsible for each options as part of our product range.
We focus our work on SSPs own brands where we have control over product ranges of the four elements of our programme: and customer messaging.
One example is our Camden Food Co.
Marketplace, People, Environment and brand which offers customers a naturally healthy option with its freshly sourced, natural food, and also provides information on Community.
The Group Board regularly product ingredients and nutritional values.
We continue to trial reviews progress on the implementation healthier options within our other own brands, such as wraps at Upper Crust.
In addition, we ensure that our staff receive regular of our strategy.
training on key issues such as allergens and food intolerances, so that they can provide the advice and information our As a newly public listed company, we customers need.
recognise the importance of reporting Sustainable and ethical sourcing on our sustainability performance to We are working to ensure that the products we sell are from sustainably managed sources and that the people producing these give our stakeholders the opportunity to goods are fairly treated.
This report Our Code of Conduct, which is aligned to the Ethical Trading provides a summary of our sustainability Initiatives Base Code, outlines the standards we expect our suppliers to work towards.
We ask all new suppliers to sign up to this Code activity.
More detail, together with and we constantly work with all of our key suppliers to ensure that relevant policies, will be made available they understand what we expect of them.
We monitor animal welfare standards in our supply chain to ensure In the year ahead, we intend to build on that the meat we use is produced in line with good practice and is fully traceable.
In the UK we use only British dairy products and eggs, our sustainability reporting by including and we recently won a Compassion In World Farming Good Egg more performance data around our Award for our Rail Gourmet on-board catering.
We have also made progress addressing sustainability issues in our drinks ingredients, sustainability KPIs.
with the majority of the coffee which we source in our European own-brand operations now Rain Forest Alliance or Fair Trade certified.
In addition, we use GreenPalm Certified palm oil in our cookie dough at Millies Cookies.
18 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Sustainability report continued In the year ahead, we will continue to train both our purchasing Disabled persons teams and our key suppliers to ensure that our minimum sourcing Applications for employment by disabled persons are always standards are clearly understood and set clear improvement fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant objectives around key products, including coffee and fish.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group Responsibility to our people continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy Our staff are at the heart of our business success and we are of the Group that the training, career development and promotion committed to providing a positive, non-discriminatory, accessible, of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of healthy and safe working environment for them, as well as other employees.
ensuring that we invest in our staff to enable them to reach their Health and Safety full potential.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety for our colleagues and our customers at all times.
All staff Staff engagement and recognition complete regular training on health and safety issues, and we We engage staff in our business strategy, and also our sustainability monitor performance against key safety performance indicators, initiatives, through regular briefings and our social collaborative with annual reports reviewed by the UK Board.
In the UK, staff can provide feedback to us via the Your Shout forum and can also send their ideas straight to the Chief Executive Officer.
We also partner with the Retail Trust, Environment who offer our staff a confidential helpline where they can discuss There is a clear link between good environmental management any concerns they have.
and greater operational efficiency and we continue to look for opportunities to reduce the environmental impacts of our Our Youre a Star award provides an opportunity to recognise operations.
In the majority of our locations, we do not purchase excellent performance, and every team member has an individual utilities or services ourselves, so we continue to work with our clients login to Celebrate!, our online recognition tool allowing them to to improve data collection and find efficiencies.
send an e-badge to a colleague to recognise great performance.
Line managers can reward excellent performance with Celebrate!
Global GHG emissions data points that individuals can use to make a purchase of their choice.
Tonnes of Percentage of CO e carbon footprint 2 Learning and development 11,026 15% Scope 1 emissions We provide clear opportunities and support for progression, Combustion of fuel and operation of through apprenticeships, mentoring and award-winning training facilities programmes.
In the UK, 663 employees joined ourapprenticeship 62,052 85% Scope 2 emissions programme in 2014.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Our training and development programmes are tailored to meet Total 73,078 the needs of the individual, their team and the operating business.
Through our affiliation with Coventry University, we have aligned Intensity measurement our programmes for unit managers and above with the University Total emissions reported above so that employees will be able to eventually attain an SSP bespoke normalised per of turnover 40.0 grams foundation degree in leadership, as they work through the various levels and roles.
In addition, our web-based learning management Scope and methodology system, SSP Academy, offers over 6000 training programmes and We have reported on all of the emission sources required under has over 10,000 active users across the Group.
the Companies Act 2006 strategic report and Directors report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated Equal opportunities and diversity financial statements.
This data covers the continuing activities We expect all our employees to be treated with respect and we aim undertaken by our retailing operations worldwide.
The report does to provide a working environment in which all employees can realise not include a year-on-year comparison, as this is our first annual their potential, free of harassment and discrimination in any form.
We have a comprehensive Equality and Diversity Policy and provide training and guidance to all staff to ensure their understanding and The methodology applied to data gathering and analysis is compliance with this policy.
We also monitor the diversity of our consistent with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting workforce, collecting data at Board and senior management level, and Reporting Standard for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and the aswell as for all staff.
DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines, including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance.
A full documentation Employees by gender of the methodology used, including collection of data from Male Female worldwide operations, exclusions of any non-material emission Board of Directors 86% 6 14% 1 sources, emission factors used and assumptions made is available Senior management 76% 116 24% 36 upon request.
All staff 45% 13,035 55% 15,741 19 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Reducing our carbon footprint Community investment The electricity and gas used to light and power our units represents We are committed to making a positive impact on the communities a significant cost to the business, as well as being the primary source we work in by providing employment, and through supporting local of our carbon emissions.
We are closely reviewing our energy use suppliers and charities.
across our international portfolio to both improve the quality of We work with clients and other partners to reach out to young consumption data and look at opportunities to reduce consumption.
people and help them develop their skills.
One example is our In our European business, we are replacing much of our existing partnership with The Princes Trust at Luton Airport recruiting lighting with more energy efficient LED alternatives.
At the same disadvantaged young people into work experience and permanent time, we are providing training on energy efficiency to our staff so jobs.
We also work with Manchester Airport Groups Academy and they can play their part in helping us meet our objectives.
the UK government to offer work experience and pre-employment We work closely with our suppliers to reduce the air miles and fuel skills training.
usage associated with our products.
A recent project with Coca-Cola In the UK, we partner with a different national charity every three has enabled us to cut out almost one million food miles each year years, voted for by our staff.
We support that charity by raising through simple changes to delivery patterns.
We have also been able money for them through fundraising activities and customer to reduce the fuel use associated with the transport of our bottled donations.
Our current partnership is with Cancer Research UK and water by reducing the weight of the bottles.
we have raised over 200,000 this year.
As part of the fundraising, many of our UK teams took part in the Race for Life and a wide Reducing our waste to landfill range of other fundraising initiatives.
As well as raising valuable Reducing waste makes good business sense as well as good funds, the partnership is also helping raise awareness of cancer environmental sense.
We have a number of programmes to reduce prevention among our employees.
our waste, for example we have been recycling our used vegetable oil across our global units since 2006.
We are working with one We want to make a positive contribution to the many communities of our key clients, Network Rail, to reduce our waste in the UK, in which we operate.
We do this through work with a wide range including a trial to recycle coffee grounds.
We are also reviewing of local charities which our customers and staff are keen to support, some of our disposable packaging, including a trial of reusable offering gifts in kind, helping to host events in our units, or providing delivery crates in the UK with our main fresh produce supplier.
In the coming year, we will work to capture more of this activity so that we can begin to report the total value ofour community investment activity.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Kate Swann Chief Executive Officer 26 November 2014
