Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report During the year the Committee Chairman spent time with UK Bus employees 8.1 Introduction from Helen Mahy, Chairman to gain further understanding of health, safety and environmental processes of the Health, Safety and Environmental in that business and undertook a rail industry strategic safety management Committee training programme.
Committee members attend meetings of the Safety Committees of individual business units from time to time.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities by recommending Group policy in these areas and monitoring The Committee Chairman attended an Executive Board Safety and compliance with the Group policy.
I was pleased to welcome Will Whitehorn as Compliance meeting of the South West Trains-Network Rail Alliance to see an additional member of the Committee in September 2013.
The Committee first-hand the benefits of working with Network Rail on safety issues and also has benefited in particular from Wills experience with, and insights into, the visited Clapham Junction to review the crowd management measures and rail industry.
train despatch arrangements being implemented at the station.
The Committee Chairman met with UK Bus management to see the bus based In order to formulate and monitor the Groups policies, I believe that it is park and ride facility recently constructed at Halbeath.
The Committee important to involve a range of contributors from the Groups businesses and Chairman was also presented with the plan for delivering the transport to ensure that the members of the Committee actively engage with those provision for the 2014 Ryder Cup to be held at Gleneagles.
This highlighted businesses to help the Group to evolve its health, safety and environmental the safety risks and other challenges which the team will face during the strategy over time.
By bringing contributors together at its meetings, the delivery.
Committee aims to share knowledge between the Groups businesses and to challenge its business managers and safety advisers to promote sustained The Committee allocates time in its agendas to receive detailed briefings on improvement over time.
areas of specific interest or concern to it.
During the year, presentations were received on a range of topics, including the challenges inherent in dealing The safety and security of our customers, our people and others is with the increasing number of rail passengers using rail infrastructure, the fundamental to our business.
Public transport is the safest way to travel and lessons that could be learned from the July 2013 Spanish rail crash in which health and safety is at the top of our agenda.
the Group had no involvement but was nevertheless interested in lessons to be learned, the formulation of the Groups environmental targets and strategy over the next few years, and employee health initiatives being undertaken by the Groups divisions.
The Committee reviews the Groups analysis of health, safety and Helen Mahy environmental risks and its strategies to address those risks.
The Committee Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators across the Group as 25 June 2014 well as information on significant incidents involving the Group.
Key performance indicators are provided and reviewed in respect of each major operating division.
Training, where relevant, is provided to the Committee on 8.2 Composition of the Health, Safety and health, safety and environmental matters.
The Committee liaises with the Remuneration Committee in determining any health and safety objectives to Environmental Committee form part of the Executive Directors personal objectives.
The membership of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is Members of the Committee review entries for the annual Stagecoach summarised in section 5.9.
Champions Awards, which reward employees for excellence in the areas of The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee safety, environmental, community, health, customer service and innovation.
are available on the Groups website at http: www.
com media Files S StagecoachGroup Attachments about .
pdf 8.3 Operation of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Committee considers health, safety and environmental risks, mitigations and issues across the Group and reports to the Board on these matters.
The Committee also approves the Groups overall strategic safety framework.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants, where required.
Executive management is responsible for ensuring that local health and safety policies and procedures are consistent with the overall framework.
Managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the Committee, providing the Committee with an opportunity to question and challenge management on health, safety and environmental matters.
As incidents occur, the Committee, aided by the safety management teams, is able to analyse those incidents and learn lessons to further improve the Groups safety processes.
The Committee and its members visit operational locations to observe health, safety and environmental management in practice.
During the year, the members of the Committee visited the Groups Supertram business and were able to gain insight into the challenges for employees operating trams in Sheffield city centre and on the challenging terrain of the wider Sheffield area.
