Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 27 Employees.
There is a strong pool of talented people in the business.
The success of the Group is a direct However, given the scale and pace of current and anticipated result of the knowledge, skills, drive, future growth, in early 2014 the Group embarked on a passion and enthusiasm of its people.
This included mapping out Since its earliest days, the Group has future business and talent needs, documenting the skills and created and maintained an environment experience already in place, raising the level of debate on where individuals can flourish and fulfil talent amongst senior leaders, and building a talent plan to support future business requirements.
The relocation of the UK logistics operation unfortunately People are at the heart of the SuperGroup business and resulted in the closure of two distribution centres in bring the Superdry brand to life: from the innovative products Gloucestershire.
However, it is pleasing that 64 employees they create through to the service excellence they provide chose to make the move and transfer to the new distribution to customers.
To deliver continuing and improving value for centre in Burton upon Trent.
A number of colleagues elected shareholders, the Group must engage its people in its plans to take redundancy and were supported in achieving NVQ and ensure that the right individuals are in place, combining qualifications prior to the closures, alongside comprehensive the right mix of skills and experience to deliver growth.
training in CV writing, interview and job hunting skills support.
Having welcomed German and Spanish colleagues this In the UK, the Governments pension auto-enrolment year, SuperGroup now employs in excess of 3,500 people changes were implemented and, following a comprehensive including part-time colleagues across the UK and Europe.
communication campaign on the value of investing in pensions, This is set to grow in the coming year as the Company only a handful of employees opted out of the pension scheme.
embarks on initiatives to deliver further growth.
Diversity The management team is developing tools to equip people Equality and diversity are fundamental values supported by with the skills to drive SuperGroup forward and offer them SuperGroup.
The Group has an equal opportunities policy rewarding careers.
Sharing in success is something that is and takes its responsibilities under that policy seriously.
valued and, for a third year, employees have been offered In addition, the Group gives full and fair consideration to the opportunity to join the Sharesave scheme please refer to applications for employment by disabled people.
In the event page 109 for further details.
of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made This year, the Group has continued to build a pipeline of to ensure that their employment with the Group continues future talent, attracting new people to the business and and that appropriate training is arranged as necessary.
developing those already on board.
An intern sandwich placement programme has been introduced, customer The Group believes in respecting individuals and their rights in service training has taken place in all stores, language skills the workplace.
With this in mind, specific policies are in place training in Spanish, German and French has been offered, covering harassment and bullying, whistleblowing and equal management skills training for store and head office managers opportunities.
SuperGroup employees represent a wide and has been made available, together with ongoing support for diverse workforce from all backgrounds, sexual orientations, professional education and qualifications and a successful nationalities and ethnic and religious groups.
With continued leadership development programme.
The Group remains a overseas expansion, the workforce is becoming more diverse.
very attractive place to work and, during the year, received The Group respects cultural differences and actively seeks to more than 100,000 applications and recruited in excess of learn about them in each territory in which it operates.
1,200 temps to support Christmas 2013 peak trading.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 28 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Employees continued.
The Board recognises the benefits of encouraging diversity The Group is committed to increasing the participation of across all areas of the Group and believes that this contributes women at the Board and senior management level.
As to SuperGroups continued success.
All appointments are illustrated in the table below, more than half of the Groups made based on merit and are measured against specific total employees are female: objective criteria including the skills and experience needed for the position.
Male Female Total No: % No: % No: Group Board directors 9 90% 1 10% 10 Executive Committee 7 70% 3 30% 10 Senior managers 14 61% 9 39% 23 Other Company employees 1,459 44% 1,891 56% 3,350 Total employees 1,482 44% 1,901 56% 3,383 The Nomination Committee has continued to consider the Policies and procedures are reviewed regularly to ensure they merits of boardroom diversity including gender.
However, are robust and continue to further improve health and safety all Board appointments are made on merit against objective standards across the Group.
This, along with the ongoing criteria rather than aiming to achieve an externally prescribed training programme for stores and head office employees target.
At the start of the year, 11% of the Board was delivered by the health and safety team, has ensured that the composed of women.
This is now at 10%, with the recent reportable accident rate remains extremely low at just four for appointment of Hans Schmitt in May 2014. this Period.
A number of women have been appointed to senior Employees are encouraged to report any health and safety management positions during the year, including the Group concerns they may have either internally through the General Counsel, the Head of International Retail, and the escalation procedure or via the independent whistleblowing Group Financial Controller.
The Executive Committee is hotline.
No reports or calls regarding health and safety have currently composed of 30% of women, having started the been made in this financial year.
Substantial investment continues to be made in protecting employees and customers across the Group through the Human Rights installation and upgrading of physical security and fire The Group is committed to upholding all basic human rights detection systems, and the appointment of a dedicated and welcomes the implementation of the United Nations Operational Risk Manager to support the European territories Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights.
in conjunction with the existing health and safety team.
Health and Safety Looking Ahead The Group recognises the importance of health and safety and Looking ahead, the focus will be on how the right talent is is fully committed to providing a safe and healthy environment sourced, together with a strategy to develop people ahead for its employees and customers.
of the business growth curve.
There will also be an effort to engage people further by encouraging employees to develop A risk management process including monthly inspections, their careers with SuperGroup.
annual auditing, and trend analysis is followed to identify hazards or increased risks within the Group and ensure that mitigating controls are effective.
