Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 29 Corporate Responsibility.
The global nature of the clothing industry Responsibility in the Supply Chain has a significant impact upon communities Building responsibility into supply and the natural environment worldwide.
chain expansion SuperGroups objective is to ensure that this impact is as positive as possible.
When one of the key outerwear suppliers in China needed The Groups corporate responsibility programme is designed to: to move factories in 2014, SuperGroup assisted with the expansion plans.
respect workers in the supply chain: drive environmental sustainability improvements: By helping to set up production lines, human resources systems and health and safety processes from the support the communities SuperGroup interacts with: and outset, the factory can better improve worker welfare and ensure the welfare of employees.
The Group recognises that this approach is not only beneficial to stakeholders but also contributes to the economic SuperGroup continues to focus effort on improving safety sustainability of the business itself.
and fairness for all workers in the factories that manufacture.
The Group believes that it has a responsibility to ensure that Governance suppliers comply with local and international legislation and Commitment to corporate responsibility comes from the most recognised standards of best practice.
senior level in the business.
Susanne Given, Chief Operating Officer COO, has overall accountability for Group All suppliers are required to acknowledge in writing the corporate responsibility and sponsors its strategic direction SuperGroup Ethical Trading Code of Practice the Code and objectives.
Based on the conventions of the International Labour Organisation ILO, the Code of Practice sets out A corporate responsibility operations team reports directly to the minimum standards expected from suppliers and their the COO and is responsible for delivering and reporting on the employees.
The Group regularly undertakes audits and Groups objectives.
This team works with departments across reviews of factory performance against the Code of Practice the business to identify opportunities for operating in a more and works with suppliers to improve working conditions.
Financial year 2014 saw a number of improvements in the Risk way SuperGroup manages ethical trading in its supply chain: Issues pertaining to corporate responsibility are reviewed collaboration was a key theme.
within the Groups internal control and risk management processes.
Ethical trading issues in the supply chain are Collaborating with experts considered a principal risk to the business and are reviewed in accordance with risk management protocols.
SuperGroup continues to benefit from membership of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI.
This organisation allows the Group to learn from trade unions and non-governmental organisations NGOs as well as other brands, on how to address ethical trading issues.
The Group strengthened its internal team to assist with improving supply chain conditions.
More regular joint factory visits by both the ethical trading and production teams has helped reinforce SuperGroups message regarding responsible sourcing.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 30 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Corporate Responsibility continued.
A new supplier review and risk management programme The SuperGroup Environmental Policy, sanctioned by the Chief was launched during the fourth quarter of FY14.
This enables Executive Officer, is principally responsible for committing the the Group to regularly review supplier performance across a Group to reducing: range of indicators including: greenhouse gas emissions: quality: energy consumption: and critical path deadlines: and waste generation.
Through adopting this policy the Group anticipates that it will Ethical trading metrics form a key part of each review and drive down underlying energy costs and will help mitigate the enable the Group to consider safety and fairness in its risk from future energy commodity price fluctuations.
Waste textiles SuperGroup will continue to work on improving ethical trading standards through collaborative measures.
Prior to the end 13.59 tonnes of waste textiles from SuperGroups UK of the Period the Group launched a long-term capability design and sampling teams was recycled in financial year building programme with a selection of key factories.
This co- 2014. funded programme uses local experts to assist factories in making human resources, health and safety and productivity Garments or materials that are no longer required are improvements, ultimately resulting in a more effective supply securely taken off site and shredded.
these textiles are recycled for use in other industries such as rags for the cleaning industry or as car insulation.
Highlights: Introduction of a new Ethical Trading Terms of Engagement document to further clarify what working conditions are Automated meter reader expected in the supply chain.
179 audits and site visits were conducted in the Groups supply chain factories.
In 2014 SuperGroup completed an automated meter reader AMR roll-out programme.
These smart meters have been Development of all angora wool products were suspended in December 2013 to establish whether suppliers are introduced into 74% of Superdrys UK stores and buildings, operating in accordance with the Groups Animal Welfare providing accurate and near real time energy data.
At the report date no further use of Angora wool is allows the Group to both proactively and reactively manage planned.
its energy costs within an energy management programme.
This project has also led to the trial of a building management Creating Environmental Value system in energy intensive stores that has seen energy use in those stores reduced by 10% on average.
Clean, green renewable energy The Group continues to participate, alongside other major In FY14 85% of SuperGroups UK electricity was generated brands, in the Governments Sustainable Clothing Action Plan by renewable energy sources.
group to help improve the sustainability of clothing across This is delivered in partnership with a renewable energy the retail industry.
This year, for the first time, SuperGroup supply company and supports local, cleaner energy collaborated with Made-By, a fashion-focused sustainability generation from Cornish solar, Scottish wind and Welsh non-governmental organisation to measure and benchmark hydro power schemes.
the carbon, waste and water impacts of the entire Superdry clothing range.
Reducing environmental impact is a key element of the Groups corporate responsibility objectives.
The economic sustainability of the business requires the Group to consider the environmental sustainability of its operations and products.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 31 Carbon Emissions Methodology The Group has measured its operational and wider carbon The Group has reported on all of the emission sources footprint for the past four years, providing insight into where required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report the largest climate impacts are and to prioritise resources and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
fall within the consolidated financial statements.
SuperGroup does not have responsibility for any emission sources that are Global greenhouse gas GHG emissions for the not included in the consolidated statements.
Data has been period 5 May 2013 to 6 May 2014 prepared in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and Tonnes of CO e emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion 2 Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
Emissions from: 2013-2014 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 321 Recognising Communities Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 26 mile adventure challenge purchased for own use 7,439 Emissions per m of revenue 18 In September 2013 SuperGroup employees entered a gruelling 26 mile run, cycle and canoe challenge FY14 CO by emission source % 2 alongside other retail brands and raised 22,363 for CARE International projects.
Electricity consumption 95.9 Gas consumption 1.2 Company owned vehicles 1.4 Refrigerant leakage 1.5 During 2014, Superdry360, the Groups charity and community support programme, was launched.
Superdry360 is a platform for charitable projects supporting the local, national and international communities in which SuperGroup operates.
In FY14 Superdry360 made donations to a number of charities including The Princes Trust, Cheltenham Design Festival and Care International.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
