Strategic report Corporate Social Responsibility At Synergy Health, we recognise the importance of within the Group.
We continue to utilise an internal social Corporate Social Responsibility 'CSR', and understand media platform to communicate Company achievements, that we have an obligation to run our business in a our daily challenges, insights into the different business responsible and sustainable way for all our stakeholders.
units, and access to thought leadership across the We are committed to upholding the highest professional business.
and ethical standards and we encourage and support all Diversity our people in having a positive impact in everything they Our policy is to recruit the best available people who are do, whether it is in the workplace or the local community.
aligned with and embody our core values of innovation, We recognise the importance of managing day-to-day accountability, achievement and integrity, and these activities in a responsible way, being accountable for the valuesapply throughout the Group regardless of seniority impact of all operational activities on the environment and ofposition.
Synergy is committed to equality, judging on those around us, and creating a working environment applications for employment neither by race, nationality, inwhich our colleagues can ourish.
Our regional teams gender, age, disability, sexual orientation nor political bias.
incorporate CSR within their roles and responsibilities.
We passionately believe that our future success is We categorise our CSR efforts into the following three areas: dependent on attracting and retaining people from a Caring for our people cross-section of our communities, and in doing so we willcreate competitive advantage for Synergy.
Our recent Caring for tomorrow growth in Asia and the Americas has helped diversify our senior leadership community.
Caring for our stakeholders We promote a supportive and inclusive culture for all our Caring for our people employees and third party business partners.
However, Employee training and development wealso recognise that there is a need to create the right Our success is based on being able to attract, develop environment to support our diversity strategy.
The senior and retain talented people at every level of the organisation.
leadership team continues to look at developing our We have a proven track record of developing careers and business to improve its attractiveness to new recruits, helping employees full their potential.
This provides an aswell as to provide support networks for minority exciting environment for ambitious people and is central groupstopositively support their personal development.
Our approach is focused on developing and enhancing the leadership and Our values management capability of the entire organisation.
Achievement We believe our success comes from our focus on exceeding expectations and our commitment to Synergy continues to invest in its Graduate Programme, go that extra mile, however small the difference may seem.
Our graduates perform a variety ofroles over a two-year period, and report to a senior Accountability We take personal responsibility for our manager to ensure they receive the necessary development.
actions and are equipped to take the right course of action.
A number of employees in senior and middle management Integrity We believe that the way we work is as important positions were recruited through this programme.
We care deeply about the quality of our Employee engagement work and inspire trust by delivering on promises.
Regular two-way communication with our employees Innovation We achieve the best possible results by is vital in ensuring that we all share common goals and working with customers to develop new ways of solving values, foster innovation, and deliver service excellence.
We have a number of systems in place that enable us to understand the opinions of our employees.
Our annual employee engagement survey is a useful tool for feedback, and we also hold employee forums and works councils Healthcare4Africa Synergy Health donated over 120,000 bottles of ASSURE hand sanitisers to Healthcare4Africa, a UK-based charity involved in the delivery of medical aid to people in great need.
This donation has been distributed to regional hospitals and local health posts in Ghana.
Mr Leonard Torsu, a Director of Healthcare4Africa, said this donation will make an important contribution to improving the public health of the beneciaries.
Simple steps to improve hand hygiene can make a significant impact in reducing the spread of infection.
We hope to build a long lasting partnership with Synergy Health, working together to support African healthcare needs.
38 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ethics Quality management Our ethics policy can be found online at: www.
Synergy Health is heavily regulated by international synergyhealthplc.
com investor-relations code-of-ethics healthcare standards and our facilities are certied to the applicable standards by internationally recognised Notied Caring for tomorrow Bodies across all regions.
Regulatory bodies such as the Synergy is committed to taking reasonable actions to US FDA and MHRA routinely inspect us, and all our minimise the risk of adverse impact on the environment facilities across all regions have implemented effective from our business.
As a consequence of the services we quality management systems, maintained by full-time supply to the healthcare market, the demand for energy quality professionals.
We take pride in the level of in our business is high: however, we continue to reduce compliance we achieve, and this is valued by our hospital carbon emissions and our environmental impact per unit customers and the many multinational healthcare medical by striving for greater energy efficiency.
device manufacturers that use our services.
Energy and carbon reduction We have a pool of technical expertise within our Synergys utility consumption has decreased by 0.5% in the management team, and we harness this expertise using past year, due to our continuing focus on energy efficiency.
technical working groups so that we can continue to develop There has been a reduction in electricity consumption of and improve our Quality Management System.
In addition, 1.08% and a reduction in gas consumption of 0.34%.
this expertise can be called upon to help nd solutions for There has been an increase in the use of oil but this forms customers in relation to the processing of their products.
only 0.56% of total energy consumed by the Group.
During the year we have introduced two major computer Total MWh in thousands software systems in our AST and HSS business units, which will improve the quality of our systems and enhance 2013 2014 our service offering.
Gas 177,802 177,194 Electricity 70,037 69,281 Financial responsibility Oil 1,317 1,376 We expect our shareholders to receive fair reward for our Total 249,156 247,851 business performance.
We demonstrate cost leadership and carefully manage our own and our customers costs.
Our initiatives in this area include: We manage financial risk systematically and communicate Energy efficient lighting for new and existing installations: our financial performance in a clear, concise manner.
Securing fair reward for our shareholders allows us to invest Heat recovery and ash steam recovery systems: in the future of the Group, reward our investors, and satisfy our suppliers and lenders appropriately.
Voltage optimisation technology at pilot sites in the UK: Installation of combined heat and power technology at a As a public company we proactively communicate our number of sites, with feasibility studies running at others: financial performance and future expectations in a clear and concise manner.
Managing this ow of information Exploring solar power generation in the UK as an helps ensure that we are valued fairly in the market.
We alternative energy source to reduce purchased energy understand the importance of maintaining relationships and our carbon footprint.
with the financial community that are built on trust, including with investors, analysts and the financial media.
Data on the Groups carbon emissions is shown on page 72 We seek investor feedback throughout the year, both of the Directors report.
informally through our investor relations team, as well as Transport pollution through investor roadshows and one-to-one sessions with Our delivery network is important to the service we offer our CEO and CFO.
our customers, especially where we directly serve hospital customers.
Each of our facilities has an objective to provide Our next Annual General Meeting, to be held on 23 July our logistics services as efficiently as possible, reducing the 2014, will provide an opportunity for shareholders to raise impact of vehicle pollution.
To achieve this, we continued questions to the Board.
We will continue to communicate our programme to electronically monitor driver fuel regular formal updates during the course of the year, efficiency, and we have broadened our focus on route including final and interim results, interim management management, improving efficiencies.
Caring for our stakeholders Our business depends on healthy relationships with customers, business partners and suppliers.
We build and nurture strong relationships that are mutually beneficial.
Our policy is to recruit the best We make sure that we understand the needs of the people available people who are aligned we deal with, so that we can anticipate their requirements and always aim to exceed their expectations.
with and embody our core values Our relationships with our customers grow through delivering of innovation, accountability, service excellence, open and honest communication, and achievement and integrity.
Our success in this area is demonstrated by the long-term relationships we have fostered with customers around the world.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39
