10 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Our people Empowering our employees Our people are at the heart of everything we do, Diversity from R&D and manufacturing to sales and logistics.
Total Male Female We rely on every employee to help create our culture Board 9 9 and drive the business forward.
Senior management 23 19 4 Employees 2,138 1,746 392 The organisation has almost doubled in size over the past five years and we understand that it is important to maintain consistency in our approach and goals to ensure the continued success of our business and 37% 2,138 people.
In 2014, we implemented our Core Values Employees Total Group programme which defines the qualities and characteristics that we would like to see in ourselves, in emerging employees our colleagues and our business.
The values were created through consultation with staff from across markets the Group.
A range of aspects and topics which were deemed important to a successful business were discussed and formulated into six values: leadership, decision making, communication, diversity, teamwork and performance.
These values were seen as all contributing to and enforcing our commitment to Safety, Health and Environment SHE.
These values, when fully embedded, will create focus and empower our employees to develop their own skills and work together towards common goals across the business.
240 Employees working in innovation Strategic report Excellence Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 11 Excellence Growth Sharing operational excellence In 2014, Synthomer began a review of operational performance through the Synthomer 2015 programme across Europe.
The aim was to challenge areas of reduced efficiency and share operational best practice throughout the European facilities.
A team of Synthomer staff worked extensively with an external consultant visiting each of the European businesses to find areas where efficiency or production improvements could be made.
The review highlighted a number of areas at each site where improvements could be made.
The recommendations included streamlining procedures and workplace standards as well as defining competency models and training schemes to ensure our people have the right knowledge to manage our operations effectively.
Although quick-win changes have already been made, the Synthomer Operational Excellence team is continuing to support local management teams in transforming their operations and implementing further improvements.
The team has already spent time at our three sites in Germany and will be working with the management of the other European sites over 2015.
In addition, the programme is now planned to be rolled out in Malaysia in 2015 and 2016.
Elsewhere in Europe, we are continuing the development of our staff with great successes through the Cogent Gold Standard programme in the UK at our Harlow and Stallingborough sites.
The Cogent Gold Standard is a framework of continuous professional development which sets out the skills and competencies required for top level performance in key roles within the manufacturing and chemical industry.
Within Synthomer, the framework is now used to ensure all manufacturing staff possess the level of skill and knowledge to carry out their roles to the high standards we expect in our business.
