TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Sustainability review Helping make Britain better off through digital inclusion, environmental sustainability and stronger communities Our Community Brighter Basic sets out our belief that its not just The judges were our Chairman, Sir Charles Dunstone, the UKs Digital about the money.
We believe that innovative digital communications Champion, Baroness Lane Fox, and the editor of the Daily Mirror, can improve our society and environment and make Britain better off.
They crowned Scott Freeman of the Cybersmile Foundation as the national TalkTalk Digital Hero 2013 and awarded Our strategy is to help make our community a brighter place by him a 10,000 prize.
Scott was recognised for his outstanding work motivating our people, our customers and supply partners, developing the Cybersmile Foundation, the UKs first dedicated andbycreating innovative products and services that empower cyber-bullying charity.
The category of Young Digital Hero, open to ourcustomers.
anyone under 18, was won by Chelsi Jade Beale.
This important and coveted prize awarded Chelsi 4,000 funding for her project, which Child internet safety provides computer training and support to elderly residents living in Households and businesses are connecting ever more devices to the sheltered accommodation.
internet, and we want to empower our customers to protect themselves Ambitious about Autism from security risks and inappropriate content.
We offer HomeSafe, This year we continued our support for long term partner Ambitious which automatically protects every device on a home broadband about Autism, the national charity for children and young people with connection, free with all our Consumer broadband packages.
They provide services, raise awareness and understanding, HomeSafe is built into our network and prevents users from reaching and campaign for change.
Talk about Autism is their safe, friendly, sites in categories they deem inappropriate.
It is also capable of online community where affected families can share their experiences, automatically blocking access to sites that are believed to harbour get support and help others to understand the condition.
We raise viruses or other security threats.
HomeSafe was the first of its kind in funds for this worthy cause and its online platform through the the UK and has now been activated by over 1 million TalkTalk customers.
TalkTalk Digital Heroes Auction every November, where FY14 saw In FY13, we tailored a similar service specifically for Business customers atremendous 300,000 generated FY13: 220,000. called WorkSafe.
This service is free with all Business Broadband and Superpowered Fibre Business Broadband services.
Apps for Good One of our Digital Heroes Foundation hero projects chosen this year As well as offering our customers the safety they deserve online, we is the charity Apps for Good, which works with schools to teach young have also trained colleagues on internet safety so they can help their people to create mobile and social apps to solve problems that matter local communities.
We supported Safer Internet Day through our to them.
Like us, they believe in the power of using the internet to partnerships with F-Secure, the UK Council for Child Internet Safety make our communities a better place.
As part of our partnership, we and Mumsnet, and we hosted internet safety workshops at various fund four schools around our sites to run the Apps for Good course UKOnline Centres in London and Irlam.
and we sponsor an awards category in their annual awards.
Over In FY14, we announced that we are joining forces with other ISPs to create 6,000 Apps for Good students enter to compete in six categories and fund a new multi-million pound campaign aimed at parents, to sponsored by TalkTalk and others including Barclaycard and BlackBerry.
raise awareness of how to tackle issues including cyber-bullying and Code Club access to adult content online.
This new joint venture, Internet Matters, Code Club, our second annual hero project, connects primary schools will also inform parents about whole-home parental controls like with volunteers who want to run a weekly after school coding club for HomeSafe, helping them make the right choices for their household.
Code Club provides the lesson structures for the volunteers and the aim is that after two years of the course, every Digital inclusion child will be able to build their own website or app themselves.
Claire Launching the TalkTalk Digital Heroes Foundation Sutcliffe, the co-founder of Code Club, was our national Digital Heroes TalkTalk passionately believes that the internet makes Britain better Award winner in 2012. off and that no one should be excluded from all the benefits that it hasto offer.
Since 2011, TalkTalk has been supporting and celebrating TalkTalk Digital Champions various projects, charities and individuals who are using digital The Digital Champions programme was launched last year as part of technology at a very local level to make a positive social impact.
our wider employee community scheme, Give Something Back, which gives all employees paid time off to volunteer and fundraise for good In November 2013, TalkTalk decided to take this one step further causes.
Working with UK Online Centres this year, we have trained over andlaunched the TalkTalk Digital Heroes Foundation.
Through the 50 employees across the UK to become TalkTalk Digital Champions.
Foundation, we aim to better support TalkTalks community initiatives, Our Digital Champions are matched with their local UK Online Centre, including the annual TalkTalk Digital Heroes Awards, our annual Digital so they can pass on their basic online skills to help more people get Heroes Auction as well as two annually elected hero projects.
We will online and enjoy the benefits of the internet.
Since the programme also engage our people in supporting the work of the Foundation was launched we have now fulfilled over 60 volunteering opportunities through volunteering opportunities as part of our Give Something in UK Online Centres across Britain.
TalkTalk Digital Heroes Awards 2013 Environmental sustainability We continue to run our flagship annual awards in partnership with Greenhouse gas emissions charity Citizens Online and the Daily Mirror.
The awards aim to reward This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas and celebrate individuals, nominated by their communities, who use emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report digital technology in the most socially positive way at a very local level.
and Directors Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations from This year we awarded over 70,000 in grants and prizes to twelve activities for which the Group is responsible.
18 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 Our internal tracking also shows that our approach is working, as Environmental sustainability continued despite growing the network in line with customer usage and volume, Reporting year we have improved energy intensity for the third year running: Our reporting year is the same as our fiscal year, being 1 April to 31March.
This greenhouse gas reporting year has been established to align with tCO e Gb 2014 2013 2011 2 our financial reporting year.
1 2 Energy, transport and hotels 91 145 317 Global greenhouse gas emissions data 1 Primarily electricity, but also some natural gas and back up generator fuel.
2 Includes rail, air and car travel.
For the year ended 31 March 2014: 100% renewable electricity Emissions from: Tonnes of CO e 2 All of the units of electricity consumed by our NGN, offices and UK Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 1,999 call centres come from renewable sources.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 15,711 Sustainable forestry We display FSC and PEFC certification marks on the envelopes of our Companys chosen intensity measurement: consumer direct marketing and bills, recognising our decision to source Emissions reported above, normalised to tonnes of CO e per average gigabit of bandwidth tCO e Gb 24 paper from certified sustainable sources.
In fact, where possible, we 2 2 replace printed materials with an online equivalent.
ThisAnnual Report Average gigabit of bandwidth for the year ended 31 March 2014 is 746Gb s. is printed on certified 100% recycled paper.
Community investment Total CO e by emission type 2 During the year, the Group was responsible for generating 640,800 2013:517,700 of income for registered charities, including 340,800 Combustion of fuel and 11% ofdirect cash donations 2013: 283,200.
The Group did not make operation of facilities any political donations inthecurrent or prior year.
Electricity, heat, steam We focus primarily on providing time and money via engagement with andcooling purchased three key stakeholder groups: forown use 89% Engaging with our supply partners In November 2013, TalkTalk hosted our fourth annual fundraising auction on behalf of Ambitious about Autism.
This year we re-focused as theTalkTalk Digital Heroes Auction: an evening to celebrate Organisation boundary and responsibility TalkTalk Digital Heroes and benefit Ambitious about Autisms exciting We report our emissions data using an operational control approach digital project, TalkTalk about Autism to align with our overarching to define our organisational boundary, which meets the definitional sustainability strategy.
Our supply partners were invited to attend, requirements of the Regulations in respect of those emissions for with many donating unique lots for the auction.
Engaging with our customers We have reported on all material emission sources, which we deem We continued three customer driven cause related fundraising ourselves to be responsible for.
These sources align with our operational initiatives established last year.
control and financial control boundaries.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are beyond the boundary of our The first was our commitment to donate to Ambitious about Autism operational control.
for every call made to our UK directory enquiries number: 118 111.
Methodology Our second initiative continued to reward customers who return to We have used the main requirements of the Department for us routers that have been diagnosed as end of life.
We pay for the Environment Food & Rural Affairs Defra updated greenhouse gas postage, refurbish or safely recycle the equipment and then donate reporting guidance, Environmental Reporting Guidelines, issued by 1 to charity on their behalf.
Defra in June 2013: data gathered to fulfil our requirements under Our third initiative is a donation to the charity Cool Earth when theCRC Energy Efficiency Scheme: and emission factors from the customers added our unique Global Minutes Boost option to Department of Energy & Climate Change Defras 2013 update.
Cool Earth is the only charity dedicated The Groups journey to improve carbon efficiency began in 2011 when toprotecting endangered rainforests through engagement our Chief Executive Officer set our objective: to reduce our CO emissions withindigenous communities, one of the most effective ways 2 intensity, in tonnes of CO equivalent per gigabit tCO2e Gb, by 25% tominimise CO reaching our atmosphere.
Engaging with our colleagues The scope of emissions captured by this objective is more wide The Groups Give Something Back initiative includes Company ranging than those required to be disclosed as part of the Regulations.
donations for our people who raise funds for a registered charity.
The scope is extended to include CO emissions from all sources Hundreds of our people took part in fundraising over the year.
2 including those for which the Group is not directly responsible including, for example, commercial flights.
Other achievements We retained both our FTSE4Good Index membership and Carbon Saver Gold  inthe year 19
