Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014 People We have an ambitious approach to engaging with our employees.
Wehaveprotected anddeveloped our uniqueculture, expressed in our mission to Make Britain better off and the values by which we do this, ourBrighter Basics Customer, Innovate, Value, People andCommunity In FY14 we again saw a significant increase in employee engagement, We believe in our employees being users of, and advocates for, akeycontributor to our success as a business.
In FY14, we continued to offer free home phone, broadband, fibreand TV, as well as half-price mobile packages.
Leadership development Employee consultation One Voice forum We recognise that the quality of our managers is vital toour future success and we have continued our commitment to leadership One Voice is a consultation andinformation forum consisting of development through our ongoing programme Leading a Brighter 80nominated employee representatives, management and Business.
A total of 550 of our managers have now completed members of our People Services team.
The forum meets regularly fourpartsof the modular programme and are demonstrating todiscuss how the key issues we face as a business might affect measurable improvements in leadership capability.
The programme ouremployees and to discuss relevant employee matters.
Employee communication Employee engagement We communicate with all employees on a weekly basis via TeamTalk, Our engagement survey and action plan enable us to listen and respond anewsletter that incorporates various updates from across the to our employees and help us to create and sustain an environment business.
The weekly blog from Dido Harding continues tobepopular where they are motivated, stay with us and enjoy working for TalkTalk.
with employees, allowing forcommunication and feedback on topical issues inthe Group.
Following our first survey in December 2011, we committed to specific actions that would enable higherlevels of employee engagement.
In June 2013, we brought every UK-based employee together for a Theannual survey wasrepeated in January 2014 with greater participation oneday conference, following which 87% of attendees said that they 92% vs 89% in FY13 and a 6% increase in the overallengagement score.
had a better understanding of TalkTalks strategic priorities.
Wehave repeated this event in May 2014.
Employee performance and development The Wire We have continued to build toolstosupport employee development.
TalkTalkU isouronline hub for all learning and development and includes In FY15, we will be introducing a new intranet site, which we see as a critical extensive face-to-face and eLearning options.
It has nowhad over communication and collaboration tool for the business.
It will enable 30,000 visits from our employees.
Our annual performance management colleagues to find each other easily, keep up to date on Company news process has continued to provide a mechanism todrive achievement and work together by sharing documents in dedicated workspaces.
with allemployees participating in a performance related variable bonus pay scheme.
Gender and diversity We benefit enormously from our diverse workforce: our people Employee recognition comefrom different backgrounds and cultures, creating a vibrant Recognising employees who drive our culture by actively demonstrating working environment that thrives on new ideas and fresh thinking.
our Brighter Basics is extremely important to us.
Our OntheSpot The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is award scheme enables senior managers to give instant recognition to highlighted in our Equality Policy and underpinned by our values, employees, while our highly popular TalkTalk Heroes scheme allows which guide the respectful way we behave towards each other.
employees to nominate colleagues for their outstanding contribution Abreakdown by gender of the number of persons who were in a widerange of areas, from charity work to customer engagement.
Directorsof the Company, senior managers and other employees asat 31 March 2014 is set out below.
Employee benefits and share ownership We offer a comprehensive range of flexible employee benefits, which Directors Senior management All TalkTalk we are continually improving, so employees can make choices to suit team employees their lifestyles.
Share ownership is an important part of our culture.
InSeptember 2012, 2 23 we issued every employee, who wasnot currently part of another 761 share option plan, with aone-off gift of 1,000 nil priced shareoptions through the All Employee Share Option Award.
This isin addition 8 1,458 68 tothe annual TalkTalk SAYE Scheme, inwhich over 50% of our employees participate.
