Strategic Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our sustainability journey We approach corporate responsibility CR from a stakeholder perspective: in terms of our workplace, the environment, our marketplace and the communities of which we are a part.
We seek to continually improve the way that we manage, perform in and report on CR matters.
Corporate responsibility governance Management and performance Reporting and communication Governance of CR matters is overseen Workplace Engagement by the Boards Corporate Responsibility We deeply regret three fatal accidents This year we have engaged with Committee see page 51. that occurred at our sites during the last customers and other key stakeholders year: these tragic accidents and our and used this feedback to review how The Chief Executive is the director with response are reported on pages 4, we report on and communicate about specic responsibility for CR matters.
CR matters are part of the Groups risk Environment Reporting management and reporting processes We were included in the FTSE 350 The scope, principles and see page 29.
Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for methodologies we use in reporting Our policies and control arrangements the second year running in 2013, having CR performance are provided in CR addressing human rights include: scored once again in the top 10% of the Reporting Criteria Annual Report 2014 FTSE 350 companies responding.
com t our Code of Ethics and the internal CR2014.
and external communication and Marketplace training undertaken around it We implement controls to promote and Our internal audit function reviewed the t the Companys position and practices ensure responsible and ethical conduct CR information and data in this Annual on equal opportunities and diversity by our employees, business partners Report to confirm its accuracy.
t the Companys Speak Up and in our supply chain see pages We gained independent external whistleblowing arrangements 36 and 37. assurance over selected environmental see page 45 Community data on pages 35 and 36 in this Annual t our controls for managing standards in We have expanded community Report from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd. the supply chain see page 37. involvement in the year providing Their assurance statement can be found support locally and globally in the areas at www.
of well-being, education and environment see page 37.
Workplace Employees by division Employees by geography as at 31 March 2014 as at 31 March 2014 Our employees are critical in delivering our strategy.
The key CR considerations for us 1 49% Bulk Ingredients 1 46% North America 3 10% Latin America 2 42% Speciality Food Ingredients 2 37% Europe, Middle 4 7% Asia Pacific in terms of our workplace are safety and 3 9% Central functions East & Africa how we manage our relationship with employees.
In line with our Values, we 1 1 4 3 believe that everyone should be safe at 3 work and be treated fairly and with respect.
Employee prole At 31 March 2014, Tate & Lyle employed 4,523 people 2013 4,326.
Our employee 2 2 base has increased in the last year primarily due to the formation of Tate & Lyle Howbetter in China, and the acquisition of Biovelop, the Swedish oat beta glucan manufacturer.
32 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Safety Safety performance We have no higher priority than safety, for our employees and for everyone who Recordable incident rate comes to our sites.
Our ultimate goal Number of injuries requiring treatment beyond first aid per 200,000 hours is to have no accidents and no injuries.
Our Executive Safety Steering Tate & Lyle employees Number of incidents combined 2013 Committee, chaired by our Chief Contractors Executive, met throughout the year 44 to review our safety performance and improvement programmes.
Our senior executives are personally 1.55 1.43 involved in safety management and undertake annual executive audits at 0.94 the majority of our sites around the world.
0.63 Performance 0.55 0.43 We deeply regret the deaths during the last year of an employee at our manufacturing 2011 2012 2013 facility in the Netherlands who fell from height, an external truck driver working 3 at our joint-venture site in Hungary who US industry sector employee averages 2012 and Tate & Lyle employees 2013 died in an industrial accident, and a 6.5 Beverage and tobacco contractor in Singapore who died from 5.4 Food manufacturing burns after a hot water escape in April 2014.
A further contractor remains in a 3.7 Construction critical condition in hospital in Singapore.
3.4 Private industry These tragic accidents were thoroughly 2.3 Chemical manufacturing investigated, both internally and externally.
1.5 Energy products manufacturing Actions, based on preliminary findings, 0.43 Tate & Lyle have been taken to prevent this type of accident reoccurring and so that we may learn from these tragic events.
Further Lost-work case rate details are provided in the Chairmans Number of injuries that resulted in lost-work days per 200,000 hours Statement on page 4 and the Chief Executives Review on page 8.
Tate & Lyle employees Number of cases combined 2013 Contractors 2013 2012 2011 1 Fatalities 2 00 10 1 One employee and one external truck driver.
One of our contractors also had a fatality in 0.43 April 2014.
0.31 The safety performance indicators, recordable incident rate and lost-work case 0.22 0.19 0.17 rate, saw a 32% and 49% reduction respectively during the year, to reach our 0.09 lowest levels ever recorded.
However, 2011 2012 2013 safety is about people, not just numbers, and we can never do too much to keep 3 ourselves and our colleagues safe.
US industry sector employee averages 2012 and Tate & Lyle employees 2013 Recordable Lost-work 1.9 Beverage and tobacco incident rate case rate Change Change 1.4 Construction versus versus 1.3 Food manufacturing 2013 2012 2013 2012 1.0 Private industry Employees 0.43 -32% 0.09 -53% Contractors 0.94 -34% 0.22 -49% 0.7 Chemical manufacturing Combined 0.58 -32% 0.13 -49% 0.5 Energy products manufacturing 0.09 Tate & Lyle External benchmarking To put our safety performance in context 2 We report safety performance by calendar year.
and because many of our employees are 3 Source: US Department of Labor, November 2013. located in the US, we compare our results with US industry averages, as shown in the graphs opposite.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 33 t n e m e v e i C h r c e A a t i v i t y s e u l a V e S c p n e Strategic Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY | CONTINUED Safety milestones Gender diversity Our Values Five of our US plants between them won as at 31 March 2014 15 US Corn Reners Association CRA Safety Awards during the year.
Board of Directors Twenty-five of our facilities did not 1 7 70% Men experience a recordable injury in 2013, 2 Safety 3 30% Women compared to 20 in 2012.
Safety initiatives Safety projects and activities progressed 1 Core during the year included: Values Respect Integrity t Contractor safety programme: 2 we improved contractors safety by increased monitoring, sharing best practices, and closer relationships t Safety competency: we trained managers and supervisors on safety leadership and ownership: training for safety representatives included courses Senior managers and 1 on scaffolding and excavation statutorydirectors established a Diversity and Inclusion t Hand safety: a third party conducted 1 117 81% Men Council.
It works on creating awareness glove surveys: we purchased additional 2 27 19% Women of diversity and inclusion issues, tracking cut-resistant gloves and knives with inclusion metrics, and championing our retractable blades: and installed diversity and inclusion programme across glove-type awareness boards 1 the Company.
t Safety awareness: we held our 2 annual Global Safety Week where Progress during the year included: many employees and their families, t Continued increase in awareness and contractors, took part in activities among senior managers of diversity across our sites worldwide.
and inclusion issues, having included Occupational health and well-being consideration of these issues in their We contract with external occupational annual performance objectives health professionals to monitor and t Embedding a focus on diversity safeguard the health of employees at work, in our recruitment practices 2 All employees and to provide information, advice and t Enhanced cultural diversity from the support to them on general health and acquisition of Biovelop, the Swedish 1 2,860 73% Men wellness matters.
oat beta glucan manufacturer, and 2 1,035 27% Women the formation of Tate & Lyle Howbetter Relationship with employees in China.
Our Values define what we stand for and how we behave with our customers, 1 Employee engagement suppliers, investors, the communities we We believe that employees who are operate in and with each other.
We believe engaged by which we mean committed 2 in equal opportunities for all, regardless to the Group, its goals, values and strategy, of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital and to each other are happier and status, disability, race, religion or other ultimately deliver better results.
beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
Good internal communication is essential Our policies, practices and procedures to this.
We communicate with our for recruitment, training and career employees in a number of ways, from 1 Gender diversity for senior managers, excluding development promote equality of Company-wide media including our statutory directors, is 43 77% men and 13 23% opportunity.
We are committed to treating intranet and our quarterly employee women.
people with disabilities fairly in all respects, magazine which is published in 13 2 Excludes joint-venture employees.
including regarding applications, training, languages, to face-to-face dialogue such promotion and career development.
An as site-wide meetings, functional meetings candid opinions about Tate & Lyle and to employee who becomes disabled would, and small group or team meetings.
facilitate conversations about how we can where appropriate, be offered retraining We continue to invest in helping employees make the Company a better place to work.
and managers stay up to date with the Participation increased to 84%, while the Diversity and inclusion latest requirements of their roles: courses overall survey score was just above 3.6 on We believe in a culture where all employees provided during the year included a a scale of 1 to 5 where 5 is the best score, contribute to the performance of the supervisors development programme, also an increase compared to the prior Company and have the opportunity to people management development year.
The results highlighted areas of develop fully according to their individual programme, stakeholder management progress and strength as well as areas abilities.
We aim to attract a diverse and inuencing, and sales training.
These have been workforce that reects the communities In 2013 we conducted our second translated into action plans for individual in which we operate.
In 2011 we employee survey to obtain employees teams as well as the Company as a whole.
34 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 a e d m r o f r e P T e a m y t i w l i o b r a k t n u o c c A Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information We work to address environmental and health and safety management Environment considerations across the life cycle of standards.
Additionally, our rolling We aim to operate our business with our products, from our agricultural supply programme of external, independent a strong regard for environmental chain to how our products are packaged environmental compliance audits assures sustainability.
By using resources such and transported.
as energy and water more efficiently, Our environmental policy and standards Within our own operations and joint and reducing waste, we aim to improve apply to all our activities globally and ventures we focus on those aspects our environmental sustainability while we aim to integrate environmental of our activities that have the greatest also controlling operating costs.
considerations into all major decisions.
potential impact on the environment, Implementing our business strategy, by namely the use of energy and consequent Our facilities operate under local growing our Speciality Food Ingredients air emissions and carbon footprint, water environmental authorisations and permits division, is gradually changing the shape use, and waste management.
and we require strict compliance with these of our manufacturing operations to produce at all times.
If a site breaches an operating Beyond our own operations we focus more speciality products see page 20 limit we seek to take steps immediately our attention on our agricultural raw which typically involve additional to resolve the issue and prevent material and ingredient supply chain, manufacturing steps compared with our reoccurrence.
the transportation of our products to our Bulk Ingredients division.
This can drive customers, and our product packaging.
some increase in resource use and waste, Our internal global compliance audit which we are working to mitigate through programme confirms compliance with efficiency and waste reduction projects our environmental and food safety, quality and programmes.
Environmental performance 3 Energy use Primary carbon footprint Water use Waste to landfill GJ per tonne production Tonnes CO e per tonne production Cubic metres per tonne production Tonnes per 1,000 tonnes production 2 2 2 2 2 4.56 0.375 4.30 7.21 2 2 2 4.30 4.56 0.375 4.27 7.92 4.49 0.373 0.368 4.18 4.42 2 7.21 7.05 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 1 We report environmental performance by calendar year.
2 Refers to 2013 data that has been externally assured by Bureau Veritas UK Ltd. Their assurance statement is at www.
3 Previously we have reported carbon footprint in tonnes of carbon dioxide CO : we now report in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e across all years.
2 2 Environmental sustainability targets and achievements We have four medium-term environmental sustainability targets.
Target by end of 2016 Calendar year 2013 status Example Reduce CO2e emissions from energy use 10% reduction in CO2e emissions per tonne In calendar year 2014, we will be implementing by 12.5% per tonne of production of production versus 2008 an energy project at our Sagamore, Indiana, US 4 baseline year 2008 plant that will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by up to 56,000 tonnes CO e per year 2 Implement packaging reduction Programmes initiated with customers In 2013 we changed from a paper-foil-paper programmes with customers representing representing 20% of sales sack to a paper-plastic-paper sack for several 50% of sales products that improves recyclability and thereby reduces resource use Implement transport efficiency Programmes initiated with customers Four high-efficiency, low emission methane programmes with customers representing representing 25% of sales diesel trucks are dedicated to our central 50% of sales European distribution, utilising liqueed natural bio gas Implement sustainable agricultural Overall, we are currently working on sustainable We utilise an externally conducted sourcing programmes for our top 20 agricultural sourcing across 30 raw materials sustainability risk assessment of our agricultural raw materials and ingredients ingredients.
During the year we established new agricultural raw materials ingredients to by volume sustainable sourcing criteria for four agricultural help us decide how to focus our work on raw materials ingredients sustainable agriculture 4 We recognise that installing new air emissions control equipment at several locations over the next few years and the manufacture of more speciality products will make it more challenging to reduce our energy use and CO2e emissions in the medium term.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 35 Strategic Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY | CONTINUED 1 Operational performance t In total Scope 1 and 2 3,495,220 tCO e wellness platform delivers innovative 2 During the year we saw the impact of: which equates to an intensity of 0.375 ingredients with substantiated health 1 tCO e per tonne of production.
2 t some of our Bulk Ingredients plants For example, PromOat Beta Glucan, We have reported on all of the material running below capacity which reduces a product we acquired in 2013, is a natural emission sources required under The their environmental efficiency, due component of wholegrain Swedish oats Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report to lower demand for carbonated soft that allows foods and beverages to help and Directors Report Regulations 2013. drinks caused by unusually cold lower cholesterol levels and promote We report GHG emissions in line with the and wet weather digestive and intestinal health.
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and t changes in our production mix with the Reporting Standard.
The scope, principles manufacture of more speciality products Our raw materials and ingredients are and methodology we use are provided in t some site-specic factors causing largely derived from renewable agricultural CR Reporting Criteria Annual Report 2014 temporary environmental efficiency sources, principally corn, and in addition at www.
impacts, such as works to implement we consider sustainability matters a new process sequence at Loudon, throughout the product lifecycle.
To this Marketplace US and from taking equipment off-line at end, for our innovation pipeline, we use Decatur, US for scheduled replacement.
a sustainability evaluation tool to: The food and beverage industry is our largest market sector and comprises over In calendar year 2013, compared with 2012 t Undertake a sustainability risk 70% of Group sales.
Other industry sectors our performance was as follows: assessment at an early stage in the we sell into include industrial, animal feed product development process, to identify t Energy use per tonne of production and personal care.
any potential concerns increased by 1.6%.
Since 2008 we have t Evaluate sustainability issues as we CR in the marketplace for us is about: the reduced energy use per tonne of proceed with product development, safety, integrity and functionality of our production by 8%.
to avoid or reduce any potential adverse products: the origin of our agricultural raw t Carbon footprint from energy use impacts such as the use of energy and materials: the conduct of our commercial increased by 1.9% per tonne of non-renewable resources, and to relationships: and the standards within our production.
Since 2008 we have reduced leverage positive impacts such as supply chain.
CO e emissions per tonne of production 2 product health and wellness benets.
In calendar year 2014 we will Product safety and quality be implementing an energy project Conduct of commercial relationships Our products adhere to the highest at our Sagamore, Indiana, US which We are committed to ensuring a safe, standards of food safety, quality and we anticipate will reduce our emissions open and responsible culture in all our traceability.
Products that are safe and to by up to 56,000 tonnes CO e per year.
business dealings wherever we operate, 2 the correct specication are of the utmost t Water use per tonne of production in line with our Code of Ethics.
The Code importance to us.
To ensure this, all of our increased by 2.8%.
Since 2008 we have is made available in 13 languages and is manufacturing facilities are externally reduced water use per tonne of communicated internally via our intranet, certied to the Global Food Safety Initiative production by 6%.
Water re-use and through local Ethics Ambassadors across each year and we have well-established recycling projects implemented at the business, and through training processes and procedures globally to Dayton, Ohio, US during the last two programmes.
Externally, the Code is ensure that we comply with this standard.
years are saving more than 500,000 integrated into our supplier and business Our control arrangements include incubic meters of water annually.
process testing, an annual global t Waste to landll increased by 2.2% per compliance audit programme, and We support our employees and business tonne of production.
Since 2008 we have independent food safety audits of every partners in coming forward with any reduced waste to landll per tonne of manufacturing site.
The ability to trace and information concerning actual or alleged production by 25%.
recall product is tested annually both breaches of the Code of Ethics.
As part of globally and locally at each facility.
We are working to improve our our Speak Up process, we provide access environmental performance by focusing on: to an independent, anonymous third-party Developing sustainable products reporting service, through free phone Our aim is to help our customers provide t Capital projects and operational numbers in 47 countries and by email.
consumers with healthy, nutritious foods practices to reduce our impact Information on accessing this service is and beverages as part of a normal t Working with our suppliers and others to communicated across the Company, balanced diet.
We aim to ensure that our promote sustainable agriculture and externally via our corporate website.
ingredients, and any claims we make t Working with our customers on reducing Any issues reported are investigated by regarding their benets or efcacy, are our combined environmental impact members of our Speak Up Committee, supported by clear, demonstrated science.
associated with transport and packaging.
a group of senior Tate & Lyle executives Group greenhouse gas GHG In line with our strategy, we focus who are responsible for ensuring that any emissions for the period 1 January to particularly on growing our Speciality Food concerns are investigated and that 31 December 2013 in tonnes of carbon Ingredients division, and as such the appropriate action is taken.
dioxide equivalent tCO e were: 2 majority of our new product development is in this area.
Many of our speciality t From combustion of fuel and operation of sweeteners and bres improve stability, 1 facilities Scope 1 2,270,489 tCO e 2 thereby helping to extend consumer t From electricity, heat, steam and cooling product shelf life and assist in avoiding food 1 purchased Scope 2 1,224,731 tCO e 2 waste, which is an important food industry sustainability issue.
Our health and 1 Refers to data that has been externally assured by Bureau Veritas UK Ltd. Their assurance statement can be found at www.
36 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Standards in our supply chain Community Community spend by area We operate a tiered, risk-based approach Year ended 31 March 2014 We have a strong history of community to CR matters in our supply chain.
involvement and during the year we 1 3 39% Well-being 18% Environment 2 34% Education 4 9% Other t Our Code of Ethics sets out the ethical continued to support communities local standards and behaviours we require to our operations and globally.
our employees and business partners Our approach to follow in conducting the Companys 1 4 For Tate & Lyle, community involvement business.
It is communicated to our is about having a positive and lasting suppliers through our contracts and relationship with the community: changing 3 other engagement with them.
We focus on three t Our purchase contract terms and specic areas: conditions include: the requirement 2 for our suppliers to uphold international t Well-being: to provide practical business standards and to be fully assistance in the area of well-being compliant with all applicable laws and from health issues including nutrition regulations, including but not limited to to general welfare, such as supporting t Education: this year we supported those regarding freedom of association food banks local schools, colleges and universities.
and collective bargaining, nont Education: to develop young peoples For example: by assisting with new discrimination, anti-corruption antiknowledge and understanding of equipment purchases, running a road bribery, and the prevention of child science, technology, engineering and safety event for children at local schools, or forced labour: that they comply mathematics STEM subjects, and their and providing scholarship funds to help with the standards, expectations and preparedness for a career in a STEMstudents access higher education.
commitments in our Code of Ethics: based discipline, either academically t Environment: this year we supported and that they require comparable or vocationally a number of environmental initiatives, compliance of their own suppliers.
t Environment: to promote environmental including improvement works to local t Our Procurement function has in place sustainability and good environmental park and conservation areas, and a global procedure whereby the management, addressing issues tree planting.
environmental, social and governance of climate change, natural resources Global partnerships risks associated with supply contracts and conservation We have made good progress in are evaluated, based on: rstly, the Overview of the year developing our global partnership source country, where independent In the year ended 31 March 2014, programmes during the year.
ratings of human rights risk are applied: charitable donations were 501,000 and secondly, the items being supplied, On well-being, we have continued to 2013 376,000.
We aim to increase our with reference to an external sustainability be a partner with the Global Alliance investment in community involvement each risk assessment of our agricultural raw for Improved Nutrition GAIN year, in line with the growth of our business.
org, and we contributed country is identied as being of high Local programmes partnerships $50,000 to disaster relief by the Red Cross or medium risk for human rights, We seek to engage with local communities following the Philippines typhoon in or the contract is for a higher risk item, where our principal manufacturing, R&D November 2013. enhanced control arrangements are and ofce facilities are located.
Employees For education, we are implementing an put in place.
at each location can make their own undergraduate bursary scholarship decision as to the specic projects they Our sustainable agriculture programme programme across selected universities support and the partnerships that they specically addresses environmental, internationally, assisting undergraduates develop.
As a result we support a range social and governance matters in our to access courses in STEM disciplines.
of initiatives and organisations in our agricultural raw materials ingredient local communities.
For environment, we are a corporate partner of the environmental research t Well-being: we supported a wide variety In addition, having used the Sedex and engagement charity Earthwatch of local health and well-being initiatives social and ethical compliance system http: eu.
org, with which we this year, including United Way www.
com across our own have established a project on the ecology, community programmes at several manufacturing facilities for a number of conservation and sustainable harvesting locations in the US.
For the second year years, we are now starting to use it in our of seaweed.
running, our e-Christmas card supported supply chain as one of the tools to promote the homeless charity Crisis at Christmas and assure good CR practices.
in London, UK and the Northern Illinois Tate & Lyle is a member of the FTSE4Good Food Bank in Chicago, USA: both indices of companies meeting global organisations provided practical, corporate responsibility standards: the immediate assistance to those in need screening criteria for which include supply over the holiday period.
The Strategic Report from page 1 to chain risks and control arrangements.
page 37 of this Annual Report was approved by the Board on 28 May 2014.
On behalf of the Board Lucie Gilbert Company Secretary 28 May 2014 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 37
