Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT Introduction Dear shareholder We undertook a detailed review of the Last, but by no means least, we welcome As explained in the Corporate Groups approach to tackling cyber Virginia Kamsky as an additional Committee Responsibility section on page 33, the security and received a report on progress member from 1 April 2014 and we have Group has no higher priority than safety, in this regard during the year.
We will put in place an induction programme for so we were all shocked and saddened by continue to monitor the ongoing efforts her, reecting our wide remit.
the tragic fatalities at three of our plants to mitigate this risk across the Group.
I look forward to meeting with over the last year.
In each case, we The annual review of Committee shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
investigated the circumstances effectiveness, undertaken by Schneider surrounding the accidents and the actions William Camp Ross, indicated that the Committee taken by management based on the Chairman of the CR Committee continues to operate effectively.
It preliminary findings of these investigations recommended some areas for process immediately after the events, as well as improvement, such as the timing of ensuring all necessary co-operation was meetings where the discussion topics given to the local regulatory investigations.
overlap with the interests of the Audit We also worked with management to Committee, for example IT security.
In ensure all necessary assistance was addition, the review highlighted topics available to support the families and for increased focus, such as initiatives others affected by these incidents.
to drive and embed inclusion across the We are sponsoring a management organisation, and we have adjusted our initiative to refocus and refresh our agenda to address these suggestions.
The oversight of ongoing safety initiatives will continue to be a key focus for the Committee this year.
William Camp Composition and constitution Main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee comprises four These include: t Monitoring the effectiveness of non-executive directors and the workplace policies concerning t Monitoring the Groups approach to Chairman of the Company.
The employee relations, equal opportunities, corporate responsibility and ensuring Committee oversees the Groups travel, entertainment and conicts it aligns with Group strategy processes and measures used to of interest t Reviewing the effectiveness of the manage social, environmental and t Reviewing whistleblowing arrangements Groups policies and procedures ethical risks and associated internal t Satisfying itself that the Group has relating to a safe working environment controls.
appropriate policies, systems and t Approving, or recommending to the controls in place in respect of the risks The Committees terms of reference, Board for approval, CR policies falling within the Committees remit.
which are reviewed annually, can be t Reviewing the implementation of found on the Companys website, appropriate environmental policies www.
Meetings during the year ended Safety Charitable donations 31 March 2014 The Committee discussed the Groups The Committee received an update on The Committee met four times during the initiatives to improve workplace safety implementation of the global community year.
Membership of the Committee and performance and received regular reports involvement programme, and also attendance during the year were as follows: from the VP, Global Safety.
approved a proposed education partnership strategy as set out on page 37.
Product safety continued to be an area of Number of Directors as at Number of meetings focus and the VP, Global Quality and Food Environment 31 March 2014 meetings attended Safety provided regular updates on the The VP, Sustainability provided the 1 William Camp 44 operation of the Groups quality assurance Committee with updates on the Groups Liz Airey 4 4 processes.
environmental performance and initiatives Sir Peter Gershon 4 4 on a regular basis.
Diversity and inclusion Dr Ajai Puri 4 4 The Committee received an update on the Internal control implementation of diversity and inclusion The Committee received regular reports 1 Committee Chairman.
initiatives and agreed further renements from management and the VP, Group Audit Virginia Kamsky joined the committee on 1 April 2014.
As she did not serve during the year under to the external reporting of the Groups and Assurance in respect of the policies, review, she is excluded from the above analysis.
systems and controls in place in respect of the risks falling within the Committees Business practices Work undertaken during the year remit.
The Committee reviewed the output The Committee reviewed the effectiveness During the year and up to the date of this from the annual review of the effectiveness of the independent condential reporting Annual Report, in addition to the work of controls falling within its terms of whistleblowing line.
Further information outlined in the Committee Chairmans reference and then reported to the Board on this is on page 45. letter, the work undertaken by the CR on this review.
Committee included the following: Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 51
