Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sustainability Creating sustainable communities Our approach to sustainability Our sustainability recognition Our aim is to balance the long term economic stability Our Cambourne development in Cambridgeshire was named Best Low and growth of our Company with our responsibilities to or Zero Carbon Initiative at the Housebuilder Awards 2014 the environment, society and the economies in which weoperate.
Our City Mills development in London won Best Regeneration Project Ultimate executive accountability for sustainability and at the National Housing Awards 2014 climate issues continues to rest with our Chief Executive Pete Redfern.
Our Sustainability Steering Group SSG 96% of our employees believe that Taylor Wimpey takes its social and co-ordinates our sustainability activities at the community responsibilities seriously operationallevel.
Taylor Wimpey continues to be a constituent of the DowJones Sustainability Europe Index and the FTSE4Good Index Series.
We participate annually in CDP the Carbon Disclosure Project and received a score of 88% for disclosure and performance band C in 2014 2013: 75% D. We are delighted that Taylor Wimpey was Highly Commended in the FTSE 250 Sustainability Reporting category of the PwC Building Public Trust Awards 2014, which aim to recognise trust and transparency in corporate reporting.
Global GHG emissions for period 1 January to 31 December 2014 2013 Category Total emissions tonnes CO e 2 Emissions from combustion of fuel scope 1 16,436 16,177 Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use scope 2 11,885 10,526 Total scope 1 and 2 emissions 28,322 26,703 Emissions Intensity: Emissions per 100 sqm of completed homes 2.45 2.48 Percentage reduction in direct carbon emissions intensity scope 1 and 2 1.2% Not available due to using a new emissions measurement methodology in 2013 due to the introduction of Mandatory Carbon Reporting.
This means that 2013 data is not entirely comparable to previous years.
Methodology We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the CRCEnergy Efficiency scheme and Mandatory Carbon Reporting requirements, and emission factors from the Governments GHG Conversion Factors for our corporate reporting.
We have reported on the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 apart from the exclusions noted.
The reported sources fall within our consolidated financial statement and are for emissions over which we have financial control.
We do nothave responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
The following sources of emissions were excluded or part-excluded from thisreport: Fugitive emissions refrigerant gases : excluded on the basis of difficulty in acquiring disparate data: Gas and electricity of part-exchange properties: excluded on the basis of immateriality due to very few completions of this type: Certain joint venture properties: where Taylor Wimpey was not part of the handover process.
In these cases other housebuilders have captured MCR-related data: Combined heat and power CHP plants: excluded on the basis of difficulty in acquiring data.
KPI Please see our Sustainability Report 2014 for further information on our emissions data and methodology at www.
co. uk corporate sustainability 30 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Integrating sustainability In 2013 we launched our Sustainability Strategy, committing Our aim is to balance the long term economic Taylor Wimpey to working towards being a more socially, environmentally and economically sustainable company: stability and growth of our Company with our and in 2014 we continued our work towards this.
responsibilities to the environment, society Our Sustainability Strategy sets out a range of strategic commitments that relate to key social, environmental and and the economies in which we operate.
The strategy works alongside our Energy and Carbon Strategy.
Our six sustainability principles apply to all of our business activities, from identifying land through alsosupported a range of other charitable causes, including to completing and handing over our developments.
These Macmillan Cancer Support, Youth Adventure Trust and Donated or can be found within our Sustainability Report 2014.
fundraised over Key initiatives in 2014 included reviewing our internal In total during 2014 we raised over 539k 2013: 415k processes with regard to flood risk: undertaking a water for registered charities through donations and fundraising.
539m audit and a biodiversity review: investigating climate change Human rights adaptation and continuing with our energy reduction for registered charities We support the United Nations Universal Declaration of programme on sites, in sales areas and in offices.
in 2014 Human Rights and have policies and processes in place We continue to maintain best practice community to ensure that we act in accordance with our cultural engagement and health and safety remains a nonvalues which encompass areas such as equal opportunities, negotiable top priority.
We do not consider this a material issue in our business.
We do much more than build homes Invested Our operations add significant additional value to Greenhouse Gas emissions GHG communities in which we build: for example, job creation, We continue to take steps to improve our approach to 300m improvements to local environments and infrastructure, as climate change mitigation, adaptation and transparency.
well as contributions to education and community facilities, Data is provided as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent via Section 106 and creating sustainable and vibrant communities.
CO e and covers 100% of our housing operations Section 75 planning 2 including our sites, offices, business travel, as a result obligations During 2014, we contributed 300 million to local of waste disposal and throughout our supply chains.
communities via Section 106 and Section 75 planning Our2014 scope 1 and 2 data has been externally verified obligations 2013: 227 million.
Since 2010 we have by the Carbon Trust.
Outlook We also support charities at both a national and regional Being a sustainable business is fundamental to each level.
Housing and homelessness continued to be key component of our business model and the long term areasof focus for us in 2014, underpinned by our longsuccess of our Company.
We will continue to measure, standing partnership with Centrepoint and our network monitor and report annually on our sustainability of six regional homelessness charities across the UK, as performance and will strive to further integrate sustainability well as CRASH and Crisis.
In addition, during the year we into every aspect of our business in 2015.
More information about our sustainability activities Sustainability Report 2014 Further information about our sustainability activities and policies can be found Building within our dedicated Sustainability Report and on our website.
co. uk corporate sustainability Visit our website for more information about our approach to land and planning, sustainability, design and developing communities, as well as case studies of developments we have built in your area.
co. uk about-us KPI 31 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sustainability continued Evaluating our progress We continue to set and benchmark ourselves against annual sustainability targets and a series of Key Performance Indicators.
Please see our Sustainability Report 2014 for further information on progress in 2014 and targets for 2015.
Selecting land Managing the planning Getting the and community homebuilding engagement process basics right Sold Progress Progress Progress Continued to focus on selecting the right land Continued to undertake tailored, Produced new guidance on design in and developing it in a sustainable manner.
development specific engagement with Our Approach to Placemaking.
local communities on each and every Launched new guidance for employees Reviewed internal processes with regard one of our UK sites.
on Our Approach to Sustainable to flood risk, undertook a water audit and Development.
Updated and re-issued our Community biodiversity review and investigated climate Engagement Toolkit.
Reached our optimal short term landbank size and strengthened our strategic land Further developed the website pages Continued with our energy reduction pipeline with a record performance where for our proposed developments and programme on sites, in sales areas we converted over 10k plots from the promoted our website as a community and in offices.
strategic pipeline into the short term engagement tool.
Our scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions landbank.
Undertook pilots of social media use in intensity reduced by 1.2% in 2014.
We community engagement to understand expect a greater reduction in 2015 as our Targets for 2015 how social media could contribute to energy reduction programme progresses.
Continue to focus on selecting the right land our community engagement process.
and developing it in a sustainable manner.
Our construction waste increased in Continued to provide employees with comparison to 2013 levels, however, Average of 40% of strategically sourced training on our integrated approach to wecontinue to compare favourably with completions per annum in the medium term.
sustainable development, community our peers.
Strategic pipeline conversion target of engagement and design.
Introduced a major new HSE Theme c. 6k plots per annum in the medium term.
Launched an economic benefits toolkit Initiative and new procedures on safe for use during consultation.
Launched a new curriculum pack to help Targets for 2015 our regional business units to engage Reduce our mains water consumption with local school pupils and their parents.
from our metered UK offices by 3% per full time employee and develop a Targets for 2015 business-wide water reduction strategy.
Continue to investigate digital aspects of community engagement, including Use the findings of our biodiversity analysing the outcomes of our social reviewto develop a biodiversity strategy.
Continue to progress towards our carbon Continue to maintain best practice intensity reduction target of 25% by 2018. community engagement.
Develop and implement action plans for reducing construction waste by 15%.
Continue with our energy reduction programme on sites, in sales areas Our sustainability and inoffices.
reporting was Highly Commended in the PwC Improve or, as a minimum, maintain the Building Public Trust same Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR Awards 2014 achieved in 2014.
32 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Delivering customer service Our people Optimising value Sold Progress Progress Progress Undertook more detailed research and Recruited a new Group Human Continued to do much more than build continued with our in-depth customer ResourcesDirector as well as creating homes, using our approach to design and service review, with a view to developing a new roles of Head of Talent and Senior our planning agreement contributions to Customer Service Strategy and action plans Resourcing Manager.
add social, environmental and economic in 2015. value to the wider communities in which Continued to work on diversity we operate.
Increasing customer satisfaction has been andestablished a Diversity and a clear priority for us and we have created Inclusivity Committee.
Ran initiatives with schools, colleges a new role of Customer Director.
and higher education providers to provide Recruited 99 apprentices including educational projects, work experience, We are disappointed that our customer 29 site management apprentices, 50 jobs and help with employability.
survey results in 2014 mean that we will management trainees and 19 graduates.
achieve a four-star rating for customer Became involved in a wide range of Undertook our employee engagement satisfaction in 2015.
We aim to achieve a charitable and community activities survey.
five-star rating again as soon as possible.
Continued to develop our approach Reviewed and updated the 40 existing Continued to support homelessness to learning and development for our modules of our Sales Academy and charities.
introduced community engagement Targets for 2015 Targets for 2015 and sustainability modules.
Continue to add social, economic Update the human resources strategy Targets for 2015 and environmental value to the wider forTaylor Wimpey.
Customer service will remain a key area communities in which we operate and Continue our current graduate, management of focus for us in 2015. continue to report on progress.
trainee and trade apprenticeship schemes Draw up a comprehensive Customer Expand the membership of our Charity and attract at least 20 new graduates, Service Strategy and action plans.
Committee and review our charity focus.
20 management trainees and 100 Continue to develop our Marketing Academy.
Undertake an annual employee survey.
Expand the development opportunities across our senior teams.
Our East London Achieved regional business was named Private Developer of the 70 Year at the First Pride in the Job Time Buyer Quality Awards magazine Readers in 2014 Awards 33
