DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE The Finance Director provides the Board with monthly Our Sustainability Focus financial information which includes key performance We believe in three very important areas of sustainability: indicators.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made 1.
Protect: The Group is committed to protecting the by the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
environment within our properties and throughout our entire supply chain by reducing the use of resources and The Risk Committee includes the Finance Director and various increasing efficiencies wherever possible.
It reviews, on a twice yearly basis, the risk management and control process and considers: 2.
Product: The Group is committed to purchasing the best possible products for use and sale within and throughout the authority, resources and co-ordination of those Ted and associated businesses at the same time as involved in the identification, assessment and ensuring that the people and environment within the management of significant risks faced by the Group: supply chain are treated well.
the response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others: 3.
Practise: The Group is committed to practising what it the maintenance of a controlled environment directed preaches by implementing a robust strategy to achieve our towards the proper management of risk: and goals and targets by educating and inspiring our teams.
Environmental Impacts Additionally, the Risk Committee keeps abreast of all changes As part of our commitment to Protect, the Group has made to the systems and follows up on areas that require engaged in a number of environmental projects during the improvement.
It reports to the Board at twice yearly intervals course of the year: or more frequently should the need arise.
We continue to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project to measure and disclose our greenhouse gas The Bribery Act 2010 emissions and climate change strategies.
Our score The Board continues to proactively review the Groups procedures increased from 66% in the previous year to 71%.
to ensure they are sufficiently robust to prevent corruption.
All of our business travel within Scopes 1 and 3 is CarbonNeutral.
This means that the unavoidable susTainaBiliTy anD The environMenT emissions generated by air, road and rail journeys, required At Ted Baker we believe in being open and honest in the to visit our stores, trustees and suppliers, have been way we do business: this includes doing the right thing offset in full through the purchase of carbon credits from by all of our stakeholders throughout our supply chain and Voluntary Carbon Standard VCS validated projects.
operating in a fair and sustainable manner.
We approach our We are constantly reviewing the waste our business social, environmental and ethical commitments SEE with generates in an effort to achieve our overall aim of the same focus and attention to detail that permeates the sending no waste to landfill.
We participate in the rest of the business.
To ensure that we continue to meet our Wastepack Compliance Scheme as part of the Producer responsibilities in these important areas we designed a three Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations pronged plan, named Ted3, in 2012.
1997, and continue to reduce unnecessary packaging.
We work with the National Industrial Symbiosis How we work Programme NISP to recycle as much waste from Lindsay Page has been given specific responsibility head office as we can through their network of charities, for overseeing the formulation of the Groups policies such as Scrapstores.
and procedures for managing risks arising from social, We have been working with charity Newlife to ensure environmental and ethical matters.
In addition, the Board has that all faulty garments returned to store do not end tasked four members of the Executive Committee to oversee up in landfill.
From the end of March 2014 all faulty specific areas of our SEE agenda for the Group.
These returned garments will be sent to Newlife for resale Executive Committee members participate because of the as second-hand garments.
relevance of their departments to our ongoing commitment in these areas Brand Communication, Product Design, Through relationships with charities Oxfam, Newlife and Production and Special Projects Interior Design.
Our full World Jewish Relief we have been able to ensure that our time Green Guardian coordinates these areas and the Groups end of life garments are utilised in the best way, raising over cross-functional team which is responsible for addressing 100,000 and diverting 12 tonnes of waste from landfill.
SEE concerns of the Group the Teds Conscience Team.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 20 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Ethical and Sustainable Sourcing Animal welfare is an important issue to many consumers Greenhouse Gas Emissions and we have always endeavoured to source from the As part of our commitment to Product, we place great The Group has for a number of years participated in the Carbon by the Group within concession stores is excluded from highest quality suppliers.
Our Group Animal Welfare importance on ethical and environmental sourcing within Disclosure Project and is now required, in accordance with Scope 1 and 2 calculations because the Group has neither statement can be found at www.
We believe that our products should be produced The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors financial nor operational control over a concession area.
in factories that are committed to providing a fair and safe Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations, to report its emissions are included in the Groups Scope 3 figures which We have continued with our decision not to sell fragrance environment for their workers.
Our trusted partners within greenhouse gas emissions GHG.
are published in our annual Carbon Disclosure Project Report.
or skinwear in China to make sure we are able to abide the supply chain are one of our most valuable assets.
by our principles of not testing on animals.
We also The Group has adopted a greenhouse gas reporting policy As this is the first occasion on which the Group has reported its took the decision during the year to discontinue the All Ted Baker suppliers are governed by our Company and a management system based on the ISO 14064-1:2006 greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Regulations, use of Angora rabbit fibre from our High Summer 2014 Code of Conduct, which is based on the Social methodology, which has been used to calculate the Groups there is no comparable data in respect of prior years.
The collection onwards as we are uncomfortable with the Accountability International standard, an internationally Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the year ended 25 January 2014 intensity ratios provided have been selected on the basis of practise of shearing rabbits.
recognised benchmark for ethical excellence, and can for activities within the financial control of the Group.
consistency with the Groups key performance measures.
co. uk legal Community In measuring the Groups greenhouse gas emissions, all The Groups GHG emissions during the year ended 25 January documents Ted Baker Code of Conduct.
In order to Practise our goals and achieve our targets we the Groups stores, warehouses and head offices around 2014 are disclosed in the table below: Through our partnership with Made-By, a non-profit place great importance on the Teducation of our employees the world were taken into account.
The space occupied multi-stakeholder initiative set up to improve sustainability to support the community in a number of ways.
Throughout within the fashion industry, our Social Scorecard for 2012 2014 the year we have supported various charities and taken part was released and can be found at www.
org 2 in valuable and exciting projects.
Scope 1 Direct CO emissions tonnes CO2e 238 partner-brand 34 ted-baker scorecard.
The scorecard shows 2 Our employees are our greatest asset.
To make the Scope 2 Indirect CO emissions tonnes CO2e 3,125 a reduction in the percentage of product sourced from most of their innovation we have Teds Conscience Team 2 Made-By benchmarked factories.
This change is due to the Total tonnes CO e emissions 3,363 to encourage colleagues to be more environmentally and social certifications of a few of our key factories lapsing and 2 tCO e per sq foot 0.011 socially aware in both their jobs and their personal lives.
does not necessarily signify a lapse in their standards.
A key 2 tCO e per thousand GBP sales 0.010 Our Green Guardian gives twice-yearly store team focus for the forthcoming year will be for us to work with training sessions to ensure our sustainability agenda is these suppliers to improve social certification through the GHG emissions have been calculated using the appropriate 2013 DEFRA conversion factors.
implementation of a Ted Baker specific audit program.
Our 4th scorecard will be released in May 2014.
We release a quarterly Teds Conscience Newsletter for the warehouse and retail teams to advise members on During the period we completed two long-term social our policies, plans, targets and partners.
improvement programs with key suppliers as part of our partnership with MADE-BY and continued a third.
Teds Conscience issues a monthly DO SOMETHING As a result of these projects we have seen a marked email initiating sustainable and environmental activities improvement in participating factories social practices and competitions to inspire everyone in our head office.
We continued to encourage our employees to donate We are part of the Sustainable Clothing Action Plan unwanted items through our Oxfam Collects SCAP, a DEFRA sponsored action plan, organized to Collection Point.
improve the sustainability of clothing throughout its We donated products and raised money for other lifecycle by bringing together industry, government and charities during the year including Magic Breakfast, a third parties.
SCAP members collaborate to develop charity that provides underprivileged school children in sector-wide targets along with the tools and guidance London with much needed breakfast before school, and necessary to achieve them.
As a SCAP 2020 signatory, The Tope Project, a charity that organises Christmas we are challenged to reduce carbon, water and the dinner for young care leavers in London.
amount of waste generated or consumed by our We keep two Buckfast bee colonies on the roof of products by 15% by 2020. our London head office from which we had a hugely As part of SCAP, we participate in the Metrics group.
successful honey harvest for the fourth year running.
The group identifies the key industry metrics that businesses should measure and is working on a tool to measure baseline carbon, water and waste footprints.
It also identifies improvement actions that business could take in this area.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 21 22
