DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE PeoPle Health, Safety and Welfare The talent, commitment and passion of the Ted Baker team are Our duty and commitment to the well-being of our team is key factors in the success of our business and brand.
The value supported by activity such as private healthcare, occupational we place on our team is shown in the way we motivate them, health, health seminars and funding for flu jabs.
During the encourage learning and development, nurture their growth and period, we conducted a Wellness health assessment day and potential, and recognise and reward their contributions.
we offer health and fitness classes to our team members at our head office.
We also run a Childcare Voucher Scheme.
Reward and Recognition We launched an Employee Assistance Programme during the year that further supports our genuine concern for the wellRemuneration is reviewed annually and a benchmarking being of our team.
review is undertaken to ensure we remain competitive and fair across all areas of the business.
Our rewards include bonus The prevention and identification of risks and accidents is schemes linked to sales targets and individual and corporate supported by an external health and safety service provider performance.
We encourage our people to join our Save As and ongoing training of management teams.
A dedicated You Earn SAYE schemes.
This year we celebrated our third health and safety focused team member has been appointed year of Wisdom Awards: recognition for the longer serving and will strengthen our knowledge and commitment in this members of the team and a chance for them to celebrate and area of our business.
share their stories with the rest of the team.
Disabled Employees Learning and Development Applications for employment by disabled persons are always Performance is reviewed bi-annually with each team fully and fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of member to discuss personal and career development.
In the event of members of the this process, goals and objectives are set and linked to team becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that personal growth and business development as well as Teds their employment with the Group continues and that where environmental and social commitments.
We allow our people appropriate reasonable adjustments are made and relevant to broaden their abilities and knowledge by exposing them training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, to new experiences.
We invest in training which ranges from career development and promotion of disabled persons should, specialist and technical skills training, to in-house developed as far as possible, be identical with that of other employees.
courses focusing on management skills, leadership skills, brand awareness and self-awareness.
Firm career paths exist Culture across the Group and inter-departmental and international The spirit in which we conduct our business and interact moves play a large part in retaining and growing talent.
with our team always takes into consideration Would Ted do it that way?
We regularly host internal events, including Diversity Teducation sessions with the Chief Executive telling the story The Group believes in respecting individuals and their rights in behind the brand and also family days where we open our the workplace.
With this in mind, specific policies are in place doors to family and friends.
covering harassment and bullying, whistle blowing and equal opportunities.
Our team represents a wide and diverse workforce Employer Brand from all backgrounds, sexual orientations, nationalities and ethnic The culture sets the tone for how our employer brand and religious groups.
We support sponsorship of visa applications, speaks to our teams.
Aligned to the business brand, our where appropriate, to retain specific talent within the business.
Ted tone of voice is translated through every employee With continued overseas expansion our workforce is becoming touch point throughout the employee lifecycle.
Our Coach more diverse and we respect cultural difference and actively Station department leads the way in communicating a unique seek to learn about them in each territory we operate.
As at approach to all people and team orientated activity.
25 January 2014, of our 2,524 global workforce, 882 employees were male and 1,642 female.
Of these, 50 were senior managers Employee Engagement 25 male, 25 female, which include members of our leadership team and individuals who are statutory directors of the corporate The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its entities whose financial information is included in the Groups employees and continues to keep them informed on matters 2014 consolidated accounts in this Annual Report.
In terms affecting them and on the significant factors affecting the of the Companys Board of Directors, there were 5 directors, performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal 4 of whom were male and 1 female.
Prior to any appointment and informal meetings and employee representatives are to the Board, the Nomination Committee gives due regard to consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting diversity and gender with a view to appointing the best placed employees current and future interests.
Employees are individual for the role see page 25 to view biographies of the regularly informed of the Groups performance and the members of the Board.
factors affecting its performance during the year.
