38 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate social responsibility review Planned certification for Italy and Netherlands will take place Driving continuous in 2015.
In 2014, we also recertified to the Carbon Trust Standard in improvement the UK and achieved a best in sector score of 92.5% for Carbon Management.
We have reported on all greenhouse gas emission sources for which TelecityGroup is responsible and on which we are required to report under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and At TelecityGroup we are committed to Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
The Groups total emissions responsible business practices and endeavour 1 in 2014 as externally audited by a third-party emissions 1 to deliver sustainable value for our shareholders specialist were 238,305 tonnes C0 equivalent.
The CUE 2 intensity ratio of 0.655 kgCO e kWh was a deterioration from and wider stakeholders.
As a consequence this led to the targeted 3% reduction in like-for-like CUE performance from the 2013 level Our CSR strategy being missed.
As indicated in the 2013 Annual Report, there has As an international and expanding business we recognise that been a worsening of grid emission factors in certain countries due we have a role to play in managing and meeting some of the to increased use of carbon emitting raw energy sources e. g. coal challenges that we face as a society.
We are committed to for power generation.
This is shown notably in the UK which driving our business in a way that is responsible, ensures our accounts for approximately 45% of the Groups carbon emissions, own business sustainability and meets the expectations of and where the grid emission factor has deteriorated by our stakeholders.
For 2014, TelecityGroup has reported a Our business strategy is centred on delivering high quality data full year of carbon figures which include the full year impact of centres that drive value for our customers.
Proactively managing our emerging market locations.
These locations have more our material, social, environmental and governance issues is carbon-intense grid emissions factors e. g. in Bulgaria the essential to the commercial success of our business and creating CO e factor is 37 times greater than in Sweden and have 2 lasting value for all our stakeholders.
In 2011, we conducted a a significant impact on annualised Group CUE results.
review that resulted in the setting of five-year goals relating to Energy security of supply the most material corporate responsibility issues facing the Group Energy accounts for a significant proportion of our spend with and the impacts our business has on its stakeholders.
Over the suppliers, and energy security of supply has been identified as last 12 months, we have made good progress against these goals a material issue for our business.
Risk to the security of energy and the majority of our CSR performance targets have been met.
supply has the ability to impact both our business and the data We recognise that listening to our stakeholders, and responding centre industry as a whole, which could have significant wider to their relevant concerns, is important in keeping our strategy implications on macro-economic growth.
Some energy grids are relevant and effective.
This year we undertook a materiality nearing full capacity and it is expected that security of supply will assessment to update our understanding of the issues facing the become increasingly important in the medium to long term.
This involved conducting a series of interviews with key As such, backup generators with standalone fuel supplies are internal and external stakeholders.
As a result, we have identified in place across all our facilities to ensure that should a break in four material issues which are most important to drive business supply occur, we have sufficient contingency measures in place success and are of greatest interest to our stakeholders.
We conduct regular testing and maintenance of energy backup systems.
Additionally, we are Our material issues in regular dialogue with our energy suppliers and energy regulators Energy efficiency about the energy security in our markets.
The data centre industry has a vital role to play in creating a more Data security  economy.
TelecityGroups business Data security is of vital importance to our customers.
While our growth has a direct impact on its energy usage.
By virtue of services focus primarily on the provision and maintenance of data the Groups scale and expertise, IT equipment housed in centre environments, it is important that we proactively mitigate TelecityGroup data centres is more efficient to run than if it information security risks.
We have established a robust Group were hosted in organisations smaller proprietary server rooms.
Security Policy which all employees receive training on.
The policy Throughout 2014, we focused our environmental management is monitored and enforced by the Group security team, and is performance on the continued introduction of energy monitoring subject to regular internal and external audits.
and targeting systems while installing more sophisticated Furthermore, we have obtained certification to the information metering systems and energy analysis.
Our certification to security standard ISO 27001, and conduct regular and rigorous ISO 50001, a best practice energy management standard, is security testing and monitoring of our IT systems and networks progressing well across the Group.
In addition to the sites already across all sites.
certified UK, France and Group Head Office, Ireland was successful in achieving ISO 50001 certification during 2014.
Customer satisfaction The customer is at the heart of everything TelecityGroup does in designing, building and operating data centres across Europe.
1 Carbon Usage Effectiveness CUE, is a metric developed by The Green Grid and commonly used by data centres globally to assess carbon efficiency.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 39 Our success is predicated on providing capacity to support Employees our customers long-term business growth.
We seek to engage At TelecityGroup we understand the importance of developing and work closely with our customers to understand their a highly skilled and committed workforce, and recognise this as needs to provide a flexible service that meets their objectives, a vital factor in our continuing success.
The Group offers both in terms of business performance and their own employees at all levels a range of training and learning corporate responsibilities.
We firmly believe that by investing in our employees and ensuring they have the necessary skill sets, We are committed to achieving the highest levels of customer we can motivate and retain the highest standards and continue satisfaction and we closely monitor the Groups performance in excellence across the business.
In 2014, our customer survey indicated that 92% of customers are either satisfied or very satisfied with the level of Our annual employee engagement survey was again completed service that TelecityGroup provides, above our target of 90%.
The in 2014, with 87% of employees taking part.
Workforce satisfaction Group seeks to maintain this level of customer satisfaction and is rose by 2% in 2014 with 79% of respondents agreeing with the committed to continuing to report on this measure in the future.
statement that they enjoy working for TelecityGroup.
This is just below our target of 80%.
Our wider responsibilities As an equal opportunities employer, diversity in all areas is Ethics and compliance a priority for TelecityGroup.
We treat all employees equally We are committed to maintaining the highest ethical, professional regardless of race or colour: ethnic or national origin: age: gender: and legal standards.
As well as a Group-wide Code of Ethics, we sexual orientation: marriage and civil partnership: gender identity have a comprehensive set of policies which set out our approach and or expression: religion or belief: physical ability disability to issues such as whistleblowing, anti-bribery, quality, health and or other protected characteristics as relevant in a country.
The Group compliance function is We continually investigate ways in which to attract diversity responsible for monitoring compliance against our policies.
into the organisation with a focus on merit-based selection During 2014, we strengthened our systems in this area and rolled and promotion.
Two aspects of diversity that are particularly out anti-bribery training to 722 people, which accounts for 93% important on our Board are female and non-UK representation.
of our employees, across nine countries UK & Head Office, These aspects are measured firstly with reference to our Sweden, Finland, Ireland, France, Italy, Netherlands, Germany non-executive Directors, and secondly with reference to our and Bulgaria.
In 2015, we plan to extend this training across our senior management including the executive Directors.
operations in Poland and Turkey.
Board and employee diversity Non-Executive Directors by gender Group and country managers All employees gender by job level excluding Executive Chairman by gender including Executive Chairman including Executive Chairman Non-Executive Female 22 Non-Executive Female Male Female Director, manager Director, 2 manager manager nonfemale 3% male 140 11% 89% manager 40% 60% 2 18% Male Male non- 128 manager 473 manager 3 17% 62% 16 Non-Executive Directors by citizenship Group and country managers by All employees by citizenship excluding Executive Chairman citizenship including Executive Chairman including Executive Chairman Non-UK UK Non-UK UK Non-UK UK 20% 80% 56% 44% 56% 44% 1 335 10 8 428 4 40 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance In this section 42 Introduction 44 Our Board 46 Report of the Board 52 Report of the Audit Committee 57 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 67 Report of the Nominations Committee 71 Report of the Remuneration Committee Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 41
