Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 57 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Membership of the CSR Committee The UK Code does not provide guidance for the membership of this Committee.
The Board believes that a diverse membership drawn from the Board and management is appropriate.
Chairman Non-Board member of management Independent non-executive Director with month of appointment to the Committee John Hughes Chairman Rob Coupland Managing Feb 2011 Director UK Feb 2011 Claudia Arney Independent James Tyler non-executive John Hughes, CBE Chief Commercial officer Director June 2013 CSR Committee Chairman April 2012 attendee Maurizio Carli Independent since Feb 2011 non-executive Director During 2014, we made good progress against April 2012 Nancy Cruickshank Independent non-executive Director June 2013 our established targets which measure the Date of appointment to Committee.
Michael Tobin was the Chairman of the CSR Groups ongoing alignment to being a Committee until he stepped down from the Board in August2014.
departure, John Hughes was appointed Chairman of the Committee.
Specific objectives achieved in 2014 The CSR Committee is responsible for overseeing and integrating Continued to monitor existing CSR objectives and corporate social responsibility and sustainability within the performance against targets : business.
It reports directly into the Board and meets four times Continued to improve energy management best practices a year to review progress against CSR objectives, key performance across the Group to minimise carbon and GHG emissions: data and the implementation of standards and CSR measures.
Continued to identify additional areas for monitoring: The Board believes that a diverse membership drawn from the Maintained an ongoing review of market and reporting Board and management is appropriate.
requirements as they pertain to the Groups CSR strategy and future activities in order to inform the review of the five Our CSR Strategy year CSR targets set in 2011: In 2011, we conducted a review that resulted in the setting of five Reviewed Group Ethics and Conduct Policy and ensured year goals relating to the most material corporate responsibility their adoption by employees: and issues facing the Group and the impacts our business has on Maintained ongoing stakeholder engagement to ensure stakeholders.
These were carbon efficiency, customer the Group CSR strategy and associated targets are aligned satisfaction, employee engagement, certification of robust to long-term market expectations and sustainable management systems and business integrity.
For each of these growth strategy.
areas a quantifiable metric with a specific performance target was established for the near term, and a five-year goal was also set.
Specific objectives set for 2015 Over the last 12 months, we have continued to monitor the Continue to monitor existing CSR objectives and performance performance of the business against our goals and targets.
against targets: During 2014, we made good progress and the majority of CSR Continue to improve energy management best practices performance targets have been met see table on page 59-61 across the Group to minimise carbon and GHG emissions: for details.
New objectives for 2015 have also been set and we will Continue to develop and refine our management and reporting report on our progress against these.
mechanisms related to our other key material issues of energy security of supply, data security and customer satisfaction The year ahead will see the review of our sustainability strategy, and engagement: as our five year goals come to end in 2016.
In preparation for this, Maintain an ongoing review of market and reporting we have updated our understanding of the material issues facing requirements as they pertain to the Groups CSR strategy the Group those that will drive business success and are of and future activities in order to inform the review of the five greatest interest to our stakeholders.
year CSR targets: and Maintain ongoing stakeholder engagement to ensure Group CSR strategy and associated targets are aligned to long-term market expectations and sustainable growth strategy.
Our more detailed targets for 2015, as well as a breakdown of our performance year-on-year, can be found on pages 60 and 61 of this report.
The UK Code does not include provisions specific to CSR Matters.
58 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee continued CSR Committee calendar for 2014 January March April May July September October December February June August November Reviews of: Reviews of: Agreement on additional Reviews of: Committee report for External assessment anti-bribery training Progress against CSR objectives inclusion in Annual Report of Group CSR activities for employees Renewal of external accreditations Committee objectives PUE performance and Progress with external for 2014 effects on this of anti-bribery protocol Discussion of Group external factors Ethics arrangements Plans for enhancement and plans for their of Group Ethics enhancement arrangements including Annual review of Committee additional anti-bribery Terms of Reference training for employees Review and discussion of: Minutes of previous meetings Reports on implementation of actions agreed at previous meetings Progress against CSR objectives On-going stakeholder engagement These four issues were determined to be the most important TelecityGroup undertakes regular processes of stakeholder for TelecityGroup based on the materiality process.
We recognise that listening to our stakeholders rated of highest concern to our external stakeholders and of and responding to their relevant concerns is important to our the greatest impact on the business according to senior long term success.
We seek the views of stakeholders through management.
There were, of course, a large number of other such mechanisms as employee surveys, investor meetings, issues that were considered in the materiality process, but these participation in industry forums, and responding to customer were not prioritised as high interest high impact issues.
In addition to this ongoing dialogue, during 2014 we continue to manage these issues as appropriate and monitor undertook more extensive engagement with representatives how issues change in importance as stakeholder expectations, of the SRI community.
Feedback from this engagement suggested the operating environment and our business evolves.
TelecityGroup should have a greater focus on materiality and in response we undertook a comprehensive materiality assessment described above.
Other examples of engagement during the year include dialogue with a leading environmental NGO on the environmental impact of the internet.
Assessing our material issues In 2014, we commissioned an independent specialist firm to conduct a materiality assessment.
In order to gain a comprehensive and balanced understanding of the companys material issues, we carried out an extensive review of our operating context, and held interviews with key internal and external stakeholders.
As a result, we have identified four material issues that are considered to have greatest impact, or potential impact, on our business and that are of the highest importance to our stakeholders.
At each main meeting At specific meetings Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 59 Our most material issues Why it is important How are we addressing it?
Suggested targets Energy Efficiency 1 It is our view that the data centre industry has We have conducted a group-wide certification Intensity Ratio CUE.
a vital role to play in creating a more to ISO 14001, the international standard for Number of sites covered  economy.
TelecityGroups business growth has a direct Adoption of, and certification to, ISO 50001 impact on its energy usage.
By virtue of the complementing ISO 14001, but with an Groups scale and expertise, IT equipment housed increased focus on best practice in energy in TelecityGroup data centres is more efficient management is now being implemented to run than if it were hosted in organisations across the Group.
Energy security of supply Some country energy grids are nearing full Ongoing: backup generators with standalone Ensuring ongoing and capacity.
Any risk fuel supplies are in place across all our facilities proactive dialogue to the security of energy supply has the ability to ensure that should a break in supply occur, with governments and to impact both our business and the data centre we have sufficient contingency measures in regulators on energy industry as a whole which could have significant place for independent power generation at security issues.
wider implications on macro-economic growth.
Mid-term: we are in constant dialogue with our energy suppliers and energy regulators about the energy security in our markets.
Longer-term: There are opportunities to explore the benefits of onsite generation in order to enhance our security and reliability of electricity supply and increase energy efficiency at our point of use.
Data security Data security is of vital importance to our We have established a robust Group Security To obtain and maintain customers.
While our services focus primarily Policy, which all employees receive training on.
certification to ISO on the provision and maintenance of data The policy is monitored and enforced by the 27001-2013 and PCI-DSS centre environments it is important that we Group Security team, and is subject to regular certification across the proactively mitigate information security risks.
Breaches in company data security have the To maintain regular potential to directly impact our ability to and rigorous security attract and retain clients.
testing and monitoring of all TelecityGroup IT systems and networks.
Complete any necessary vulnerability corrections rapidly.
Customer satisfaction & engagement The customer is at the heart of everything We actively engage with our customers on a % of customers TelecityGroup does in designing, building and regular basis to ensure that we are meeting responding to operating data centres across Europe.
Our their needs and best supporting their objectives.
customer surveys as success is predicated on providing capacity to either satisfied or We also conduct a formal customer survey to support our customers long-term business very satisfied.
gather feedback on our service and business.
We are committed to achieving the highest levels of customer satisfaction and we closely monitor the Groups performance in this area.
1 Carbon Usage Effectiveness CUE, is a metric developed by The Green Grid and commonly used by data centres globally to assess carbon efficiency.
Further details can be found in Section 3 Managing Environmental Impact.
The insights we have gained through the materiality assessment will be used to inform the management of our material issues and how we report on them going forward.
The suggested targets have been identified in order to inform discussions around setting new sustainability goals, as our current five year goals come to an end in 2016.
60 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee continued CSR targets 2014 review Target measure Why it is important 2013 Target for 2014 2014 Target for 2015 Goal for 2016 actual result 1 1 2 Group CUE kg CO kWh Carbon 0.641 Improvement 0.655 0.635 Maintain 2 annualised for TelecityGroup efficiency is of at least continuous data centre footprint a key measure 3% 0.622 improvement of broader reduction of at least 3% environmental from 2013 per annum from performance level 2011 level Workforce engagement We want our 81% Achieve 87% 80% Achieve and measured as a % of employees people to feel and maintain maintain participating in employee a strong participation participation satisfaction survey commitment rate of 80% rate of 80% to the business or above or above Workforce satisfaction Motivated 77% Achieve 80% 79% 80% Achieve a as measured by proportion people perform satisfaction satisfaction of employees agreeing with better score or score of 80% the statement in the annual above or above employee survey I enjoy working for TelecityGroup 3 4 Proportion of capital projects Business 84% Continue 86% Continue 90% of all new contractors compliant with integrity is key trajectory trajectory major capital anti-corruption protocol to successful towards 90% towards 90% projects as measured by % of total and sustainable of all new of all new major contractors capital spend covered by growth major capital capital projects by contracts contractors working on capital projects contractors value to have projects awarded during contractors by contracts signed protocol the year who have signed by contracts value to sign the protocol value to sign protocol in protocol in each year each year Customer satisfaction Retained clients 95% Maintain 92% Maintain Maintain measured as a % of customers are vital for the customer customer customer responding to customer continuing satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction surveys as either satisfied growth of the levels levels levels or very satisfied business above 90% above 90% above 90% 1 As indicated in the 2013 Annual Report, there has been a worsening of grid emission factors in certain countries due to increased use of carbon emitting raw energy sources e. g. coal for power generation.
This is shown notably in the UK which accounts for approximately 45% of the Groups carbon emissions, and where the grid emission factor has deteriorated by approximately 10%.
For 2014 TelecityGroup has reported carbon figures which include the full year impact of our emerging market locations.
These locations have more carbon-intense grid emissions factors e. g. in Bulgaria the CO e factor is 37 times greater than in Sweden and have a significant 2 impact on annualised Group CUE results.
2 Future CUE results will continue to be affected by: a acquisition of data centre assets which may operate at significantly lower efficiency rates: or b changes in a national grid supplys carbon emission factor: and c acquisition of data centre assets in countries with poor grid emission factors.
The business is currently reviewing the 3% year on year CUE target and considering whether a long-term target range may be more appropriate and informative.
The conclusions of this review will be published in the 2015 Annual Report.
3 Refers to value of all new major capital projects awarded in 2013 across the Group.
4 Excludes payments under a property lease, supply of electricity, payments for local and central government taxes, and employees remuneration.
Managing environmental impact Energy use The environmental efficiency and resilience of our data centres is TelecityGroups business growth has a direct impact on its energy a priority for TelecityGroup.
The Group is ever vigilant of the need usage.
By virtue of the Groups scale and expertise, IT equipment to take action when existing facilities, equipment or procedures housed in TelecityGroup data centres is in general more efficient require retrofitting or upgrading to improve environmental to run than if it were hosted in organisations smaller proprietary efficiency.
We have continued to make significant investment in server rooms.
this respect over the past 12 months.
We have a comprehensive The IT hardware that supports the digital economy typically programme to ensure that our newly-acquired businesses are resides in data centres such as those operated by TelecityGroup.
fully integrated and assimilated into the Groups approach to It is our view that the data centre industry has a vital role to play energy management, efficiency and sustainability.
This process in creating a more  economy.
of integration also extends to standards for quality and ethics.
Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 61 CSR targets 2014 review continued Target measure Why it is Target for 2014 2014 result Target for 2015 Goal for 2016 important Achievement Management Retain ISO 14001, ISO Achieved Retain ISO 9001, Maintain integration and ongoing systems 27001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS ISO 27001, ISO 14001, of Group-wide compliance maintenance external 18001 certification across ISO 22301, ISO 50001 and audit systems of ISO OHSAS certification all existing sites and OHSAS 18001 to retain ISO 14001, certification improves certification across all ISO 27001, ISO 9001 and standards on existing certified sites OHSAS 18001 certification all aspects of across all sites Achieve same Deferred to 2015 Achieve ISO 9001, operational certifications in data ISO 27001, ISO 14001 performance centres acquired during and OHSAS 18001 2013 were not certified certifications in data centres acquired during 2013 Achieved Continue Achieve ISO 22301 Continue certification 1 implementation in all sites process of ISO 22301 process of ISO 22301 across Group and achieve certification in Group across Group and and France achieve certification in Ireland Continue ISO 50001 Ireland achieved.
Continue ISO 50001 Achieve ISO 50001 1 certification across implementation in all sites Italy and Group and achieve across Group and Netherlands certification in Ireland, achieve certification deferred to 2015 Italy and Netherlands in Italy and Netherlands Stakeholders Maintain listing in Achieved Maintained listing Maintain listing in Achievement want to FTSE4Good in FTSE4Good FTSE4Good of external engage with CSR issueContinue implementation Ongoing Continue Achieve and sustain companies specific of Carbon Trust reporting implementation Carbon Trust Standard that have certification by methodology for of Carbon Trust certification across all credible independent TelecityGroup GHG reporting Group sites external institutions and emissions across methodology for endorsement agencies entire estate TelecityGroup GHG as a emissions across responsible entire estate business Continue to engage Continue to engage with CDP with CDP 1 Excludes sites acquired in 2013 onwards.
The Group is reviewing sites acquired in 2013 and foresees that the timeframe for planned certification of these sites may extend beyond 2016.
TelecityGroup is committed to minimising our environmental alternative that encourages further energy efficiency, whilst not impact, focusing on improving operational and management penalising companies that are helping to drive economic growth.
processes developed through our Energy Management In July 2014, the Climate Change Agreement CCA came into Programme.
This is complemented by the ongoing force, recognising the data centre industry as a vital element in implementation and adherence to the best environmental the overall UK economy, and encouraging the adoption of management practices contained in the EU Code of Conduct technologies that increase energy efficiency and reduce the for Data Centres.
Energy efficiency The CCA is a negotiated arrangement between government and TelecityGroup, along with techUK the membership organisation energy intensive sectors that are subject to overseas competition.
that represents companies and technologies that are at the It provides a reduction in some carbon taxes for participants in leading edge of our sector and a range of other operators of exchange for meeting tough energy efficiency targets.
These data centres in the UK, worked with the UK Government to replace targets are sector-specific so they can be focused exactly where the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC scheme with an they can deliver the most benefit.
To date, CCAs have delivered 62 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee continued greater energy savings among participating sectors than efficiency of data centres and explore trade-offs in energy conventional policy measures would have achieved.
Data centres efficiency strategies under various use scenarios and different have now joined over fifty other energy intensive sectors in the operating conditions.
TelecityGroup, and our industry peers, welcomed the In 2014, we recertified to the Carbon Trust Standard in the UK agreement which will drive energy efficiency through tough and and achieved a best in sector score of 92.5% for Carbon measurable targets which are to be set specifically for the data Management.
We also remain actively engaged in the Green Grid, centre industry.
The CCA encourages the right efficiency submitted data to the Carbon Disclosure Project and participated behaviours and encourages the adoption of technologies that in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index survey.
increase energy efficiency and reduce environmental impact.
TelecityGroup was amongst the first round of operators Carbon efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions GHG accepted into the CCA in late 2014.
We have reported on all greenhouse gas emission sources for which TelecityGroup is responsible and on which we are Separately, TelecityGroup was proud to be shortlisted for the required to report under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic ICAEW Sustainable Business Award at the National Business Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
For this Awards 2014 in recognition of the Groups organisation-wide purpose we have applied the financial control method.
The award recognises organisations The emissions have been reported with reference to ISO 14064-1 that have embedded business sustainability principles and 2006 Part 1 Guidance and have been externally audited by practices and are reaping the benefits in terms of improved independent energy consultants.
commercial performance, competitiveness, customer perception, staff engagement, and prospects for continued TelecityGroups total greenhouse gas emissions and intensity financial strength.
ratio for the period 1 January 2014 31 December 2014 were as follows: We were also recognised for an industry leading approach to Greenhouse gas emissions 238,305 tonnes C0 equivalent energy efficiency at the 2014 International Data Centre and 2 1 2 Intensity Ratio CUE 0.655kgCO e kWh Cloud Awards, where the Group won Best Improvement Process 2 for Energy Efficiency in the Data Centre.
1 Carbon Usage Effectiveness CUE is a metric developed by The Green Grid and commonly used by data centres globally to assess carbon efficiency.
Measuring and reporting energy efficiency 2 The intensity ratio, Carbon Usage Effectiveness CUE, is calculated from Through 2014, we further improved our environmental TelecityGroups total reported greenhouse gas emissions divided by the total kWh of IT energy consumed by the Groups customers.
management performance by continuing to introduce more energy monitoring and targeting systems and installing more Scope 1 sophisticated metering systems and energy analysis.
We continue TelecityGroups Scope 1 direct activity emissions are limited to monitor the Groups annualised power usage effectiveness to natural gas used by a few sites only, gas oil for emergency PUE which is also reported to the Board on a bi-monthly basis.
power back-up, and fugitive emissions from refrigerant.
While this important metric will remain an internal measure, These Scope 1 activities account for less than 1% of the Groups we are committed to reporting externally on the Groups carbon total greenhouse gas emissions and as they are deemed non usage effectiveness CUE measure which we introduced in 2011. material they have not been included in our reported emissions as set out in the table above.
CUE captures a combined picture of the energy efficiency of operations and the carbon intensity of the energy used.
It also Scope 2 encourages individual data centres both to improve the efficiency TelecityGroups UK carbon footprint has been independently of systems and procedures.
audited and shows that electricity imported from the grid accounts for approximately 99% of the Groups UK emissions.
Combined with internal reporting on PUE, monitoring CUE TelecityGroups overseas operations have similar emissions provides the Group with important information to compare the profiles and these Scope 2 indirect activity emissions have been reported for all countries in which TelecityGroup operates.
Ongoing checks at our data centres The emissions have been calculated by applying the published Defra conversion factors for the UK and other countries in which TelecityGroup operates.
Scope 3 We do not report on Scope 3 other indirect activity emissions, except for the greenhouse gas emissions associated with transmission and distribution of grid electricity used by the Group.
In 2014 headline CUE performance deteriorated by 2.0% 0.655kg CO kWh from the 2013 level 0.641 and is below 2 the stated target of achieving a 3% year on year reduction to 2016.
This deterioration was due to a number of factors.
The 2014 CUE performance includes the full-year impact of incorporating carbon figures from Turkey, Bulgaria and Poland following the Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 63 Groups acquisitions in those markets during 2013.
The carbon Energy security and sustainability grid emissions factors from these countries are much higher Energy accounts for a significant proportion of our spend with than those of the Groups established markets in Western suppliers and energy security of supply has been identified as Europe, reflecting the more carbon-intensive nature of the a material issue for our business.
Risk to the security of energy energy mix available in these countries.
There was also a supply has the ability to impact both our business and the data worsening of grid emission factors in some of the Groups centre industry as a whole, which could have significant wider key established markets, such as the UK, which is the Groups implications on macro-economic growth.
Some energy grids single largest CO e contributor.
As such, just under half of the are nearing full capacity and it is expected that security of supply 2 deterioration in CUE performance was due to the full-year impact will become increasingly important in the medium to long term.
of more carbon-intensive grid emissions from markets in which As such, backup generators with standalone fuel supplies are in data centres were acquired during 2013.
This deterioration more place across all our facilities to ensure that should a break in than outweighed the relative improvement delivered by the supply occur, we have sufficient contingency measures in place Groups energy efficiency programme.
Year-on-year Group PUE for independent power generation.
We conduct regular testing 1 performance improved by 3% and on a 2013 like-for-like basis and maintenance of energy backup systems.
Additionally, we are using constant 2013 grid emission factors and excluding the in regular dialogue with our energy suppliers and energy regulators impact of Bulgaria, Turkey and Poland, CUE performance about the energy security in our markets.
We recognise that sourcing renewable energy is an increasingly TelecityGroup remains committed to the ongoing improvement important part of our energy mix and a number of our data in our energy performance in spite of the challenges presented centres purchase energy from renewable sources.
However, by worsening grid emission factors, which are out of the Groups purchasing renewable energy at commercial rates that enable control.
As such, we are in the process of reviewing our CUE us to compete effectively remains a challenge, due to its targets to consider whether a long-term target range may be availability across the different markets we operate in.
more appropriate for public reporting and benchmarking of Energy efficiency is a key buying criterion for TelecityGroup energy efficiency.
We will publish our new target in next years as part of its overall assessment of the lifecycle running costs report following the results of our review.
reduction has been proposed for 2015, however we believe that a CUE performance improvement of between 1.0% and 1.5% is Water and waste more realistically achievable.
In addition to the environmental issues that are most material to the future success of the business, we recognise that there are Implementing and maintaining Group-wide energy standards other areas of importance.
For example, many new technologies Through our Group-wide certification to ISO 14001, the that drive energy efficiency will also increase water usage through international standard for environmental management systems, evaporation associated with cooling.
we are able to effectively implement and manage best practice energy management.
As we acquire businesses, our management We continue to explore our water usage performance, particularly team spends considerable time ensuring that these new facilities in those data centres with significant water consumption through are put through the same rigorous standards and improvement evaporative cooling.
We will continue to expand the measurement procedures.
This is to ensure a consistently high level of quality of water usage across applicable sites within the Group through and that systems management is available for our customers in 2015 and develop operational KPIs in this area.
We are also working every single one of our facilities.
to research the capability and methodology for recording the consumption and discharge to drain of water from public utility ISO 50001 was launched in 2011 as a best practice energy water, ground source water and harvested rainwater.
management standard to complement ISO 14001.
Certification to ISO 50001 is particularly relevant for energy-intensive Although physical waste is a relatively small proportion of the industries or those facing GHG emissions regulation or legislation.
Groups environmental impact, we are taking measures to Our intention of rolling out the new ISO 50001 standard across ensure we minimise waste, and recycle as much unavoidable the Group continues to make progress.
In addition to the sites waste as possible.
The Groups certification to ISO 14001 sets already certified UK, France and Group Head Office, Ireland has stringent tracking measures for waste management.
Most of the been successful in achieving ISO 50001 certification during 2014. jurisdictions within which TelecityGroup operates also impose Planned certification for Italy and Netherlands is now expected in legal requirements in terms of dealing with industrial waste.
We remain committed to rolling out ISO 50001 across our In 2014 we continued to make good progress managing our waste.
Our sites employ a standardised waste stream register to segregate, manage and responsibly dispose of the various waste streams, and those who manage waste have undertaken waste awareness training.
Our waste management procedure and process is well documented and we comply with local waste regulatory requirements across all our markets.
1 PUE is a measure of how efficiently a data centre uses energy: specifically the ratio of total facilities energy to IT equipment energy.
64 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee continued Driving standards across the business external audits.
ISO 27001, the information security management As well as managing our environmental performance, standard, is held across the Group, with the exception of Poland TelecityGroup continually seeks to improve standards in all and Bulgaria who are expected to achieve certification in 2015.
PCI other aspects of our business.
Data Security Standard PCI DSS certification, which represents a common set of industry tools and measurements to help ensure Group-wide ISO compliance and audit the safe handling of sensitive information and is intended to help Ensuring that the right management systems are in place is organisations proactively protect customer account data, has critical to the sustainability of our business.
TelecityGroup has already been achieved for 80% of the Groups data centre estate, continued to develop and strengthen its integrated management and will be extended across the Group through 2015.
The Group systems, enabling ISO and related certifications across the also undertakes regular and rigorous security penetration testing Group for security, quality, environmental and energy which identifies potential vulnerabilities to its networks.
management, business continuity and occupational health and safety.
The delivery of these systems is coordinated by an Ethics and compliance Operational Standards Team comprising subject matter experts We are committed to maintaining the highest ethical, professional in each area.
This team provides support to country managers and legal standards.
As well as a Group-wide Code of Ethics, to ensure they are fully conversant in what needs to be done we have a comprehensive set of policies which set out our to maintain performance improvements.
approach to issues such as whistleblowing, anti-bribery, quality, health and safety and the environment.
The Group compliance During 2014, all our sites in France and Group head office were function is responsible for monitoring compliance against our newly certified to ISO 22301, joining our facilities in the UK which policies.
Additionally, we aim to foster a culture where all had already achieved the standard.
The standard provides a best employees take personal responsibility to act with integrity practice framework to minimise disruption and maximise and for the success of the business.
recovery time during unexpected events that could bring business to a standstill.
TelecityGroup takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption in all aspects of our business.
During 2014, we Additionally, our data centres in Helsinki achieved several strengthened our systems in this area and rolled out anti-bribery new certifications, which included ISO 9001 quality training to 722 people, which accounts for 93% of our employees, management, ISO 27001 security management, ISO 14001 across nine countries UK & Head Office, Sweden, Finland, energy management and OHSAS 18001 health and safety.
Ireland, France, Italy, Netherlands, Germany and Bulgaria.
In 2015, Ireland joined France, UK and Group head office in achieving we plan to extend the training across our operations in Poland and certification to ISO 50001.
This new standard complements Turkey.
Additionally, new employees are required to complete the ISO 14001, but with an increased focus on best practice in anti-bribery training within 4 weeks of joining the company.
The Group also successfully completed a programme of surveillance audits across the year for all existing Supply chain integrity certified sites to ISO 9001, ISO 27001, ISO 14001, ISO 22301, TelecityGroup has continued to invest in the integrity of our ISO 50001 and OHSAS 18001. supply chain.
During 2014 we engaged suppliers working on capital We are committed to ensuring that the new sites we acquire also projects with an anti-corruption initiative that was first introduced achieve best practice international standards.
The anti-corruption protocol provides additional guidance found this process has taken longer than anticipated.
This has on the appointment of major contractors involved in new build resulted in some planned certifications for our operations in projects.
The protocol is designed to apply to companies involved Bulgaria, Poland and Turkey to be deferred until 2015. in significant contracts and also to significant equipment vendor relationships where major is defined as any contract value over Separately, in 2014 TelecityGroup won the Business Continuity 200,000.
We also apply the protocol to existing contractors Award for Resilience in Infrastructure run by industry publication and vendors.
Although the Group only engages with suppliers Continuity Insurance and Risk.
The award recognised the Group whom it believes conduct their business in a compliant and for taking a resilient approach to IT infrastructure, planning for ethical manner, it will continue to work to increase the number continuity as part of a larger strategy and the overall design of engaged in the Groups specific anti-bribery protocol.
There is a infrastructure with efficiency and resilience at the forefront.
certain degree of challenge engaging non-UK domiciled businesses adapting standard procedures to UK law.
In 2013, Data security we re-drafted the protocol to be more applicable across all Data security is of vital importance to our customers.
As a result, we have successfully achieved our target services focus primarily on the provision and maintenance of to implement this protocol across the business.
In 2014 86% of data centre environments, it is important we proactively mitigate all major capital projects contracted during the year were covered information security risks.
Breaches in company data security by this protocol.
This is up from 84% in 2013. have the potential to directly impact our ability to attract and retain customers.
Customer satisfaction We have established a robust Group Security Policy on which all The customer is at the heart of everything TelecityGroup does employees receive training.
The Policy is monitored and enforced in designing, building and operating data centres across Europe.
by the Group security team and is subject to regular internal and Our success is predicated on providing capacity to support our Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 65 customers long-term business growth.
We seek to engage expression: religion or belief: physical ability disability or other and work closely with our customers to understand their protected characteristics as relevant in a country.
The different needs and provide a flexible service that meets their perspectives that this diversity brings enriches debates, business objectives, both in terms of business performance and their planning and problem solving.
Two aspects of diversity that are particularly important on our We are committed to achieving the highest levels of customer Board are female and non-UK representation.
These aspects are satisfaction and we closely monitor the Groups performance measured firstly with reference to our non-executive Directors, in this area.
In 2014, our customer survey indicated that 92% of and secondly with reference to our senior management including customers are either satisfied or very satisfied with the level of the executive Directors.
We have adopted this split because all service that TelecityGroup provides.
The Group seeks to maintain appointments and promotions within the senior management this level of customer satisfaction and is committed to continuing team, as with Group employees generally, are made strictly in to report on this measure in the future.
accordance with the Groups equal opportunities employment policies.
We also monitor the split with regard to gender in the Employee engagement and development Group as a whole.
This indicates that TelecityGroups overall At TelecityGroup we understand the importance of developing a gender breakdown is similar to the national gender split in the highly skilled, committed and motivated workforce, and recognise IT sector in the UK according to published statistics.
that this is a vital factor in our continuing success.
We aim to In relation to the future appointment of non-executive Directors, create an engaging working environment where individuals can we expect to make appointments of each gender in equal grow and contribute to the success of the business.
numbers subject to the merits and diversity in general of the We offer our employees at all levels a range of training and learning available candidates.
This aim will be taken account of within opportunities.
In 2014, we continued to conduct training across all succession planning for these roles.
On this basis, as disciplines, from administration to technical staff, as we firmly appointments are made, we expect the proportion of female believe that by investing in our employees and ensuring they have non-executive Directors on our Board to increase over time the necessary skill sets, we can motivate and retain the highest towards 40%, based on the current Board size and structure.
standards and continue excellence across the business.
Health, safety and wellbeing We continue to deploy our Succession Planning Programme We aim to have a healthy and high-performing workforce.
for the Executive Team, where we have tailored specific training We recognise that effective health and safety management programmes, complementing individuals knowledge and is critical for our business and the people we interact with.
experience by working with key institutions around the world.
We take very seriously our responsibility to establish and At TelecityGroup, staff commitment and high levels of maintain safe working practices and conditions to prevent injury engagement are important elements of achieving customer or ill health to any individuals performing or affected by our satisfaction four out of five staff are in roles that are dedicated operations, together with the provision of adequate welfare to direct customer service and customer engineering roles.
To this end we have implemented an occupational Our annual employee engagement survey was completed again in health and safety management system designed around the 2014, with 87% of employees taking part.
Workforce satisfaction international standard OHSAS 18001.
This validates companies rose to 79% in 2014, up from 77% in 2013, with over three quarters that show excellence in health and safety performance, and of respondents agreeing with the statement that they enjoy demonstrates the leadership to reduce risk, create an injury-free working for TelecityGroup.
Feedback from the survey is analysed workplace and continually improve our health and safety and programmes subsequently developed to respond to, performance.
It also provides the framework to ensure we or improve on, areas that employees have highlighted as remain compliant with applicable regulation and government requiring attention.
Although this improvement was slightly below guidance and that our staff and contractors have the necessary our target we remain fully engaged in reaching the long-term goal competence, consultation and supervision to undertake their of achieving agreement with the statement above from 80% of work safely and without risk to their health.
TelecityGroup is committed to: Working days lost due to sickness and other absences are uniformly low across the Group and were consistent with those in The prevention of injury and ill health: 2013.
We do not intend to set public reporting targets around this Compliance with health and safety regulations, laws and codes data as these levels have remained at low levels for several years.
of practice relevant to each country where we operate: Board and employee diversity Consulting with staff regarding health and safety policies We aim to create an inclusive workplace that attracts and retains and procedures: talented and diverse people from all backgrounds and cultures.
Ensuring that all staff and contractors have appropriate Diversity within our business is essential in maximising its success.
competencies to undertake their work safely and without risk As a company we are committed to respecting diversity in all its to health: and forms, which means treating all employees equally, regardless of race or colour: ethnic or national origin: age: gender: sexual Catering for people with disabilities and expectant orientation: marriage and civil partnership: gender identity and or and or nursing mothers.
66 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Report of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee continued Community investment In 2014 TelecityGroup achieved recertification to the At TelecityGroup, we believe it is important to engage with Carbon Trust Standard in the UK, the worlds leading independent the communities in which we operate.
Community investment certification of an organisations impact of environmental and charitable partnerships continue to play an important role sustainability.
The Standard recognises best practice within our business and we strive to support our local achievements in energy management which enable companies communities.
The Group has a particular focus on initiatives to minimise their environmental impact.
TelecityGroup has held that promote education and opportunities for disadvantaged the Standard since 2010 and was the first data centre company children and young people.
We feel these are the areas where to be recertified in 2012.
Since then, we have continued to our business can have the greatest impact.
demonstrate our commitment to improving resource management and operational sustainability.
During the year, the business engaged with a range of charities including Action for Children and Princes Trust.
Several members of the Board hold senior advisory positions in certain charities and I am very honoured to be an Ambassador for the Alzheimers Society and a supporter of the Mahogany Opera Group.
Full details of our charitable work can be found on the Group website at www.
On behalf of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee External recognition As a result of our work to foster a responsible and sustainable company, we have been externally recognised by several independent initiatives.
FTSE4Good is an index designed to objectively measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
TelecityGroups continued membership in the FTSE4Good index acknowledges the Groups John Hughes, CBE commitment to responsible business practice.
Chairman of the CSR Committee 10 February 2015 TelecityGroup was recognised in Management Todays Britains Most Admired Companies list for 2014, and as Britains second most admired company in the Software and Computer Services sector.
Winners are identified by a peer review involving Britains top firms as well as leading City investment analysis.
TelecityGroup was recognised for its continued financial performance and ongoing expansion strategy across key European markets, including Amsterdam, Stockholm, Dublin and Frankfurt.
