12 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Our customers and why they use TelecityGroup data centres Connectivity Content SI IT services Description Connectivity companies are Internet content companies represent System integrators SI use telecoms operators, including fixed the next largest category of our TelecityGroup data centres to line networks, mobile operators, customers.
They are diverse in nature host their customers mission-critical internet service providers and content and include organisations that provide IT infrastructure.
SIs specialise in distribution networks CDNs.
digital media, such as internet video, the provision of IT systems, services These companies use our data centres music and gaming.
and applications and not, typically, toconnect to internet exchanges, data centres.
SIs require high quality, each other and their end customers, connected data centres where they such as internet content companies.
can scale their customers operations as they grow.
TelecityGroup is seeing significant growth from both global and local operators in this sector.
Group FY 2014 % % % customer colocation 31 22 14 revenues by sector What our customers say The TelecityGroup customer base incorporates many of the worlds leading telecom, media, financial and IT companies.
Criteo Groupon eTF1 Go online to see our customer stories, visit: www.
com videos Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 13 Financial Cloud and hosting Enterprise An increasingly diverse range of Hosting companies and cloud Enterprises face the opportunities financial services companies choose services operators provide technology presented by emerging technologies, TelecityGroup data centres in which platforms and services that enable mobility, big data and cloud to locate their network-intensive their customers to run their own IT computing.
These customer inamore cost-efficient manner.
legacy infrastructures, exponential deployments support a wide range Services offered by these companies data growth and cost management ofbanking and insurance services, areprovided increasingly on an underline some of the key challenges trading platforms and also companies on-demand basis and can improve they face.
Enterprises choose in-house IT systems.
the IToperating performance of their TelecityGroup data centres to end customers.
help reduce cost, manage risk and provide scalable platforms for growth and innovation.
% % % 13 12 8 Gamma Gazprom Markit Microsoft News UK Telecom 14 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategy and performance In this section 16 Our market 18 Executive Chairmans review 21 Our business model 22 Our strategy and KPIs 24 Operating review 28 Financial review 34 Risk management 36 Principal risks and uncertainties 38 Corporate social responsibility review Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 15
