Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION EMPLOYEES We rely on the combined efforts of around 740 employees to manage relationships with both our Members and Partners, and deliver a consistently high quality of service at all times.
We pay considerable attention to recruiting, developing and retaining people with appropriate skills.
We continue to recruit new members of staff through our own Assessment Centre designed to give the Company greater control over the recruitment process and to ensure we select the very best candidates for our positions.
Once they have joined, new starters go through a structured training programme to ensure that they are fully equipped to resolve any customer queries and to provide the high level of customer service that we demand.
Everyone who successfully completes this programme celebrates their achievement at a quarterly graduation ceremony, where they are presented with a certificate and champagne by the Chief Executive.
The combination of valuing and developing our staff, our service-oriented culture and the day-to-day reinforcement of our core values are key competitive advantages in enabling us to attract and retain a motivated, talented and diverse workforce.
We continue to invest in our people, and have comprehensive Manager and Supervisor development programmes, which are accompanied by selective executive coaching.
We have introduced an online learning portal to assist in the development of all our employees, and make available a wide range of Skills Builder Courses in addition to e-learning modules.
We promote from within where possible into both specialist and managerial roles.
Our monthly Employee Recognition Awards enable the Company to celebrate and reward employees who have gone over and above in the performance of their role.
We actively seek to engage all our employees in changes that may concern them, rather than just a representative few on a committee.
An example of this was while we were rolling out a workforce management system recently, when all members of staff were engaged in group discussions.
Also, when we introduced our Mission Statement to become the Nations most trusted utility company, we collaborated with each department in dialogue groups to help them frame their own personal mission statements.
We monitor employee engagement with an internal Staff Survey, which shows high levels of satisfaction: this year 90% of employees who responded stated that they enjoy working for the Company.
We keep employees informed on a regular basis of the financial performance of the business and other matters of potential concern to them, through the Company intranet, ad hoc emails, the monthly Company newsletter and quarterly breakfast forums with the Chief Executive.
We operate an open-door policy throughout the business, provide employees with various mechanisms for providing feedback and making suggestions, and include open ended questions within the staff survey.
We have an active staff social committee which organises a wide range of events, supported by the Company, including the annual summer and Christmas parties, poker evenings, quiz nights and many other ad hoc fun events.
This year, to mark reaching half a million customers, a week of fun celebrations was organised for all our members of staff.
We also have a Fun Fund set aside for departmental social events.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 29 PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION CONTINUED We promote staff wellbeing, through an employee assistance helpline, subsidised on-site fitness classes, periodic at-desk massages, healthy meal options in the staff restaurant and a cycle to work scheme.
Each September we run our Fit Pig Week to promote health and well-being within the Company with a range of fun events and incentives.
This year we introduced a medical healthcare cash plan Medicash allowing employees to obtain cover at a corporate rate.
We continue to invest in our premises as necessary, to ensure the working environment is as attractive as possible, consistent with the practical needs of running the business.
With the exception of our logistics team, all our employees work together in Network HQ, our Head Office building in London.
We operate a heavily subsidised staff restaurant, and provide a recreation room in both our Head Office and warehouse premises.
We provide a wide range of other staff benefits including a significant discount on the services we provide, employee loans at preferential interest rates, a generous Christmas bonus scheme and recognition for five and 10 years service.
We are pleased to report that average levels of staff absence this year remained below six days per year, in line with the encouragingly low level we achieved during the preceding year.
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved employee share option plan, under which employees are granted options to purchase shares in the Company which are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The exercise price is the market price at the time of granting the option.
Our policy is to issue options to all employees after the satisfactory completion of their probationary period, and additional options when 10 years service has been completed and in other appropriate circumstances e. g. promotion.
As at 31 March 2014 there were outstanding options over 1,418,833 shares which had been granted to staff, representing approximately 1.8% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Employees returning from maternity leave with children less than 12 months old are able to benefit from a company contribution towards the cost of an external childcare service provider of their choice.
We also provide facilities for staff to purchase childcare vouchers in a tax-efficient manner using a salary sacrifice scheme, in accordance with HM Revenue and Customs guidelines.
We encourage all employees to participate in a stakeholder pension scheme operated by Aviva.
Participants can choose their own contribution level, which is matched by the Company within certain limits, depending on length of service.
During the year we implemented pension auto-enrolment in accordance with legislation and the Company is therefore now contributing to the pension funds of virtually all employees, on a monthly basis.
We actively facilitate Access to Work grants for employees who have a disability, health or mental health condition providing the practical support to enable them to continue working effectively.
DIVERSITY Full and fair consideration is given to opportunities for employment, training, career progression and promotion on the basis of each individuals ability, attitude and track record, irrespective of their gender, ethnic origin, nationality, age, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
30 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The table below sets out a breakdown of the gender diversity at various levels within the organisation: 2014 2013 MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Board 6 - 6 - Senior Managers 12 4 10 5 Employees 434 286 369 254 The Boards position in relation to the Code requirement to set out measurable objectives in relation to Board diversity is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 39.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 31
