CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT We are conscious of the role we have to play in minimising the environmental impact of our activities.
We operate an energy efficiency helpline to provide advice to customers on how they can reduce their energy usage: we enable qualifying customers to access free home insulation: we actively promote Feed-In Tariffs: and we encourage customers to monitor their energy usage by providing regular meter readings.
Since moving to an online customer application process, we have reduced the amount of printed marketing materials we are using, and seen a significant increase in the proportion of new members choosing not to receive a paper bill each month.
We participate in a waste paper recycling programme, with a certificated saving of 298 trees and 39,370kg of CO2 during the year: we also recycle all of our cardboard, and use only fsc-certified paper: our office lighting is low-energy, and controlled by motion sensors, which automatically turn off lights in unused areas of the building: our air-conditioning is constantly monitored, and is zonal to small areas, allowing close management of heating and cooling.
We recycle both mobile phones and toner cartridges, within the scope of our annual Charity Partnership.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS STATEMENT The greenhouse gas GHG emissions statement below provides a summary of the Companys greenhouse gas carbon emissions from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014.
It gives a summary of emissions from fuel combustion and the operation of our facilities which include our offices and company cars, scope 1, and from our purchased electricity use during the year scope 2.
We have adopted the operational control approach, as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition 2004, therefore emissions associated with our customers energy usage, the activities of our independent distributors and the supply of energy from Npower are not included in this statement as they are outside the Companys operational control.
GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS FOR PERIOD 1 APRIL 2013 TO 31 MARCH 2014 TOTAL EMISSIONS TONNES CO2e Emissions from combustion of fuel scope 1 57.4 Process or fugitive emissions scope 1 13.1 Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased 995.0 for own use scope 2 Total emissions 1,065.5 Intensity: Emissions per full time employee FTE 1.56 tCO2e FTE 32 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Methodology We have reported on all the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our own business activities over which we have operational control.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data gathered from our own operations, and emissions factors from UK Governments Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT During the year we chose Breast Cancer Campaign and Prostate Cancer UK as our joint Charity Partners and were delighted to support the activities of our Staff, Members and Partners in helping them raise a total of 83,000 during the year.
We look forward to raising a similar sum to help these extremely worthwhile causes again over the coming year.
HUMAN RIGHTS This report does not contain information about any policies of the Company in relation to human rights issues as it is not considered relevant to understanding the development, performance or position of the Companys business.
STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL The Strategic Report, set out on pages 3 to 33, which incorporates the Financial and Operating Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, People and Organisation and Corporate Responsibility, has been duly approved by the Board.
By order of the Board David Baxter Company Secretary 20 May 2014 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 33
