Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 67 Sustainability A sustainable Transformation 1 for a better future We are committed to ensuring that the Thomas Cook Transformation is sustainable, in support of the long-term success of the Group.
Sustainability is critical in every element of the Transformation and at the heart of our customerfocused profitable growth strategy.
Our vision for sustainability is to meet our 2 current needs and to contribute to the future of our business, the environment and the people and communities with whom we work.
In this way we will create a strong and robust business that will operate responsibly and ethically, and create value for our people and customers over the long term.
Our vision is underpinned by the Thomas Cook Business System.
Sustainable Transformation and the ThomasCook Business System To ensure the sustainability of our Transformation the Group has developed the Thomas Cook Business System TCBS and during the year we have used the TCBS framework to also structure our approach to sustainability.
The balance of this section will use the structure of the TCBS to explain the key activities and progress during the financial year ending 2014.
By working with suppliers By digitising our business, to develop a sustainable and for example, reducing 3 Jess supply chain and paper consumption, we are developing new products delivering our high tech, we are enabling profitable hightouch approach.
growth through trusted personalised products.
By engaging and energising By increasing efficiencies and Customer our employees through minimising wasteful practices talent development, we are we are becoming a leaner and at the heart enabling top to bottom more innovative business.
leadership and effective performance management.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 68 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Sustainability continued The cornerstone of sustainability is the Code of Conduct.
It defines our We recognise the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human values, our ways of working and how each and every one of us should Rights and are aligned with the UN Global Compact.
Our Code of act responsibly.
We are embedding sustainable practices in all parts of Conduct provides practical guidance for all employees on living our our business and engaging our colleagues, customers, suppliers and values and we have integrated human-rights related clauses into our stakeholders in our endeavours.
Sustainability is at the heart of how supplier contracts.
We make it very clear that this is an area of zero we behave and being incorporated into every stage of our customers tolerance for us.
We are also participating in a joint industry initiative experience with us.
During the year, sustainability has therefore to understand how we can work collaboratively towards a human become a greater part of every employees role, and every memorable rights approach tailored to our value chain and have initiated internal experience we create for our customers.
stakeholder consultations in this area.
Throughout the Annual Report we set out our significant progress to build a sustainable future in line with our vision.
In 2010, we What first shared the sustainability targets that would take us to 2020.
Transformation Since then, thousands of colleagues around the world have worked means to together to deliver some fantastic achievements.
Examples include: Engaging all employees in sustainability in the roll-out of our Code Felicity of Conduct.
Bringing sustainability to life for more than 65 million customers through consumer campaigns including the Travel Foundations Make Holidays Greener.
Supporting charitable activities and community programmes byraising more than 7 million.
Running one of the most efficient airlines in the industry with 71.5gCO per passenger kilometre, compared with an average for the 2 five largest European airlines of 93.11 gCO per passenger kilometre.
2 In recognition of the scale and pace of our industry and how intrinsically linked it is to all key socio and geopolitical trends, we are now reviewing our sustainability targets that we developed in 2010.
Over the next financial year, the Group will launch a programme to ensure we continue to focus on our material issues, and the outcomes will be communicated in our 2015 Sustainability Report.
Governance in our sustainability approaches Communications Executive We see sustainability as the responsibility for every employee and an activity that requires strong leadership that starts with the Chief Executive and her direct reports.
The Board retains responsibility for the long-term success of the Group and the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee has oversight of the consistent policy making sure Thomas Cooks for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Groups strategy, priorities and successes businesses.
Further information about this Committee is disclosed onpage 89. are shared across the Group Mindful of the value of strong governance, we established a clearly and consistently: using Sustainability Steering Group SSG in 2014.
The SSG meets quarterly innovative technology and digital and comprises senior leaders from across the business.
It provides leadership, direction and oversight to the overall approach to tools to engage and inspire.
sustainability and, to the activities of the Sustainability Working Group SWG and close stakeholder group links.
Sustainability is managed using robust policies and procedures that monitor performance and seek continuous improvement.
Related risks are governed through our risk management process and include the potential impacts of supply chain management, climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, energy costs and security, recruitment and retention of talent and sustainability of destinations and communities.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 69 benefits for their local communities.
For example, during 2014 a Profitable growth through trusted, team of eight employees, including the CEO Harriet Green, cycled in personalisedproducts 1 Prudentials Ride London Surrey 100 event.
The team raised over Throughout the year we have continued to work with suppliers 100,000 and this sum was equally split between the Thomas Cook to develop a sustainable supply chain and products as part of our Childrens Charity and Whizz Kids, a charity that works to transform ongoing Transformation.
thelives of disabled children in the UK.
We know from research that customers look to the tourism industry Key highlights to take the lead in sustainability so we continue to develop and Increased the number of Local Label sustainable excursions communicate a range of activities to both meet their expectations and by 80% inone year make it as easy as possible for them to play their part.
Our approach therefore includes sustainable choices that range from our unique Highlighted 296 hotels with sustainable certifications Local Label sustainable excursion programme through to our toour customers highlighting of responsible hotels.
Raised 1.9 million for communities and charitable activities A team of eight employees, including the CEO Harriet Green, Customers are at the heart of what we do and in order to create the cycled in Prudentials Ride London Surrey 100 event most memorable experience for them we have a diverse value chain raising over100,000 that is comprised of individuals as well as small and large businesses.
We operate a robust quality assurance programme to develop the services and standards our customers expect and have strengthened this further with the establishment of a unified Group Quality 2 Assurance Team.
We continue to build sustainability into our quality assurance approach through the use of the Travelife and EU Eco Label certification schemes.
Both schemes are internationally recognised and each provides an independent certification system which helps hotels understand their sustainability performance as the basis for implementing change and ongoing evaluation and improvement.
Thomas Cook has a long tradition of social commitment and charitable activity.
We strive to create thriving communities where our employees live and work, as well as where our customers travel.
What By collaborating with industry partners, supporting destinations and Transformation investing in communities, we are ensuring a high-quality service means to for residents and visitors alike.
We do this in a number of ways, for example during the 2014 Make Holidays Greener annual consumer awareness campaign we reached over 20,000 customers with engaging messages and joined them together with employees, Eva suppliers and local residents, to collect more than three tonnes of waste from beach cleans in 17 destinations, including Kenya 3 and Cyprus.
We collaborate with a variety of industry specialists to keep destinations special, for example, the Futouris project in Cambodia which protects irreplaceable cultural assets such as the templates Group Head of Financial Planning inAngkor Park.
Similarly, child safety and protection is central to our business and the Thomas Cook Group is fully committed to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
We believe it is our responsibility to promote The progress is tangible and safeguard childrens welfare and are committed to The Code an industry-driven international code of conduct.
The Thomas Cook the journey continues to be Group corporate charity aims to improve childrens lives by working with partner organisations.
Its remit gives particular emphasis to the interesting, and its a fantastic provision of safe clean drinking water, improving education, well-being career opportunity.
The Charity has raised over 5 million in the last five years through a mixture of sources, ranging from customer donations to payroll giving and staff fundraising initiatives.
It engages staff at all levels as all activities, no matter how small or big, create Financial statements Governance Strategic report 70 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Sustainability continued Local Labels Last summer we launched an exciting range of excursions so that customers could immerse themselves in the culture of a destination and create lasting memories of their holiday.
We call these Local Label excursions as they are designed to bring a place, its people The Sicily Cooking excursion in Italy brings local traditions to life and and their traditions to life: celebrating authentic food and drink, supports the economy there by sharing personal stories with local people, and contributing to visiting the local market to purchase the protection of ancient sites or natural habitats.
The Local Label ingredients, which will then be used in excursions generate direct benefits for local communities by a cooking class with a Sicilian chef.
helping to preserve traditional cultures and positively impacting local economies.
The Gran Canaria Premium excursion, Spain, helps support the local economy and food production with a food and wine tasting event in a village.
A trip toamuseum that showcases local handmade artisan The 100% Mayan excursion in Mexico The Turtle Time Excursion in Turkey products is also included, along brings local traditions to life and helps to support nature conservation with an opportunity topurchase supports local food production with and provides an educational these products.
a visit to a Mayan family home.
At the Turtle Rescue There is also the opportunity to andRehabilitation Centre you can experience nature and conservation seehow the turtles are nursed with a trip tothe Sian Kaan biosphere.
backtohealth before being releasedinto the wild.
This year we have significantly increased the customers can experience the natural wonders number of Local Label excursions from 40 across ona boat trip through the reserve as well as taste 23 destinations to 72 across 42 destinations, the locally grown food.
Funds from this excursion aswell as awarded our first roundtrip Highlights contribute to the purchase of food for the villagers Nicaragua with a Local Label.
This tour offers the and provide access to an organic gardener who opportunity to learn about Nicaraguan culture teaches them how best to cultivate the land to and nature by visiting a local farm and finding make the most from the natural produce grown outabout sustainable farming methods.
Funds are also being put towards developing more robust housing capable of withstanding A great example of a Local Label excursion is hurricane damage.
This gives customers an opportunity to spend time with Our customers value the new excursions, with 76% areal Mayan community whose village is of them happy to recommend Local Label to situatednear the Sian Kaan Biosphere Reserve, friends and family and 78% rating their overall aprotected area rich in biodiversity.
A local guide experience as good or excellent.
brings the stories of the village to life and Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 71 Top to bottom leadership and relentless performance management 1 Engaging our employees in sustainability is a big part of what we do.
People who are passionate about ensuring the longevity of our business and the destinations on which we depend, become our greatest advocates and will encourage similar behaviours in others, while sharing best practice across the Group.
This in turn creates top to bottom leadership and effective performance management and is consistent with the comprehensive people approach in Thomas Cook which embraces diversity, development, performance, recognition and reward.
Looking after the health, welfare and well-being of our employees is a key priority and we have forums in all our markets to monitor and implement programmes of work.
Our Code of Conduct continues to support our Values and Ways of Working and, provides a framework across the Group to guide behaviours and enable employees to conduct their work to the highest standards.
We facilitate and support employees who wish to undertake voluntary 2 work within the community or for charitable institutions.
In 2014, we have enabled 101 volunteers to spend 123 hours of volunteering time.
Our employees have a wide range of skills and knowledge which when shared, can have a big impact on the organisations they wish Communicating sustainability to support, while also increasing personal individual engagement With the launch of HeartBeat, we now have a dedicated forum for all and motivation.
employees to be actively involved in sustainability.
From regular news articles to collaboration groups celebrating the United Nations World This year our people supported the annual Flight of Dreams which Tourism Day, to interactive lunch and learn sessions.
Communications offers children from disadvantaged backgrounds, or those with onsustainability have increased and green teams within the different business segments are successfully driving a variety of sustainability special educational needs, the chance to experience a magical and initiatives.
These initiatives cover implementation of the globally recognised festive flight over the UK.
Within our Condor business, employees environmental management standard ISO14001 in the Northern European have chosen to be involved through the ConTribute Team.
This team and UK Airlines, and also include Condors charitable and community-led focuses its activities primarily on initiatives for children that also ConTribute programme, which won a gold seal award in the 2014 Mit gutem Gewissen survey by Focus and Focus Money.
involve cultural exchange, sustainable travel and support during natural disasters.
ConTribute in partnership with Help Alliance, an independent aid organisation, supports the Guarabira childrens village in Brazil.
The village fosters 70 young people who are in need of a home and education.
A Condor employee regularly volunteers 3 with the village and has used donations from the ConTribute and HelpAlliance programme to help build a new playground.
Key highlights 123 hours of employee volunteering Achieved the Gold seal award in the 2014 Mit gutem Gewissen survey by Focus and Focus Money Financial statements Governance Strategic report 72 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Sustainability continued High tech, high touch: a digital business The very essence of the strategy for our ongoing Transformation is that we are present for our customers wherever, whenever and however they want to connect with us.
By becoming more high tech and high touch, we are harnessing the power of technology to improve the customer experience, making it easier for them to select their destination, book and engage with us at every point in their journey.
A high tech, high touch approach allows us to run our business more efficiently throughout the customers interaction with us.
For example, we can use technology to provide information to our customers in more effective and innovative ways than allowed by the traditional holiday brochure by using MyAccount, the personalised, web-based functionality that supports our omni-channel strategy.
MyAccount has helped over 10,000 customers access and share personalised content such as Wish Lists, potential holiday options and self-service tools to take advantage of tailor-made offers and promotions.
By developing our digital approach we reduce reliance on paper-based brochures.
Digitising our communications In resort, two of our concept hotels have piloted innovative heat Concept hotels are a strategically important part of the Thomas Cook pumps this year.
The pumps produce cool air for air conditioning product portfolio and within this Sunwing, Sunprime and SunConnect havea long standing commitment to sustainability, with all of our Sunwing and residual heat for heating swimming pools.
We are one of the properties having achieved the EU Eco-Label and Travelife Gold awards.
first companies in Europe to use this technology in hotels and are With innovation at their core our concept hotels continue to pioneer new benefiting with a 25% average saving in energy consumption.
In May 2014, a hot spot area was introduced in each hotel reception, While in flight, electronic flight bags, rather than the paper manual replacing paper-based information with a new, responsive website.
At the equivalent, have helped us to reduce aircraft weight and so reduce fuel touch of a button hotel guests now have access to extensive and current consumption: and on land, the introduction of e-tickets has also saved resort information and have helped to save paper and replace the former two tonnes of paper used for this purpose.
The investment in a web-based tool has allowed us to modernise our sustainability data collection processes, improving accuracy and allowing more frequent collection.
The chief advantage of this modernisation is that it creates a better data quality and speeds up the cycle in which improvements can be made and enjoyed.
For example, the Groups UK head office monitored its energy consumption and was prompted to conduct a full site audit that in turn identified 81 quick, energy-saving wins.
Key highlights By digitalising the business, we have reduced paper consumption by53% against our baseline year Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 73 Efficient structures, systems and processes through lean and innovation 1 Climate change remains a global challenge and we recognise the part we play in addressing this.
According to the United Nations World Tourism Organisation Network UNWTO, travel and tourism is responsible for around 5% of global CO emissions, with air travel 2 contributing 40% towards this.
We are focused on becoming a leaner business and doing more with less to reduce our reliance on valuable natural resources and increase cost efficiencies.
This means reducing fossil fuel consumption from our airlines, and energy consumption at our corporate and retail sites to reduce our carbon footprint: managing waste and reducing waste to landfill and so enabling the reuse of valuable resources: andmanaging water consumption across our hotel chains to reduce their impact on the local water supply.
In 2013, we transformed the way our airlines work together and Managing water brought them into a single Group Airlines segment with greater Water is essential to our business.
It is used for showers, swimming pools, opportunities for sharing resources and best practice.
We have also cleaning and to grow food for the hotel restaurants.
Many of our destinations 2 are in areas recognised as being water scarce, with insufficient water invested in a new fleet and over the next three years will have 25 readily available to meet the needs of the communities living there.
new A321 aircraft with the latest engine technology and improved In order to understand how to balance the water expectations of our aerodynamics.
The new additions to our fleet will reduce fuel customers with the rights of local people and their environment, we consumption and improve noise protection.
The aircraft are also fitted initiated a pilot project in Rhodes, Greece in 2014.
We partnered with a with sharklets, on the wing tips which deliver fuel efficiency that is water expert to assess 12 of our differentiated concept hotels to identify up to 6% better in comparison with the current Airbus aircraft in the how much water they consume and what it is needed to help the hotels understand how to better manage their water consumption.
The ultimate Group Airlines fleet.
goal is to develop a water management handbook that all of our hotels canuse so that they manage and significantly reduce their water use.
For us, resource efficiency brings both environmental and cost This innovative project was awarded the Ecotrophea in the International benefits.
For example, the UK business is transforming the retail DRV Awards for Environmental Protection and Social Responsibility in business to bring the high tech, high touch approach to the high street.
Highlighting innovations in sustainable tourism since 1987, the It is pioneering new, concept stores which allow customers to browse DRV awards one initiative or project each year.
This initiative won because water scarcity is an issue in many holiday destinations, so the strengthening holiday options independently on in-store tablets, with our agents of responsible conduct with regards to this precious resource, is one of the on hand to provide advice and bring their holiday dreams to life.
most important future tasks for the tourism industry.
The jury highlighted Our programme of investing in our retail network has led us to replace the innovative approach of including indirect water consumption in the older lighting systems with new LED lighting technology, saving more project scope, the development of water footprints and the inclusion of hotel staff in the form of water management trainings.
than 1.5 million kWh electricity, reducing our carbon footprint by 800tonnes, saving 170,000 and improving the stores look and feel.
3 At Thomas Cook, sustainability is an important and integral part of Greenhouse gas emissions what we do and the way we do business.
By continued focus, involving 2014 2013 all employees and supported by the Board, we will strive to meet Tonnes of Tonnes of our sustainability vision and will create a strong and robust business CO2equivalent CO2equivalent that will operate responsibly and ethically in the generation of value Total Scope 1 Direct Emissions 3,969,957 4,124,919 creation over the long term.
Total Scope 2 Indirect Emissions 32,539 38,658 Total Emissions 3,969,496 4,163,577 Key highlights We have reported on all the emission sources required under the Airline fuel efficiency 71.5 gCO per passenger kilometre, 2 Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and Directors reports animprovement of 5.6% against 2009 Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial 35% reduction in electricity across our office and retail statement.
We only have responsibility for the emission sources that estate in one year are included in our consolidated statement.
Winners of the 2014 DRV Award for Environmental Protection and Social Responsibility in Tourism We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data from EU Emission Trading Scheme and emission factors from the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors Guidance 2013.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
