Strategic Report RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS PRIORITISING SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS For Tullow, being a Responsible Operator involves placing equal importance on above and below ground risks, and embedding this into our operational planning and delivery.
Our goal is to manage our people and assets safely and Health & Safety sustainably, minimising our environmental and social Following a disappointing safety performance in the first half of the year across our Kenyan and Ethiopian operations impacts, and to achieve the highest standards of health in particular, we implemented a strategy to improve and safety.
This involves protecting the natural and cultural performance.
This involved increased leadership challenging environments we operate in, and maintaining the health, poor performance, management, organisation, and control safety and security of our employees, contractors and of work in the field.
The key areas we identified for communities, as well as respecting the human rights improvement were leadership and clarity of accountability, of people who might be impacted by our activities.
contractor management and behavioural safety.
Our Our EHS scorecard is part of our Group KPIs and accounts occupational safety performance as measured by Lost Time for 10% of Tullows Incentive Plan TIP for Executive Injury Frequency LTIF of 0.58 improved by 28%, exceeding Remuneration.
The scorecard comprises 16 leading our 2014 target of 0.64.
Despite our progress in this area, and lagging indicators, which are actively monitored at we remain third quartile in comparison to our International operational and Board level.
Each indicator has a potential Association of Oil and Gas Producers IOGP peers.
We will value of three points, depending on whether it is fully, pursue further improvements in 2015 to reach our five-year partially or not achieved.
In 2014, we achieved 41 points target of top quartile industry performance.
out of a maximum of 48, which reflects 8.5% of a potential Land transport safety 10% award in the overall TIP awards for the year.
Land transport safety continues to represent one of the This section summarises some of the years most most significant safety risks to our onshore operations.
noteworthy developments as well as issues material In 2014, Business Units completed a gap analysis between for our business and stakeholders.
Full details of our their management approach and the Group Land Transport performance against our EHS scorecard can be found Safety Standard and associated guidelines based on IOGP online at www.
Action plans were developed to address any HUMAN RIGHTS & SECURITY IN KENYA Tullow is committed to respecting internationally Historically, access to land in Turkana has primarily been recognised human rights, as set out in the Universal affected by levels of insecurity.
Many pastoralists have Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration been unable to access some land due to an ongoing across our operations.
conflict with the neighbouring community and insecurity has also led to high levels of internal displacement.
During 2014, we have conducted an independent assessment of our current policies and practices This year we have conducted several independent against the UNGP framework and the IFC Performance security risk assessments in alignment with the guidance Standards.
This process will inform an overall Human established by the Voluntary Principles on Security and Rights policy revision which will be completed in 2015.
Human Rights VPSHRs, a convention to which we are a signatory.
In Kenya, we operate in a highly sensitive social and ecological environment.
Turkana is a remote and arid Overall, our teams in-country have a very good land with the majority of its population living as understanding of the existing operational risks and pastoralists in order to survive in this environment.
are in the process of mitigating them, as well as Water is scarce and critical for drinking, domestic identifying opportunities to support human rights use, irrigation and livestock and its availability alongside our operations.
varies seasonally, with periodic droughts.
38 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCOPE 1 CO E EMISSIONS PER 1,000 TONNES 2 LTIF RATES OF HYDROCARBON PRODUCED 0.85 0.42 0.38 0.43 0.70 0.48 0.81 0.45 0.58 198 261 98 99 118 750 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 OGP average LTIF Tullow LTIF Spills and uncontrolled releases gaps, and the Group evaluated their robustness.
Progress We failed to meet the target set for 2014 with 15 uncontrolled was monitored by the leadership and the Board but a releases of over 50 litres during the year 0.67 spills per number of actions remained work-in-progress at the end million man hours.
The volume of materials spilled of the year.
We regret to report the tragic death of a Kenyan increased significantly on the prior year 2013: 23 tonnes: Police Reservist as a result of a road traffic accident.
The majority of spills 10 involved black investigation into the cause of the incident was completed and grey waste water spilled from camps supporting our and a land transport improvement plan has been initiated Kenyan operations.
The increase was because of one large by the Kenya team.
Vehicle Accident Frequency increased spill of 702,000 litres in Turkana, involving a septic tank from 0.71 in 2013 to 0.77 in 2014. leaking into a storm water pit, which then subsequently Emergency preparedness escaped into the surrounding area.
Poor performance led In 2014, we focused on continuing to improve our established to management intervention to address the waste water crisis and emergency management programme, ensuring management with contractors in Kenya.
alignment with industry best practice.
We conducted a Carbon emissions number of risk-based exercises, culminating in a major Group GHG emissions increased by 11% largely due to subsea containment blowout scenario in November, temporary gas flaring at the Jubilee FPSO in Ghana.
Tullow designed to test our response capability at all levels in had made a commitment to the Government of Ghana and the organisation.
Our revised Oil Spill Preparedness and our investors to offtake the gas to the GNGC gas processing Planning Standard will help ensure Tullow is suitably plant, however, the completion of the plant took three years prepared, resourced and equipped to respond effectively to longer than originally planned.
Tullow avoided the need to oil spills and mitigate impacts on people, the environment, flare for most of this period by re-injecting additional gas, assets and reputation.
Guidance documents and practical but as delays continued, the reservoir re-injection capacity toolkits were also developed to aid the business became depleted and we flared in order to maintain with implementation.
Although flaring across the Group is 46% higher Water use than 2013, increased emissions from flaring were offset by While our operations in Kenya represent the highest risk reduced drilling activity and the sale of the UK and in terms of water usage, 98% of Group water usage is Bangladesh assets.
The Ghana processing plant is now currently seawater used for reservoir injection in Ghana operational and the need to flare gas should cease, 3 2014: 9,872,189 m. Group fresh and brackish water usage assuming we can continue to offtake gas to the plant.
represented 2% of our total water usage.
In Kenya, the total Tullows total scope 1 emissions, which in 2014 included demand for water is set to rise significantly when we reach gas and diesel from our offices as well as emissions from Phase-1 development and production, because water will our operations, were 764,700 tonnes COe 2013: 686,996 be required for reservoir injection.
It is unlikely that the 1 tonnes COe and 118 tonnes of COe per 1,000 tonnes of higher demand can be met from local groundwater sources hydrocarbon produced 2013: 100 tonnes COe.
Total scope 2 within our area of operations.
2 emissions were 4,179 tonnes of CO 2013: 6,174 tonnes A hydrogeological review of potential water sources across of COe and 0.64 tonnes of COe per 1,000 tonnes of Kenya has identified a number of options to meet this need.
Full details of our These options have been analysed to take account of a range Basis of Reporting can be found online.
of technical, social, environmental and cost factors and key stakeholders have been and will continue to be consulted.
This will be a focus in 2015 in Kenya and at Group level.
Group CO e emissions between 2011-2014 have been restated because of a previously overstated proportion of methane 2 in gas from the Jubilee FPSO.
Group 2014 Scope 2 emissions are reported in CO instead of CO e, as recommended by DEFRA.
