44 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sustainability continued Developing Ultras people Securing the talent pipeline Ultras focus is mainly engineering but also UK data Ultra has been committed to developing includes other STEM subjects, finance and people ever since it was formed in 1993. commercial disciplines.
Ultra also sponsors Employees 2,457 There are a number of programmes which students through their last years at school Apprentices 46 help the Group to attract the best people, via the Arkwright Scholarship.
This provides as well as encouraging students to develop students with support and mentoring University placement students 16 careers in engineering or business.
during their studies and has led to students Sponsored university students 10 electing to undertake STEM degree courses.
SCHOOLS Ultra is a recognised major sponsor of the Arkwright Scholars 10 Ultra engages with local schools near many scheme and currently has 10 scholars.
Relationships with schools US data and sixth form colleges take a variety of APPRENTICESHIPS forms: from work experience, longer work Many Ultra businesses have well Employees 1,660 placements, visits as part of AS level established and successful apprenticeship Undergraduate interns 50 courses, interview practice sessions, careers programmes, which have later provided the events and Ultra employees supporting Group with engineering leaders.
The Group New graduates 13 both lessons and after school clubs.
runs apprenticeship schemes at most of its Employees working on Examples include: UK businesses and we currently have 46 graduate-level degrees 17 apprentices in training in the UK.
Ultras ATS business received the Distinguished Partnership Award from There have been a number of notable Del Valle Independent School District for successes: this year one apprentice was a for, to promote access to all.
The Group also its outstanding contributions throughout nalist in the West London Business works with SEPnet to provide summer work the year to Smith Elementary School.
Awards and received a commendation and placements to students to help advance and another was ranked in the top eight in a The Groups NCS business has sponsored sustain physics as a strategically important World Skills competition.
the local Young Entrepreneur award, and subject for the UK economy.
the Enterprise Challenge through a NCS has worked with local engineering SUCCESS STORIES social enterprise schools initiative.
It held rms to promote the Apprentices mean A school work experience student mock interviews at local schools to help business and the Apprentice returned to Ultra for paid vacation work, develop employability skills, and hosted Ambassador network for Dorset.
was sponsored through their university industry talks with a local college.
Additionally it is an active member of the degree, completed their undergraduate Dorset Young People Forum and Dorset In Middlesex Ultra has worked closely with placement year and has begun work as a Chamber of Commerce.
Greenford High School and during this graduate for the Group period the school has reported an increase UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES One former Ultra Arkwright Scholar has in the number of students applying for As well as traditional careers fairs Ultra been sponsored through university and is engineering degrees at university.
actively engages with lecturers and faculties expecting to graduate with a first class during degree courses as the Group has degree in 2015 when it is hoped he will excellent links with universities around the join Ultra in a full-time role world.
This allows Ultra access to leading INSTITUTIONS research and enables it to form relationships Ultra businesses worldwide have a variety with students well before graduation.
The of links with their local business forums and Group benets from working with chamber of commerce members, helping universities as it can collaborate on to encourage STEM activities.
Ultras innovation and recruit students who can businesses are members of Engineering UK, make a difference.
Ultra currently has 10 Cyber Challenge UK and other bodies sponsored university students and also which research and develop new ways to provides a number of work placements as attract people into engineering careers, as part of degree courses 16 in the last year.
well as helping to forecast future trends in Ultra businesses provide opportunities for the sector.
students to work on real projects via work placements, co-operative programmes and internship schemes: all internships are paid STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ultra actively invests in and supports the training and development of its employees.
Engineering education Training and development Ultra actively invests in and supports the training and development of its employees.
Case study Each business is responsible for identifying Local students teamed up with the training needs of its employees and graduate engineers from Ultras managing its own training budget.
Precision Air & Land Systems business Employee performance and development to design a man-worn health reviews are held annually, at a minimum, monitoring system for professional and are used to identify the development soldiers.
The system monitors health needs of individuals.
Ultra has invested in aspects that the team deemed to be its Learning Academy, which is an online the most important to the soldier.
The portal, available to all of the Groups inspiration behind the project came Businesses also look for further opportunities businesses to support training.
from the news about 3 soldiers who to develop training outside of their training Specic training programmes are provided died whilst undertaking a training budget.
For example, Ultras fuel cell for individuals as necessary.
Many of these mission in the Brecon Beacons from business has received a $29,000 training are courses tailored to the specic dehydration in a record heat wave in grant from the Michigan Skilled Trades requirements of Ultra and the trainers have the summer of 2013.
The fund is designed to an intimate knowledge of how the Group provide funding to companies who are The team developed a comprehensive operates across all of its businesses.
These looking to enhance the existing skill-sets of list of the medical parameters and training events include programmes on their workforce and the business will use identied technologies which could leadership and management, along with the funds to pay for Six Sigma Green Belt help measure these key items.
Research workshops on Ultras successful competitive certication, soldering and wire harness varied from the assessment of existing strategy, strategic selling, programme certied instructor training, and products to evaluating entirely new management and systems engineering.
programming and reporting training on approaches, particularly in the area of their ERP system.
In 2014 Ultras Controls business set up water intake measurement which was a the Ultra Controls Academywhich is an key issue for the project.
The team Ultras businesses have developed inter-departmental initiative to formalise went on to identify sensors for many of corporate partnerships with engineering and structure internal training courses.
the key measurements and to specify institutions, including the Institution of Supporting drives to achieve best in class suitable technologies.
Supported by Engineering and Technology, in order to performance and be continually recognised Ultra engineers the students were able support and encourage employees to as a world-class design and manufacturing to build a final prototype of the body pursue professional recognition in the facility.
Controls has brought teaching worn equipment and programme the form of CEng, IEng, or EngTech status for practices in-house to create a more focused monitoring interface.
both their current and previous work and and relevant training environment.
To give students The value of the system to Ultra Additionally it can be expanded for all access to real-life current work challenges, Precision Air & Land Systems has been future needs, as well as, be made available and to enable Ultra employees to develop clearly demonstrated and the Head of to other businesses.
their management and leadership skills, Advanced Technology Tony White, has there are opportunities to participate in proposed submitting the system design national schemes, such as the Engineering as a bid for funding from the Centre of Education Scheme run by the Engineering Defence Enterprise.
Development Trust and competitions promoting STEM careers.
STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths 6.
Introduction 98% 60% 97% 71% 97% 75% 95% 80% 95% 81% 46 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sustainability continued Developing Ultras people Retention of Succession planning and retention Ultra has been able to appoint a high high-performers Each of Ultras businesses prepares an proportion of its leaders at Board, divisional annual Organisation, Succession and and business level through internal 100 Development Planto ensure that Ultra has promotion.
This is because the succession the right people in the right place in the planning element of the process aims to 80 organisation.
The plan assesses individuals ensure that there are always suitable 60 against their performance in their current successors for all the management team role and their potential to perform a larger roles across each business and for other 40 role in the short or longer term.
20 Assessments are recorded in Ultras Talent & As well as the people listed as successors, Succession system and give a performance each business also identies people with 0 versus potential rating for each employee.
The combined list represents 10 11 12 13 14 The system is used by businesses to ensure Ultras high-potential talent pool and is a supply of suitable talent is available when used regularly to nd the right people to ll required and recognises that any role within internal vacancies, via the Groups Talent & Internal appointments at ExecutiveTeam, Ultra may become more challenging as the Succession system.
Ultra businesses attend Divisional and MD President level % business grows.
The performance graduate and undergraduate fairs, utilising categories consist of exceed, meet, current graduates as the Groups 100 partially meet or does not meet the ambassadors.
Attendance has seen 80 standard performance level.
Equal attention applications for graduate schemes increase, is given to enhancing the performance and and this in turn helps to ensure that there is 60 retention of those who meet and exceed a future supply of engineers for the Group.
40 standard performance levels and to In a typical year, Ultra recruits over 600 new addressing the challenges of the people employees and acquisitions bring additional 20 who fall into the partially meetor does new people into the Ultra family.
Where an individual is 0 not meeting the standard performance level 10 11 12 13 14 it often means that they need to be placed in a role more suited to their talents, and in Each of Ultras which they can start to perform to the required standards, It does not always mean businesses prepares an that those individuals must leave Ultra.
annual organisation, Ultra has a high retention rate of those individuals in the businesses senior succession and management teams, who continually meet or exceed expectations in terms of their development planperformance, or who are high-potential and still developing in their new role.
The to ensure that Ultra Group is able to create its next generation of business leaders, through developing has the right people and retaining those employees identied as having high potential who will be able to in the right place take up the challenge of continuing the growth and expansion of Ultra.
For the Nomination Committees work on succession planning see page 42-45 STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths
