Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sustainability continued Corporate and Social Responsibility Ultra believes that a successful and sustainable business is built on more than just financial results.
Ultra has built a reputation for meeting its commitments and a consistent track record of development and growth.
This reputation is based on Ultras businesses meeting their obligations and the manner in which they do so.
Ultra is committed to maintaining high The Ethics Code can be found in Ultras To maintain the highest degree of standards of business ethics as part of Policy Statement on Ethics and Business impartiality, the independent members of being a responsible business.
The Group Conduct and its policies on anti-corruption the Committee are self-selecting with the strives to uphold the rights of its employees and bribery, competition compliance and appointment of the Chairman exclusively and create an honest and transparent gifts and corporate hospitality.
All of these within the remit of the independent business both internally and externally.
The policies can be found on the Group website.
The Committee meets quarterly Groups corporate responsibility initiatives www.
com aboutand provides assurance that Ultras are focused in the following key areas: us .
aspx business is being conducted in line with the Groups policies, processes and Human rights PROVIDING GUIDANCE AND relevant legislation.
It does this through The Group recognises and respects the TRAINING TO EMPLOYEES discussions with senior managers, receiving rights of not only its employees but all The Group continues to strengthen reports and visiting Ultras businesses.
The stakeholders and communities that it its policies, processes and training to Committee undertakes a formal review of encounters.
As such, Ultra adheres to all ensure employees have the clear guidance business activities during these reviews and relevant government guidelines, designed they need in identifying and managing the independent members provide advice to ensure that its products are not ethical matters.
and guidance on the appropriateness of incorporated into weapons or other EthicsPoint is a Group-wide independent, target markets and customers and on equipment used for the purposes of condential web-and telephone-based potential teaming partners.
The terrorism, internal repression or the abuse hotline, which enables all employees to Committee also considers the reports that of human rights as instructed by the UN anonymously report concerns about possible come through the EthicsPoint helpline.
Guiding Principles on Business and Human improprieties and other compliance issues.
Ultras Board requires that the Group Diversity and inclusion This is known as the Ultra Electronics should, at all times, be a responsible These values are embedded into the Employee Helpline.
corporate citizen and, as such, the Group organisation to ensure a business which is All reports registered through EthicsPoint are complies with all applicable legislation in truly representative of the environment in reviewed and responded to in a timely and the countries in which it operates.
It is essential that all appropriate manner.
The responsibility for employees feel fairly treated and are not Ethical business conduct handling reports rests with Ultras senior, discriminated against in any way.
To enable Ultra is committed to ethical business independent Non-Executive Director other this, Ultra complies with all applicable conduct.
than US security-related issues which are employment rights and legislation in the MEETING LEGAL AND ETHICAL STANDARDS routed through the directors of the Special countries in which it operates.
The Group is Ultra requires all employees, businesses and Security Arrangement Board or Proxy Board.
strongly committed to maintaining a work third parties, who act on Ultras behalf, to No retaliatory action is taken against environment which provides equal comply fully with its Policy Statement on employees for making reports in good faith opportunities for all employees, regardless Ethics and Business Conduct and with the through EthicsPoint.
Any employee found to of nationality, gender, ethnic background, applicable laws and regulations of the be in breach of the Policy Statement on sexual orientation, religious beliefs, marital countries in which it does business.
Ethics and Business Conduct is subject to status, disability or age.
This is exemplied appropriate disciplinary action.
by the formation of the Diversity working Ultra is committed to operating in group, a Head Ofce initiative lead by Mary accordance with all legislative requirements, INDEPENDENT ETHICS Waldner, Ultras Group Finance Director to including those pertaining to anti-bribery OVERVIEW COMMITTEE ensure diversity and inclusion is and corruption practices, relevant national The Ethics Overview Committee was formed championed amongst all of the businesses.
export control regulations and competition with the remit to provide independent advice and anti-trust laws.
and scrutiny of Ultras business activity, Ultra uses rigorous recruiting practices to providing assurance that the Groups current ensure the best candidate is selected, based Ultra has a corporate ethics code, which and planned undertakings are conducted in on objective requirements and assessments.
encompasses a gifts and hospitality policy.
a manner consistent with the legislative Ultra monitors gender and age diversity.
All Ultra businesses are required to report on environment and are transparent.
The compliance with the corporate ethics code Committee comprises six permanent monthly.
In addition, the Board reviews members, three of whom, including the compliance with the code twice a year.
Introduction 0.51% 0.27 0.77% 0.45 1.06% 0.56 1.14% 0.34 1.30% 0.55 48 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sustainability continued Corporate and Social Responsibility Diversity Diversity Diversity Board of Directors Senior management All of Ultra Electronics Female 14% Female 11% Female 27% Male 86% Male 89% Male 73% Disabled employees The Board reviews each businesss Environment Applications for employment by disabled annual report on health and safety Ultra is committed to putting effective people are always fully considered, bearing performance, which they are required to measures in place to minimise the in mind the aptitudes of the applicant submit, along with the result of the health environmental impact of its activities.
In the event of members of and safety audits.
is important both for its employees and the staff becoming disabled, every effort is communities in which it operates, as it will The reportable recordable accident rate has made to ensure that their employment with help to secure the long-term future of the decreased over recent years and is shown the Group continues and that appropriate Group.
These measures include both the in gure 1.
Lost time accident data per training is arranged.
It is the policy of the operational business environment 200,000 hours has been recorded for the Group that the training, career and the products and services which the whole Group since 2010 and is shown in development and promotion of disabled Group provides.
gure 2. people should, as far as possible, be PRODUCTS The reportable recordable accident rate identical to that of other employees.
Environmental considerations are taken per employee for 2014, fell from 0.77% Health and safety into account throughout a products life to 0.51%.
The safety and well-being of the Groups cycle, from concept through to disposal: employees and visitors is a key priority for each individual business ensures its Figure 1 Reportable recordable Ultra.
A healthy, committed workforce, practices and processes consider this.
accidents per employee % working in a safe environment, is necessary Businesses work with their suppliers to to achieve superior business results.
The reduce the impact of their products and to 1.5 businesses manage a wide range of safety maximise the use of environmentally- 1.2 risks, ranging from ofce employees, acceptable components.
Ultra ensures the manufacturing employees and employees full co-operation of all employees to 0.9 providing services at customer sites, minimise environmental impact and including military bases and platforms.
The maximise the conservation of materials.
0.6 Group is committed to upholding and OPERATIONAL 0.3 improving health and safety across the The Managing Directors and Presidents whole business and engaging in 0.0 of the operating businesses are continuous safety improvement activities.
10 11 12 13 14 responsible for the implementation of The safety of the products and services the environmental policy and the Chief provided to users and customers is also of Executive is the main Board member Figure 2 Lost time accidents importance to Ultra.
Each individual with overall environmental responsibility.
per 200,000 hours business ensures the appropriate legal and Where it is appropriate, individual 0.60 ethical levels of safety are met across a businesses have ISO14001 accreditation.
products life cycle, with particular 0.50 Ultras formal environmental policy emphasis on the manufacturing, in-service addresses compliance with environmental and disposal phases.
0.40 legislation, conformity with standards for All Ultra operating businesss are required air, waste disposal and noise, the 0.30 to have a written health and safety policy, economical use of materials and the 0.20 which is to be upheld at all times.
establishment of appropriate environmental Managing Directors and Presidents are performance standards.
Progress is 0.10 responsible for health and safety within monitored through annual reporting and a 10 11 12 13 14 their business and for providing adequate bi-annual external audit process, the most resource to meet the requirements of the recent of which took place in 2014. health and safety policy.
Compliance is Each site plans and manages compliance assessed through independent external with environmental requirements and the audits which take place bi-annually.
The processes for the storage, handling and Chief Executive is the Board member with disposal of hazardous or pollutant materials overall health and safety responsibility.
are reviewed on a continuous basis.
Ultra has caused no contamination of land in 2014, continuing the excellent track record of the previous five years.
0.164 0.155 0.192 0.160 0.165 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 In addition, there were no environmental Methodology Figure 4 Total tonnes of CO 2 incidents reported in the year.
In 2014, each UK business reported on the emitted t m sales appropriate greenhouse gas metrics.
These In the UK, businesses are encouraged and 9000 25 metrics were aggregated to produce the incentivised to reduce the net amount of gures reported below to which standard 8000 waste they produce.
Ultra measures and DEFRA conversion factors were applied.
20 7000 reports on its packaging waste annually and this is shown in Figure 3.
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme 6000 15 The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme 5000 The Group is working hard to address ESOS is a new piece of legislation energy conservation and emissions.
Energy 4000 10 introduced by the UK Government which consumption is measured annually and the 3000 applies to Ultra.
The scheme is run by the data compared with previous years.
2000 Environment Agency like CRC and its 5 As part of the Carbon Reduction focus is to reduce the demand for energy.
1000 Commitment CRC programme Ultra, in The first qualication phase ends on 31 0 0 the UK, is registered with the Environment December 2014 with reporting required in Agency.
An initial piece of work has been reported for 2013 14 were 8,424t CO. 2 launched which will lead to compliance.
6510 8208 8424 Historic performance data is shown in 17.2 23.6 21.9 Additional environmental initiatives gure 4.
In 2013, in addition to tracking its carbon Ultras data for 2013 14 is available on the emissions, Ultra partnered with the Carbon Environment Agencys website.
Trust to conduct a holistic Energy Review of Total tonnes of CO emitted 2 Ultras Command & Control Systems CCS by all Ultra businesses Figure 3 Packaging Waste business, headquartered in Loudwater, UK.
t m sales in UK Businesses Following on from this pilot programme the Carbon Trust has assessed a further 0.250 site, in Weymouth CEMS, in 2014.
Both 0.200 sites have begun to implement the Total tCO 2 recommendations including: replacing all scope 1 23% 0.150 light and sensors with LED technology and Total tCO 2 repairing and updating insulation and 0.100 scope 2 77% pipework.
Loudwater are also beginning 0.050 the review process from some larger projects such as a new heating system and 0.000 more efficient ventilation and heat 10 11 12 13 14 recovery.
The Carbon Trust will continue onto other UK sites throughout 2015.
Greenhouse gas emissions Ultra is committed to the systematic Ultras Greenhouse gas emissions reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
In tonnes of CO tCO 2 2 compliance with the 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Regulations, Ultra has collected and consolidated information on carbon Total tCO emitted by all Ultra businesses 20,992 2 dioxide CO emissions from across its 2 Total tCO from Ultras business activities scope 1 4,769 portfolio of 27 businesses: 2013 was the 2 first year this was undertaken and serves as Total tCO purchased by Ultra scope 2 16,223 2 the baseline year.
Ultras annual emissions in relation to Ultras business activities shown as tCO per m of revenue 29.41 2 Sharon Harris Company Secretary & General Counsel Total CRC emissions CO2 tonnes Total CO2 tonnes m sales 6.
