DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS THE FOLLOWING PAGES SPELL OUT HOW UNILEVER HAS PERFORMED FOR THE BENEFIT OF OUR CONSUMERS, WIDER SOCIETY, OUR PEOPLE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS IN 2014.
OUR CONSUMERS OUR PEOPLE In 2014 many consumers have faced Delivering our business goals requires tough conditions as economic uncertainty Unilever to recruit, develop and retain the has held back growth around the world, right talent.
We are determined to help all both in the developed markets and our people to be the best they can be, to in emerging markets.
Meanwhile help fulfil their potential and the potential consumption continues to be linked to of the business.
Training and development many of the worlds biggest problems are crucial at all levels and we strive to deforestation, climate change, water create a working environment that scarcity, malnutrition and unhealthy diets.
respects the human rights and interests of all our employees.
Ensuring gender However, each of our categories continues equality is a fundamental part of our to innovate to meet the challenges posed approach while our Purpose of making by these trends and changing consumer sustainable living commonplace is a preferences, such as products that are commitment that our people can engage sustainably sourced.
Whether its laundry with every day and make a reality through products which use less water or their work.
compressed cans for deodorant packaging PAGES 25 TO 27 with 25% less aluminium, consumers are reacting positively to our innovations.
PAGES 18 TO 21 OUR SHAREHOLDERS We aim to deliver the best possible operational performance from the SOCIETY business to deliver maximum returns to Acting alone Unilever can only do so much shareholders.
The resulting investment to make sustainable living commonplace.
case of long-term, sustainable growth Acting in partnership with others it can and improvement in returns is clear.
help bring about transformational change at a societal level to tackle the worlds How we manage our portfolio of assets major social, environmental and economic and finances is an important contributor issues.
By adopting a leadership role, to shareholder returns and reflects how and working with governments, NGOs, the business is changing to meet a more suppliers and others, we are influencing volatile and uncertain world.
change on a bigger scale, with a much PAGES 28 TO 30 bigger prize for the business on offer.
We are deepening our efforts in three areas where we have scale, influence and resources to create transformational change: deforestation: sustainable agriculture and smallholder farmers: IT TAKES A VILLAGE and water, sanitation and hygiene.
Our Flora Pro activ It Takes A Village campaign to lower cholesterol is featured on page 19.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 17
