REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE TERMS OF REFERENCE The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees Unilevers conduct as a responsible multinational business.
The Committee ATTENDANCE is also charged with ensuring that Unilevers reputation is Louise Fresco 4 4 protected and enhanced.
A key element of the Committees role Chairman of the Corporate is the need to identify any external developments which are likely Responsibility Committee to have an influence upon Unilevers standing in society and to bring these to the attention of the Boards.
Laura Cha 4 4 Charles Golden 2 2 The Committee currently comprises two Non-Executive Directors: Louise Fresco, who chairs the Committee, and Laura This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their Cha.
The Chief Marketing & Communications Officer attends the attendance at meetings during 2014.
If Directors are unable to attend Committees meetings.
Charles Golden retired as a Nona meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda Executive Director of Unilever at the 2014 AGMs in May.
items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
The Committees discussions are informed by the perspectives of the Groups two sustainability leadership groups, both of which are chaired by the Chief Marketing & Communications Officer.
The first is the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Council formerly HIGHLIGHTS OF 2014 called the Unilever Sustainable Development Group a group of experts from outside the Group who advise Unilevers senior leadership on its sustainability strategy.
The second is the Scrutiny of Unilevers Code of Business Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Steering Team the group Principles and Unilevers new Responsible of Unilevers senior executives who are accountable for driving Sourcing Policy sustainable growth.
The insights from these groups help to keep the Boards informed of current and emerging trends Review of progress on the Unilever Sustainable and any potential risks arising from sustainability issues.
Living Plan Product quality and food safety During 2014 the Committee reviewed its terms of reference of the Committee and, on the recommendation of the Committee, the Boards approved minor changes to the terms.
PRIORITIES FOR 2015 The Committees terms of reference and details of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Council are available on our website at www.
com corporategovernance and Compliance with Code of Business Principles, www.
particularly by third parties The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan: MEETINGS Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required.
The Committee progress on delivering the Plan Chairman reports the conclusions to the Boards.
Four meetings Product quality and safety were held in 2014.
Following the Committees terms of reference, Corporate reputation Unilevers corporate risks and the 3 1 goals set for individual committees, the Committee works to a structured agenda, enabling members to focus in detail on the responsibilities assigned to them.
The agenda covers the Code of Business Principles the Code and litigation as well as occupational safety, product safety and quality, the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP and corporate reputation as well as a range of strategic and current issues.
CODE OF BUSINESS PRINCIPLES The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Code and associated Code Policies which set out the standards of conduct we expect of our employees.
The Committee ensures that the Code and Code Policies remain fit for purpose and are appropriately applied.
The Audit Committee also considers the Code as part of its remit to review risk management.
58 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Committee maintains close scrutiny of the mechanisms The Committee also discussed Unilevers ambitions to achieve for compliance with the Code and Code Policies as ongoing systemic change in areas that support its business priorities.
compliance is essential to promote and protect Unilevers Unilever has defined three areas where it has the scale and values and standards, and hence the good reputation of the resources to create transformational change.
At each meeting the Committee reviews the completion its efforts to work towards eliminating deforestation from supply of investigations into non-compliance with the Code and Code chains: championing sustainable agriculture and the development Policies and progress on training programmes as well as any of smallholder farmers: and improving hygiene through trends which may emerge from reports of Code non-compliance.
handwashing, safe drinking water and sanitation.
Third parties compliance with the Code is essential for the FURTHER ITEMS protection of the reputation of Unilever and its brands.
This Other discussions during the year focused on obesity, progress on was a priority for the Committee in 2014 and remains high alternatives to animal testing and consumer confidence in the use on its agenda for 2015. of chemicals.
The systems and processes in place for managing issues such as these were also scrutinised as they are essential LITIGATION REVIEW in helping to maintain Unilevers good reputation.
The Chief Legal Officer reports to the Committee on litigation and regulatory matters which may have a reputational impact including EVALUATION OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY environmental issues, bribery and corruption compliance and COMMITTEE competition law compliance.
For further information on legal As part of the external Board evaluation carried out in 2014, proceedings please see note 20 on page 125. the Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own SAFETY performance.
Each concluded that the Committee is performing The Committee reviews a scorecard analysis of progress effectively.
The Committee agreed that the structure of its on occupational safety and product safety and quality at each meetings and its focus on priority topics were working well and meeting.
These quarterly scorecards are complemented by should be continued.
regular in-depth discussions to reassure committee members that systems and processes remain robust.
Occupational safety, particularly road safety, remains a high Louise Fresco priority for Unilever and the Committee noted considerable Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee effort has been made to counter a slight dip in performance Laura Cha at the beginning of 2014.
Further details on the USLP can be found in Unilevers online Sustainable Having discussed Unilevers policies and processes for product Living Report 2014 to be published in May 2015. safety, including incident management, members considered that Unilever adopts a systematic approach that focuses www.
UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN The USLP is at the heart of Unilevers Vision to double the size of its business while reducing its environmental footprint and increasing its positive social impact.
By making sustainability integral to how Unilever does business, the USLP provides the differentiator in Unilevers business model.
Given its strategic importance, the Committee monitors progress on the USLP and reviews any potential risks that could affect Unilevers reputation.
One of the Committees ongoing priorities is to ensure that delivery of the USLP is maintained through appropriate business strategies.
The USLP was launched at the end of 2010 and much has been learned in implementing the plan since then.
In 2014 Unilever reviewed its strategy and approach to focus its attention on the areas that matter most to the business and where its contribution can achieve the greatest impact on society.
An important outcome of this review is the expansion of the Enhancing Livelihoods pillar of the USLP to embrace commitments on fairness in the workplace, opportunities for women and inclusive business.
The promotion of human rights is an important component in these new commitments and the Committee studied the implications of the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights.
It also welcomed the launch of Unilevers new Responsible Sourcing Policy as a crucial step in promoting human rights with Unilevers suppliers see page 8.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 59
