Our People Future Leaders League started with teams from ten countries competing in 2013.
In 2014 this was increased to teams from 22 countries.
UNILEVER 2020 Critical to our success are leaders equipped to deliver our Vision and USLP.
Our new leadership programme, UL2020, based at the Four Acres site, is designed to meet this need by developing leaders with the insight and imagination to anticipate the challenges and opportunities in the world of 2020.
Guided and supported by some of the worlds top thought leaders, UL2020 identifies some of Unilevers most critical challenges and asks small, diverse leadership teams to create solutions.
These projects, called Purpose to Impact Initiatives, are structured programmes To achieve Unilevers Vision of doubling BUILDING TALENT AND LEADERS that deliver individual and wider business the size of its business, reducing its FOR THE FUTURE development consistent with our environmental footprint and increasing its Two growth drivers have been implementing commercial and social aims.
positive social impact, we need to ensure a robust talent and leadership programme the talent in the business today can realise suitable for a business doubling in size, Recent programmes have focused on these ambitions in future.
and developing the necessary skills for topics such as the Muslim consumer the business.
opportunity, leveraging mobile for Some years ago we set three priorities for our business, and linking business the development of our employees around We support these with activities that development and job creation.
They were to: together develop Unilevers capability is unlocking groundbreaking ways of and leadership, and make it an agile, working and new leadership skills, build depth of capability and leadership: flexible and diverse organisation with while delivering results that help to live our values and build a performance the right values and culture.
culture: and build an agile, flexible and diverse Engagement scores among our managers organisation.
who participated in our Global People UNILEVER HEROES Survey GPS in 2014 remain very high at These priorities still underpin everything 75%, while engagement across our whole we do.
Our people are also the embodiment employee population has risen by two of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan percentage points to 77% since last USLP without their commitment and measured in 2012. belief, the business could not achieve the plans three main goals of improving health EMPLOYER OF CHOICE and well-being, reducing our environmental Our status as Employer of Choice in the impact and enhancing livelihoods.
More FMCG sector is at an all-time high.
We enjoy than 75% of employees say they can this status in 32 countries around the world.
contribute to the USLP in their roles and This compares to just three in 2009 and 26 help realise our Vision.
This independent measure reveals our success at engaging with future leaders which has been driven in part by our Every year, our people nominate Future Leaders League.
This is a global Unilever heroes for work that brings competition in which universities around our Purpose to life.
Anila Gopal, Global the world send a representative team Social Mission Manager for Lifebuoy, of undergraduates to our Four Acres based in India, is a Unilever hero.
They are each set is helping to run the worlds largest a demanding case study to run one of our handwashing behaviour change brands, which in 2014 was TRESemm, programme that demonstrates how with a strong sustainability theme.
using soap could help save children from deadly, but preventable, diseases.
All participants interact with senior EMPLOYER OF CHOICE management, including our CEO, PaulPolman, and receive first-hand Unilever is the No.
1 most sought-after FMCG insights into business and leadership.
employer and is a Top 3 most sought-after global employer according to LinkedIns Most They learn what its like to contribute in Demand Employers Index 2014. to a business and build ideas.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 25 Our People CONTINUED PROVIDING FUEL FOR In 2013 we successfully ran the Winning The Marketing Fit To Win programme BUSINESS GROWTH Together Campaign to drive more put in place the DOIT approach which Key to this initiative has been delivering inclusive and efficient ways of working aims to drive greater interdependence the Fit To Win programme.
Activity has among teams in the organisation.
Building and improved collaboration within the taken place throughout the business to on that, in 2014 we launched a second Marketing function.
All our marketeers make it leaner, more agile and more campaign called Time Saving Idea to attended DOIT workshops to understand efficient with resources aligned behind make simplification a habit and roles and relationships better.
This is key the growth priorities.
encouraged employees to try simple to tackling barriers and achieving faster, time-saving ideas.
As a result more than brand-led growth.
We continued the implementation of 10,000 ideas were tried and rated by Project Half for Growth which is how we our employees.
In the supply chain we have taken a have been simplifying the organisation broad approach to building capabilities and our work processes.
It follows the CAPABILITIES FOR THE FUTURE for our employees.
This includes a principle of half the time, half the process, During 2013-14 we completed 30 Talent host of skills development programmes double the speed.
& Organisation assessments in 69 for blue and white collar employees.
countries, across four categories and Training in core skills is mandatory We identified key internal processes three functions, to identify global themes across 130 roles.
Skill assessments are where time and effort could be reduced.
and risks that need addressing and the completed every two years and the data A significant saving was the time spent on capabilities required.
is used to understand and address Performance & Development Planning specific gaps across roles, capabilities assessments.
By reducing and simplifying Key issues include replenishing the and geographies.
the number of steps involved, we saved talent pipeline as we promote people.
We need new talent in the business and We also ran a Manufacturing Leadership to accelerate their development.
We need Development programme to improve the Elsewhere, over 2013-14, there has been to improve mid-career attrition and skills of our factory leaders who fulfil a 51% reduction in the number of internal female attrition.
reports prepared for leadership teams, programmes have been introduced to releasing time to focus on more productive address this latter issue.
We also simplified the GPS which we ask all employees to complete annually, We also invested in building the enabling us to cut the time individuals capabilities of our people across spent completing the survey significantly.
84% OUR SAFETY RECORD strengthened travel standard that includes programmes and strategies specifically targeted at high and medium BESAFE PROGRAMME risk locations.
By the middle of 2015, By the end of 2014 we had rolled out the first we will also have in place a mandatory phase of our BeSafE programme to 84% global ban on using all hand-held and of our manufacturing sites and 38% of our non-manufacturing sites globally.
hands-free mobile phone devices while driving on company business.
This year saw considerable advancement DIVERSITY Our aim is to improve the safety and in our behavioural-based approach to Women are Unilevers core consumers, well-being not only of our employees, health and safety, with 84% of our controlling nearly two thirds of consumer but also of the wider community in which manufacturing and 38% of our spending, so its important that we represent Unilever operates, with our Vision Zero non-manufacturing sites now having them in our workforce.
In fact, 2014 marks strategy zero fatalities, zero injuries, rolled out the first phase of the BeSafE five years since we began the process of zero motor vehicle accidents, zero programme.
This includes training building an agile and diverse Unilever and process incidents, zero tolerance of 79 master coaches and 91 trainers, making sure we have the right gender unsafe behaviour and practices serving who have in turn trained more than balance throughout the organisation.
commitments, we assess and reduce By the end of 2014, over 43% of our risk through a variety of programmes, 2014 also saw some challenges.
Our managers were women, up from 38% including our continued work to address overall safety performance, as measured in 2010.
The hard work we are doing to behaviour safety, process safety, safe by the Total Recordable Frequency Rate retain more women in our workforce by travel and construction safety.
TRFR, increased slightly from 1.03 to promoting flexible working, womens 1.05 per 1 million hours worked due to networks, job shares and maternity and In 2014, we introduced a step change in a spike in injury rates in the first quarter paternity support is paying benefit and our Safe Travel programme.
With a renewed focus on will remain a focus area.
people on the road than ever before, safety programmes and initiatives, in including many in developing countries co-operation with our project partners, As at 31 December 2014, around 117,559 where there is a higher risk of car injury rates have been brought back 68% of our global workforce of 172,471 accidents, we released a revised and down since the first quarter.
employees were male and 54,912 32% female.
26 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 However, challenges remain.
We have not made sufficient progress among the top A PERFECT VILLAGE 110 executive managers in the business, a group where just under 20% are women.
A team in Nigeria looked at how to If you include employees who are statutory bring the concept of a Perfect Village directors of the corporate entities whose to life in Africa, embracing broad financial information is included in the areas such as water, health, hygiene, Groups 2014 consolidated accounts in nutrition, womens empowerment and this Annual Report and Accounts, the smallholder farming.
They developed number increases to 592 males and 157 a strategy we can take forward 21% females.
Their work took them from the classroom to the field as they We are pleased though that 36% five out brought their pilot programme to life.
of 14 of the Board are female which is over 40% of the Non-Executive Directors.
MENTAL HEALTH AND RESILIENCE In 2014 we paid particular attention to mental health initiatives.
The rising There is therefore both a business and a access to training and skills for women and incidence of mental ill health in the UK moral case for ensuring that human rights to advancing womens rights.
A key aspect is reflected in our absence data.
Help and are upheld across our operations and our of this has been our safety programme for support on nutrition, sleep, exercise and value chain.
In giving effect to our Human women and girls, with the involvement of mindfulness all improve the day-to-day Rights Policy Statement, we continue to men and boys, which we have begun at well-being of employees.
A robust raise awareness, build capacity and engage our tea plantation in Kericho, Kenya, in framework with support tools is now with others to address root causes and response to reports of sexual harassment in place and is being rolled out across provide remedies where needed.
The programme is being rolled out the organisation.
More information on our In 2014 we strengthened the enhancing progress on womens rights is in the Society HUMAN RIGHTS livelihoods ambition of the USLP.
An section on pages 22 to 24, with full details In 2014 we published our Human Rights integral part of this is our implementation to be published in our Sustainable Living Policy Statement which contains overof the UN Guiding Principle on Business Report 2014 which will be found on arching principles which are embedded into and Human Rights and our public reporting www.
com sustainable-living our policies and systems.
We also committed to enhancing in May 2015. the document can be read at www.
We believe that business can only flourish in societies where human rights are protected and respected.
We recognise that business has the responsibility to respect human rights and has the ability to contribute to a positive impact on human rights.
This is an area of growing importance to our employees, shareholders, customers, consumers, the communities where we operate and civil society groups.
We promote human rights by upholding values and standards in our operations, with suppliers and through initiatives such as the UN Global Compact.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 27
