Society In June 2014 Unilever, along with fellow members of the Consumer Goods Forum, called on heads of state for a binding global climate change deal.
In September 2014 we helped facilitate the New York Declaration on Forests at the UN Climate Summit where more than 170 governments, companies and NGOs pledged to cut forest loss by half by 2020, end it by 2030 and restore 350 million hectares of degraded land.
Also in the same month, Unilever and the World Resources Institute announced a partnership aimed at increasing transparency in agricultural commodity supply chains.
This will enable Unilever and our suppliers to use the Global Forest Watch Commodities platform to monitor In September 2015 the UN will agree a further reduces costs.
Brand reputation is forest cover change around commodity new set of Sustainable Development Goals.
supply areas and processing facilities In December Paris hosts the next major such as palm oil mills.
The close link DEFORESTATION 2014 between human development and climate A DEFINING YEAR Unilevers work in moving from commitment will focus the world on growth that is more Unilever is one of the worlds biggest to action in combating deforestation has inclusive, sustained and sustainable.
buyers of palm oil as a raw material for been recognised.
In November, we were use in a number of our Foods and Personal ranked joint first for corporate action on With this in mind, in 2014 Unilever examined Care brands.
Palm oil is recognised as tackling deforestation in our sector by CDP, where it can bring about improvements one of the four major commodities driving formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project.
on a larger, societal scale by creating deforestation, which contributes up to 15% The CDP report was produced on behalf transformational change in key areas of the worlds greenhouse gas emissions.
of 240 investors, who together represent relevant to our business.
These are: US$15trillion in assets, and analysed the We have committed to source 100% of disclosures of 152 companies from around the elimination of deforestation: our palm oil sustainably from certified, the world.
It said: Companies that regularly championing sustainable agriculture traceable sources by 2020.
We also set respond to CDPs forests program are and the development of smallholder ourselves the ambition that, by the end now identifying many more opportunities farmers: and of 2014, all the palm oil we buy would available to them, including securing their improving health and hygiene through be traceable to known sources.
On that supply chain against the risks associated handwashing, safe drinking water ambition we still have work to do but with deforestation and commodity and sanitation.
we have achieved a significant milestone sourcing.
This in turn is helping to secure in our European Foods business.
Later in this section we have highlighted new, related areas of Unilever activity under way in 2014 that are of broad benefit to society, including our work on behalf of PALM OIL IN FOODS A UNILEVER BREAKTHROUGH women, which will continue to develop in the next few years.
We now have visibility of about 1,800 crude palm oil mills, THE BUSINESS CASE representing around two thirds of all FOR SUSTAINABILITY mills in the global palm oil industry.
We Sustainability is an integral part of our can also demonstrate traceability to a business model.
It meets growing consumer consumer product, which five years ago preference for responsible consumption and appeared unachievable.
This represents retailers own sustainability targets.
It acts a considerable breakthrough for as a catalyst for innovation, thus developing Unilever and the food industry generally.
new markets, and is an inspiration to Unilevers current and future employees.
Unilever is determined to work with the palm oil industry to drive Alleviating social problems, such as the deforestation out of its supply chain.
lack of effective sanitation, safe drinking In 2014 we were able to announce a Knowing the origin of palm oil is vital water and related hygiene issues, helps significant achievement that by the end of to halt deforestation.
communities while increasing sales of the year all palm oil directly sourced for brands like Domestos, Pureit and Lifebuoy.
Unilevers European Foods business was We want to build on our progress in close to 100% traceable and certified Europe by repeating the achievement Access to sustainable and plentiful raw sustainable over 98% in December 2014 internationally.
One of the next steps is materials reduces volatility and mitigates and on track to be 100% by the end of our new processing plant in Sei Mangke, risk.
More efficient use of energy and the March 2015.
The plant is a significant development of packaging with less plastic investment to source palm oil from On a global level Unilever is working known and certified sources for our hard to drive transparency in the palm global use.
22 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE while Unilever benefits from better yields, AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF sustainably produced crops and security of SCIENCE AND SMALLHOLDER FARMERS raw material supply.
However, assessing SUSTAINABILITY In 2014 Unilever enhanced its Unilever the impact of our programmes on farmers Sustainable Living Plan USLP by livelihoods is a complex area and our introducing new pillars to its goal of challenge is to find a practical and enhancing livelihoods.
These were: fairness cost-effective means to demonstrate this.
in the workplace, where we will advance human rights across our operations and Our Unilever Sustainable Agriculture Code extended supply chain: opportunities for is used by our own suppliers to drive these women, where we will empower 5 million improvements but it is also a benchmark women by 2020: and inclusive business, for other companies and organisations where we will have a positive impact on encouraging broader change.
the lives of 5.5 million people by 2020.
In February 2014 we signed a five-year This latter commitment includes improving partnership with the International Fund for livelihoods of smallholder farmers and Agricultural Development IFAD to improve links directly to our USLP goal of reducing the livelihoods of smallholder farmers.
Unilever is one of the worlds biggest our environmental impact through Signed by IFAD President Kanayo F Nwanze tea suppliers with brands such as sustainable sourcing.
and our CEO, Paul Polman, the partnership Lipton, PG tips and Brooke Bond.
We aims to help improve food security, by are helping to safeguard the worlds Around half of Unilevers raw materials raising agricultural productivity and tea supply through an R&D programme come from farms or forests so sustainable linking farmers to markets.
In January 2014, we signed a partnership Our partnership with Nature Source Smallholder farmers produce 70% of the with our supplier, Symrise, and overseas Genetics uses plant breeding to meet worlds food and make up 85% of the development agency GIZ to source vanilla global demand while supporting worlds farmers.
Most grow their crops on from Madagascar.
The programme is set communities that rely on the crop less than two hectares and are often cut to benefit 4,000 farmers in 32 villages.
The aim is to enhance off from training so lack knowledge of how productivity, quality and overall to maximise incomes by improving their In 2014 we published our Responsible sustainability, and help stem any agricultural practices.
Many of our Sourcing Policy RSP.
The RSP embodies decline in crop diversity that could smallholder farmers are women.
our commitment to conduct business with limit its ability to withstand drought, integrity, openness, and respect for disease and pests.
Through our own supply chain, our suppliers universal human rights and core labour and our NGO partners, we are providing principles.
The RSP breaks new ground by help and training to 800,000 smallholders to defining a continuous improvement ladder introduced to the supply base through enable them to adopt sustainable practices.
to help our suppliers move from a base communications and engagement from This helps them to increase yields, increase level of do no harm to good practice and Procurement, and also through targeted profits, invest and become more competitive ultimately up to best practice and as such events in critical markets such as Brazil, is intended progressively to replace our China and Vietnam.
Supplier Code in our dealings with key suppliers.
The new code has been The tax Unilever pays is an important part of its wider economic impact and plays a key role in the development of countries where we operate.
We are supportive of international tax reform and believe public trust in tax systems for companies is essential.
We have published a set of global tax principles covering issues including transfer pricing, use of tax havens and relationships with tax authorities that represent good corporate practice.
They also balance the interests of our various stakeholders.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 23 Society CONTINUED hygiene brands, including Domestos, DOMESTOS IMPROVING Lifebuoy and Pureit, our water purifier.
We believe we can create a However, bringing about widespread, SANITATION AND SALES brighter future for our children.
sustainable behaviour change is not something we can do alone, so we need to Project Sunlight is a growing work closely with governments, NGOs, community of people who academia and funding partners to increase our reach and impact.
believe it is possible to build a world where everyone lives In 2014 we committed to help 25 million people gain improved access to a toilet well and lives sustainably.
By helping people who dont The campaign continues to have a toilet to get one and by promoting the benefits of using a clean toilet, we will engage people in programmes Domestos has led our efforts on open new markets and drive demand for that can help to contribute sanitation in partnership with UNICEF.
Our brand, together with the Unilever to a #brightfuture almost Foundation, supports UNICEFs Lifebuoy has long championed the health 180 million acts of sunlight Community Approaches to Total benefits of handwashing with soap and Sanitation CATS programme which aims to change the hygiene behaviour of were pledged by the end of aims to eliminate open defecation 1 billion consumers across Asia, Africa December 2014. by changing peoples behaviour and and Latin America.
To achieve this promoting demand for sanitation.
ambition, we have to find ways to scale up www.
com Domestos contributed 5% of its our programmes: we need to develop average proceeds from specially lower cost, mass-scale behaviour change marked bottles on sale in certain approaches and expand our partnerships For instance in Sekondi, Ghana, a markets to UNICEF.
Domestos sales and co-investment models.
Lifebuoy three-day workshop by the Unilever Ghana continue to grow strongly and were has enjoyed four years of sequential Foundation taught 60 women how to think up 7.3% in 2014. double-digit sales growth.
and act like entrepreneurs, coached them in bookkeeping procedures, and cash and EMPOWERING WOMEN working capital management.
This brings WATER, SANITATION AND HYGIENE Women are the majority of our consumer to more than 700 the number of women In his first Independence Day address in base and their purchasing decisions are trained in Ghana and supports Unilevers 2014, Narendra Modi, Indias new Prime pivotal to our growth.
They are strongly commitment to empower 5 million Minister, made a commitment that by 2019 represented in our agricultural supply women by 2020. every Indian would have access to a toilet.
chains and in the distribution of our brands The promise highlights that about 2.5 billion to market.
At the same time we are a large To date we have trained and recruited people globally are without access to employer and need the best available talent more than 3,400 women from nearly 1,100 adequate sanitation, good hygiene and safe to succeed in our business goals.
villages in Pakistan as part of the Guddi Baji drinking water.
There are still 46 countries Good Sister programme.
This initiative in the world where less than half the But women around the world face helps increase sales as well as generating population has access to adequate discrimination and disadvantage, lack sustainable incomes for women through sanitation facilities.
800,000 children die access to skills and training, and face the sale of Unilever hygiene and personal every year from diarrhoea caused by unsafe obstacles to economic participation.
care brands and through the provision of water, and poor sanitation and hygiene.
beauty services to other local women.
Our approach starts with respect for Transformational change is needed to the rights of women, such as safety, In India, recruiting and training more combat these issues.
Unilever is uniquely and extends to their promotion as well women entrepreneurs Shakti Ammas placed to help because of our expertise in as helping to develop skills and open were central to our rural expansion in consumer behaviour change, our global opportunities, both in our own operations, 2014, reaching more remote villages.
reach and our portfolio of health and where 43% of managers are women, and in our value chain.
Our programmes also help young women and men.
Our Walls team has developed a To this end we are implementing the UN youth employment programme, known as Womens Empowerment Principles across Feet on the Street, to help tackle the youth our business.
These principles reinforce jobless rate in Europe while driving our the direct action we are also taking as growth agenda by bringing ice cream to a business.
Walls provides tools and equipment, such as trikes or push carts and freezers, to enable a micro-entrepreneur to run his or her own mini-business selling ice cream and also to provide young people with their first job experience.
In Portugal, Spain and Italy, 250 seasonal jobs were also created to enhance livelihoods while boosting ice cream sales.
Our ambition is to have 50,000 micro-entrepreneurs by 2020 with a potential contribution to turnover of more than 100 million.
24 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
