Strategic report Chief Executives statement continued What we are focused on continued for large, complex offshore Oil & Gas projects, and North America, where we CUSTOMER CASE STUDY benefited from major investment directed towards the energy sector infrastructure DSME asthe shale gas opportunity drives new business for our customers.
Elsewhere, DSMEs migration from Tribon weexpect to see a number of long-term to AVEVA Marine growth opportunities unfold in Latin Industry: Marine America, through infrastructure investment Solution: Migration to AVEVA Marine driven by the liberalisation of the energy Country: Korea industry particularly in Brazil, Indonesia, India and China, and potentially in Mexico, It was particularly helpful that local where we are well positioned to capitalise engineers were located close to us.
Wehad regular meetings with AVEVA to review the status of the project and to Optimising our organisation exchange information.
Migration was a The dynamics of the markets we serve are complex project, but AVEVAs support changing.
The evolution towards tokenteam worked hard to enable a smooth licensing and the convergence between and effective implementation process.
product sets means that our solutions are increasingly including products from both The case study can be found in the AVEVA EDS and ES.
In response to this we have a DSMEs shipyard in Geoje Island World Magazine 2013, Issue 2 Photograph courtesy of DSME more clearly defined sales approach, www.
com awm 2013 2 dsme focused on Owner Operators and EPCs, where we sell the entire AVEVA product range to all of our customers.
CUSTOMER CASE STUDY Evolution of Enterprise Solutions KOSPO The industries we serve are undergoing constant change, often facilitated by Integrated Information technology which creates new ways of doing business and managing risk.
There is Management for Power Projects a major opportunity for AVEVA to exploit its Industry: Power unquestioned strength in design by helping Solution: Project Information our Owner Operator customers to manage Management with AVEVA NET the ever-changing information about their Country: Korea assets.
During the year Chevron went live with AVEVA NET on the Gorgon project, As an integrated Information Management one of the worlds largest ever LNG projects system, AVEVA NET Portal was appealing with an estimated life of forty years.
We to KOSPO for its cost-effectiveness, simple also signed a follow-on deal with another installation and easy-to-use interface.
Super Major Oil & Gas company to provide AVEVA NETs strong reputation in the AVEVA NET.
global market and positive reference cases from other companies were also key in our ES has been affected by cuts in discretionary final decision.
spend amongst Operators over the past year, which has tempered the outlook for growth The case study can be found in the AVEVA pending an improvement in the market The Samcheok thermal power plant project World Magazine 2013, Issue 2 backdrop.
However, ES products are Image courtesy of KOSPO www.
com awm 2014 1 kospo strategically essential including having a pull-through effect on sales of our other solutions.
In Korea we have made a number of sales of AVEVA NET which have driven the use and mandating of our EDS products across entire projects.
22 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What we have achieved Competitive and strategic wins Our focus on EPC global accounts continues CUSTOMER CASE STUDY to pay off.
Over the course of the last year AVEVA has seen successful wins with a AMEC number of the large global players, signing strategic multi-year licence agreements Offshore Asset Management with AMEC UK, Fluor USA and Jacobs Industry: Offshore Oil & Gas USA.
These new contractual agreements Solution: Enterprise Asset Management provide a platform for our largest customers with AVEVA WorkMate to realise the value delivered from the Country: United Kingdom AVEVA Integrated Engineering & Design solution-set as well as AVEVA Everything3D.
AVEVA WorkMate is absolutely In addition to these deals we have criticalfora well-planned and prepared continued to see increased adoption shutdown.
In years gone by we used ofAVEVA technology amongst other spreadsheets, which worked, but customers, for example Technip and Worley WorkMate is so much more effective.
Parsons, across all areas of the portfolio.
Planning and preparation has moved into We also closed a large deal in South Korea a new era with a major shipyard for our design tools which reflects their increased workload from Oil & Gas projects.
The case study can be found in the AVEVA The Dunlin A platform World Magazine 2013, Issue 2 Photograph courtesy of AMEC On track with AVEVA E3D www.
com awm 2014 1 amec A number of AVEVAs major existing global EPC customers have now licensed AVEVA E3D.
We expect these customers to begin to use AVEVA E3D on new projects CUSTOMER CASE STUDY beginning in 2014 15.
One of our Swiss OFD customers in the chemical industry migrated fully from AVEVA PDMS to How Oil Field Development AVEVAE3D mid-project, citing the benefits of generating design drawings directly from Engineering OFD is Driving the 3D model.
In China, a major chemical Down Rework Time EPC is scheduled to migrate the bulk of its Industry: Offshore Oil & Gas design licences to AVEVA E3D over the next Solution: Project Optimisation with 12months.
AVEVA PDMS Country: United States of America Delivering on our investment in innovation Utilising the technology we acquired with The accuracy of the information produced Global Majic at the end of 2012, we unveiled from the PDMS design model enables our new AVEVA Advanced Visualisation fabrication and construction to proceed Platform during 2013 which transforms confidently, with little or no rework due to operator training by enabling users to create design errors or clashes, leading to a truly immersive, multi-person environments from lean construction process.
an AVEVA Everything3D or AVEVA PDMS model, as well as models created using third-party software.
In November 2013, The case study can be found in the AVEVA AVEVA won the coveted UK Tech award The Castor Gas storage facility World Magazine 2013, Issue 2 forTech Innovation of the Year, for the Photograph courtesy of OFD www.
com awm 2014 1 amec release of its new AVEVA E3D Insight tablet application, selected from an impressive field of technology companies in the software, manufacturing and engineering sectors.
During the year we also released significant enhancements across many of 167.0m our other products, including major new Recurring revenue capabilities within AVEVA PDMS, AVEVA NET Recurring revenue remained strong at 70% and AVEVA Bocad.
oftotal revenue Provides a sustainable base to invest in R&D 23 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Chief Executives statement continued The future The challenge for us is to deliver new Embracing change North America and we expect them to Our markets are changing.
New technologies to our customers in a continue to complement our own Research well-judged and measured way, ensuring technologies, such as Cloud and Mobile, are & Development efforts.
beginning to enable our customers to that we preserve our reputation for reliability as well as the essence of what achieve more than ever before with their Efficient development Digital Assets.
More connected devices, they appreciate most about the solutions As our business scales, we need to continue we offer today.
We call this continual more data, more intuitive interfaces, all to invest in making AVEVA as efficient as it combine to mean that there are more progression and protecting the investment possibly can be.
Over the past year we have opportunities for us to add value within the our customers have already made in started a project to upgrade many of our industries we serve.
For example, by technology is fundamental to our vision of internal systems, to ensure they are able to enabling new forms of collaboration within the future.
scale as we continue to grow and handle the design department via gesture-based the increased complexity of the business.
navigation on large touchscreens and tablet Taking a disciplined approach to We expect this process to continue as we devices: improving workflows and acquisitions grow still further.
expanding our user base: integrating key We take a highly disciplined approach to the aspects of operational data back into the acquisitions that we make, and over the Summary and outlook design phase of a major project, improving years have built up a strong track record of The broad international spread of our efficiency: immersing the designer in the identifying the right assets to add value to business combined with robust underlying as-built, real world environment using 3D the AVEVA product and solution suite.
This market drivers, has once again proved laser modelling technologies, thus reducing has produced tangible results as we have effective in enabling us to deliver strong the need for reworking the design due to successfully introduced a number of underlying growth and an improvement in errors in fabrication and construction, or acquired technologies into the AVEVA profit margin, despite varied economic even using the latest gaming technologies product portfolio in recent years.
The conditions across some of the regions in to extend the use of the 3D model into evidence of this can be seen in the Bubble which we operate, and different rates of areas such as avatar-based operational View laser modelling capabilities in the expansion across our chosen markets.
training, to improve safety and reduce risk AVEVA E3D platform, which were made Thisreflects the strong competitive and cost.
AVEVA is doing all of these things possible through our acquisition of LFM position of the Group, and the value that today, and it is shaping our future direction, in2011, as well as in the recent release of our Engineering & Design and Information and giving a glimpse at the exciting range of AVEVA AVP, utilises the avatar technology Management solutions deliver to our new capabilities our customers can benefit we acquired with Global Majic in 2012. customers.
We are confident we can from by using our industry-leading Acquisitions remain a high priority for us achieve our targets for further growth given Engineering & Design Systems and aswe execute our strategy to build our our resources, technology leadership and Information Management tools.
presence in operations, and scale our the many exciting opportunities across the business around the world, particularly in markets we address.
CUSTOMER CASE STUDY OKG Creative Engineering Dramatically Reduces Reactor Outage Time at OKG Industry: Nuclear Power Solution: Asset Modification with AVEVA Everything3D, AVEVA Laser Model Interface Country: Sweden 33% When AVEVA E3D was launched, OKG realised that they could use it to further Adjusted profit before tax margin improve the efficiency of the design work The adjusted profit before tax margin improved by 90bps to 33% and to cause the photorealistic installation images and printouts used by the installation teams to be of an even higher quality and more intuitive We continue to deliver operational leverage The case study can be found in the AVEVA Okarshamns nuclear power plant World Magazine 2013, Issue 2 Photograph courtesy of OKG www.
com awm 2014 1 okg 24 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic report Key performance indicators Measuring our financial health is performing.
Taken overall, we believe that gearing and careful cost control, and We aim to deliver good sustainable growth, this range of KPIs which offers insights thefact that recurring revenue has been balanced by our need to continue to invest into our revenue, investment, profitability, maintained at 70% of total revenue.
in innovation, sales and marketing in order and cash generation illustrates the high Wewere also pleased to see strong to achieve this.
The goal is to deliver levels of recurring revenue, strong margins cashconversion of 102%, reflecting profitable growth as the business expands, and ability to convert profits to cash ourcontinued focus on working capital whilst maintaining a healthy balance sheet.
effectively that are features of our business.
We have set out a range of the financial key Particular highlights over the past year performance indicators KPIs that help to include the increase in the adjusted net present a meaningful picture of how AVEVA profit margin to 33%, through operational Revenue m Recurring revenue m R&D expenses m Consistent growth in Group revenue Recurring revenue provides visibility Investment in innovation 38.3 237.3 220.2 35.5 167.0 153.2 8% 9% 8% Constant currency 10% We have maintained Innovation enables a high level of us to maintain our recurring revenue competitive lead Strong organic 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 growth Adjusted profit before tax m Adjusted profit before Adjusted basic EPS p We adjust to exclude non-operating items We adjust to exclude non-operating items tax margin % We aim to deliver profitable growth 89.05 78.3 74.70 70.6 33.0 32.1 11% 90BPS 19% This best represents We have improved the We have delivered the underlying profitability margin whilst investing another year of solid of the group for growth organic earnings growth Solid earnings 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 growth Dividend per share p Cash generated from Cash conversion % AVEVA has a progressive dividend policy A measure of our ability to turn profits into cash operating activities m AVEVA is a highly cash generative business 102.0 95.0 70.2 27.0 24.0 60.3 12.5% 16% 7% During the year we returned Growth in cash from This reects our 100 million to shareholders operations reects a ability to convert via a special dividend healthy business profits into cash 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Adjusted profit before tax and adjusted basic earnings per share are calculated before amortisation of intangible assets excluding other software, share-based payments, gain loss on fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and exceptional items.
25 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
