Strategic Report Sustainability report Sustainability is an ongoing journey for any business.
This anniversary provides us an opportunity to reflect the journey of growth and delivery we have been on and how we have integrated sustainable working across our businesses.
1 Key highlights All Scott Wilson recommendations implemented 37% reduction in LTIFR in last four years 59% of employees received Code of Conduct and Human Rights training US$49.0 million contributed to community development, benefiting 4.1 million people Reduction in Category four and five environment spillages US$5.3 billion paid in taxes and royalties More details are included in our Sustainable Development Report www.
com Sustainable Development2013-14 Sustainability Model Over the past decade, Vedanta has been on a journey to deliver high-quality assets and low-cost Responsible operations, with sustainable Stewardship development underpinning all our Responsible governance Value will help us activities.
The development of our supports relationship to enable a license Sustainability Framework over the building to operate last few years provides us with a robust structure to deliver this Long-term supported by our three sustainability sustainability pillars Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships and Adding and Sharing Value.
This Adding and Building Strong approach also enables us to drive consistency across all our subsidiary Sharing Value Relationships companies and during the year we have further embedded the standards and processes required toachieve this.
Relationships enable us to contribute to wider society 24 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Over the last two years we have further 2 embedded the Sustainability Framework and Our success is bound to implemented its practices and standards.
To ensuring that we operate date more than 9,000 employees have been trained on our Sustainability Framework.
in the safest manner, This year, we continued providing training protecting our workforce to our management teams to ensure there was a solid understanding of the and surrounding Frameworks requirements.
We cascaded information down to our businesses, communities, and engaging providing on-site training to managers to with these communities in ensure compliance by their teams.
Now all our new projects are implemented as per a way that builds trust and our Sustainability Framework guidelines.
Vedanta sustainability assurance program VSAP 3 We are using our Sustainability Assurance Responsible stewardship Program VSAP as our assurance tool to This encapsulates our approach to managing assess the compliance of all our businesses our risks and how we conduct our business with the Framework and identify where gaps exist and how to bridge those gaps.
It also guides us in ensuring the The assurance model has 16 modules, health and safety of our workforce and how which cover environment, health, safety etc, we minimise our environmental footprint.
human rights and community elements.
The assurance system works on the premise of Building strong relationships tracking corrective and preventive action by We work hard to engage with our our subsidiaries and undertaking periodic stakeholders to understand their key formal audits by the corporate sustainability concerns and expectations of our business.
team, supported by external experts.
Proactive engagement also enables us to identify opportunities and mitigate Materiality risks by understanding and responding This year we undertook a more rigorous to issues rather than reacting to them.
1 materiality exercise in which external Engineers at aluminium smelting complex, BALCO.
stakeholders and the Vedanta Management Adding and sharing value 2 team internal stakeholders were invited, We believe our role is to create value for Computer education programme for children, HZL.
through a variety of engagements, to all our stakeholders: not just through 3 discuss the issues which were of more the financial value we create for our Tree plantation, KCM.
This has focused shareholders but the non-financial value our reporting on what matters most to we add to society.
As a business we make the people concerned with Vedanta and a considerable economic impact through is a key element in the development employment, payment of taxes and royalties of our approach to sustainability.
and building local infrastructure such as roads, schools and healthcare centres.
These engagements enabled us to identify the priorities and expectations of our Implementing our sustainability stakeholders and our management.
We framework have translated these priorities into material Our Framework provides clear, structured business issues and mapped them onto guidance to all of our subsidiary businesses the materiality matrix published in our to manage their business sustainably.
It is comprised of a full set of policies, technical and management standards and supporting guidance notes aligned to international standards including More details are included in our Sustainable International Finance Corporation Development Report IFC, ICMM and OECD guidelines.
com Sustainable Development2013-14 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 25 Strategic Report to embed a zero harm culture, with targeted programmes for our high-risk operations.
Our Sustainability report continued approach begins with hazard identification and risk assessment.
Management systems are designed to identify and remove unsafe conditions, train our people in safe Responsible Stewardship guides us in ensuring the practices and ensure correct behaviour through management leadership.
health and safety of our workforce and minimising our environmental footprint.
We have identified six Key Focus Safety Areas these are covered in detail in our Sustainable Development report and have rolled out targeted programmes to directly address those risks.
The areas were 1 identified on the basis that approximately Engineers at Jharsuguda power plant, Sesa Sterlite.
75% of incidents causing lost time due to injury or fatalities fell within them.
1 We are guided by internationally recognised standards on health and safety.
All our subsidiary businesses are obliged to ensure that their safety management programmes meet the requirements of the Sustainability Framework which incorporates guidance from the International Finance Corporations Performance Standards IFC and other relevant international standards.
In addition, 44 out of 52 sites are OHSAS 18001 certified.
Environment Environmental management forms a key component of our Sustainability Framework and is applied to the entire lifecycle of all our operations with processes mapped against international standards, such as the ISO 14001 and ISO 50001.
We disclose our environmental performance to the Carbon Disclosure Project, and our score again improved this year to achieve 82 Health and safety Lost Time Frequency Rate points and a performance grade B.
This The health and safety of our people remains per million man hours saw Vedanta ranked ninth among 31 FTSE a key focus and, while we have made many 350 companies in the materials category.
0.86 0.83 improvements in how we run our business, our rate of fatalities and serious injuries Our continuous improvement projects remains completely unacceptable and we in air, water and energy management 0.55 0.54 are saddened to report 19 fatalities this have made good progress, but the year.
Work has been done to address this business has much more to do to and we will continue to improve through meet our own challenging targets.
more rigorous training, forensic risk mitigation and constant reinforcement of Environment management our expectations, particularly by working We understand that the nature of our closely with our contractors.
Across our 1 operations has implications for the 2011 2012 2013 2014 businesses 81,000 man hours of safety environment in different ways through the 1 From this year we are reporting LTIFR operation and projects both.
training have been delivered this year and emission of particulates, wastes generated we have seen a reduction in the injury rates in mining, refining and smelting processes, during the year in line with the trend over water consumption and changes in land use.
the past five years where our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate operations and As part of continual improvement, we plan projects has reduced from 0.86 to 0.54. to obtain ISO 14001 certifications at all Whilst working in the extractive industry our sites, as of now 45 of our 52 operations inevitably brings with it an element of risk, are certified, with three additional sites Vedanta is committed to mitigating this obtaining certification in 201314.
This through a careful, diligent approach to year, in total we spent US$60 million safety.
This year we continued our journey on environmental management.
26 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Energy and Carbon policy commits Green House Gas Emissions our operations to adopt and maintain Scope I Emission Scope II Emission global best practices in carbon and energy Unit Name tonnes of CO equiv.
2 2 management and to minimise greenhouse Zinc India 4,576,813 174,083 gas GHG emissions.
Although reducing Zinc International 40,034 770,296 our GHG emissions is a challenge as the Copper India Australia 1,230,907 174,593 majority of our operating sites are in developing countries where sources of Copper Zambia 110,512 13,513 renewable energy are limited however Aluminium 18,317,289 15,419 we fully support the global campaign to Power 9,243,526 6,444 reduce GHG emissions.
The management Iron ore India 1,378,925 5,515 plans and improvement projects are Oil & Gas 1,051,143 7,347 in place to address this challenge.
We Total 35,949,149 1,167,209 calculate and report Green House Gas Inventory i. e. Scope 1 Process emissions and other direct emissions and Scope 2 purchased electricity data as defined under World Business Council for Sustainable Performance and targets Development WBCSDs and World Objectives and Targets Status Performance FY201314 Objectives and targets Resource Institute WRIs GHG protocol.
201314 Feb13 201415 Environment incidents Health and safety We strive for zero environmental incidents Achieve zero fatal accidents There have been 19 fatal Achieve zero fatal accidents and have a robust internal process for accidents.
All incidents have managing any incident that does occur.
Lessons learned are shared across Group During the reporting period, there was companies to avoid recurrence only one higher category Category 4 environmental incident reported at HZL 1 LTIFR : 0.54 LTIFR to be less than or equal to Lost time injury frequency rate operations.
The details are provided in LTIFR Operation only : 0.68 0.51 LTIFR to be less than or equal to 0.70 operational only the Sustainable Development Report.
1 Total recordable injury frequency TRIFR : 1.55 TRIFR to be less than or equal to Water and energy savings rate TRIFR to be less than or TRIFR Operation only : 1.94 1.47 Due to disruption in production at our equal to 1.7 operational only Tuticorin copper smelter, CMT, Lanjigarh Behaviour-based safety training Behaviour-based safety module Behaviour-based safety training and Goa iron ore operations and further module to be piloted at one site initiated at our HZL and Sesa module to be rolled out to other delay in the commencement of some Sterlite Jharsuguda subsidiaries subsidiary businesses scheduled initiatives, we could not achieved our targeted water and energy savings Environment during the year.
Further, our KCM mines Water Savings MCM of water Owing to disruption in production Water Savings MCM of water have had to withdraw large amounts 6.12 at our Tuticorin Copper, CMT, 2.49 of underground water due to the high Energy Savings Million GJ 2.15 Lanjigarh and Goa iron ore Energy Savings Million GJ operations and further delay in 0.83 water table in the region.
Excluding the commencement of some KCM, the absolute water and energy scheduled initiatives, the Group savings were 2.53 MCM and 1.33 GJ.
could not achieved the estimated water and energy savings.
Further, our KCM mines have had to Biodiversity management plans withdraw large amounts of Progress has been made across all our underground water due to the high businesses to engage experts and establish water table in the region.
Excluding Biodiversity management plans BMPs to KCM, the absolute water and energy savings was 2.46 MCM and meet our FY2015-16 deadline.
All our high 1.07 GJ priority sites like HZL, Skorpion Zinc, KCM and Black Mountain have either initiated the Report on Scope 3 emissions Subsidiary businesses Report on Scope 3 emissions by disclosure by 201516 established the systems and 201516 process or already have the BMPs in place.
started reporting Scope 3 emissions Waste management Our mining, smelting and refinery operations 5% increase in non-hazardous Total generation to Q3 5% increase in non-hazardous waste recycled tonnage against 10.28 million MT waste recycled tonnage against generate significant amounts of nonFY201213 FY201314 hazardous wastes and some hazardous Total recycled to Q3 wastes.
The bulk is mineral waste, generated 7.62 million MT by the mining of ore and its processing Total recycling rate 74% and the smelting of metals.
Our main priority is to reduce both the quantity Initiation of high risk Biodiversity High risk BAPs are being initiated By 201516, all sites to have BAP and toxicity of our waste, followed by Action Plans BAPs across all sites at our KCM, ZI and HZL in place recovery, reuse and recycling, with disposal subsidiaries in landfill or by incineration.
More detail Continue to monitor new projects All new projects at KCM, HZL Continue to monitor new on our performance in this area is covered and site closure as per the and Zinc International are being projects and site closure as per in our Sustainable Development Report.
Sustainability Framework managed as per framework.
the Sustainability framework Similarly, Lisheen site closure During the year, we reused 71% of nonplan has been put in compliance hazardous waste into various use and with the framework achieved our target of a 5% increase in overall non-hazardous waste recycling rate.
Achieved In progress Not achieved 1 From 2014 we require our subsidiary businesses to report on both operational and new projects LTIFR, which is a combined figure and target.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 27 Strategic Report Sustainability report continued Building strong relationships enables us to add value for all our stakeholders.
1 Performance and targets Objectives and targets Status Performance FY201314 Objectives and targets FY201314 Feb13 201415 Building Strong Relationships All sites to upgrade their existing All major sites upgraded their Implementation of SEPs to be Stakeholder Engagement Plans existing SEPs as per the monitored.
All sites to review SEPs Sustainability Framework, their needs and impact implementation in progress assessments and SEPs by 201516 Human rights training to Human rights and Code of Ensure 100% coverage of becontinued as part of the Conduct training is now included human rights and code of Sustainability Framework training as a regular part of the training conduct training for all new hires calendar calendar All sites to develop upgrade All major sites upgraded their Implementation of Grievance 1 grievance management systems existing Grievance management systems to be monitored Health check-up programmes, BALCO.
systems as per the Sustainability Framework Achieved In progress Not achieved Stakeholder engagement Managing and responding to our Community engagement We engage with seven stakeholder groups stakeholders The long-term success of our business is including employees, communities, The stakeholder engagement process SEP dependent upon building trust with our industry, host governments, civil societies, is updated as per Vedanta Sustainability host communities.
All our businesses have shareholders and investors.
Throughout the framework and is now followed for all existing implemented local community engagement year around 3,800 stakeholder engagement and new projects.
In our new projects, plans, with grievance procedures in place meetings took place, with community such as Gergarub, Namibia and Western so that any issues can be raised locally.
leaders, non-governmental organisations Clusters, Liberia, an extensive SEP process All community incidents and grievances NGOs, governments and government was followed.
This included commissioning are recorded and closed appropriately.
bodies, academic institutions and around baseline studies, holding public consultation 250 partnerships are now in place.
meetings and meetings with authorities.
Human rights Our policy is aligned to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and includes a ban on child or forced labour either directly or through contract labour.
Additionally, our Code of Conduct commits us to comply with all relevant laws and regulations, underpinning our Communities approach to protect the fundamental rights of our employees and contract workforce.
Particular attention is paid to the rights of Host Employees indigenous people and vulnerable tribes governments and a specific management standard and guidance note has been rolled out to control how projects should address this issue.
Human rights training is an integral part of our Sustainability Framework implementation, with around 20,000 man Vedanta hours of training on human rights and Code of Conduct was given in FY201314.
Shareholders Industry Further, led by the Sustainability Committee, we undertook internal reviews related to human rights and risk assessment.
The human rights audit and risk assessment review was commissioned to ensure that all our subsidiaries have a clear understanding of the areas of possible risk pertaining to Lenders Civil society human rights.
Following the assessment, it was recognised that whilst robust control systems were in place, greater visual displays of our Code of Conduct, policies and control procedures should be in place at more remote locations, where the risk is highest.
28 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Adding and sharing value with all our stakeholders is key to our licence to operate.
Employees Total Manpower as on 31st March 2014 Employment Category Gender Australia Zambia Namibia Ireland South Africa India Liberia Total Full time employees Male 102 6,632 646 332 636 17,050 12 25,410 Female 10 632 109 42 90 1,446 0 2,329 Contract employees Male 199 8,433 582 18 487 47,759 70 57,548 Female 4 834 0 6 84 1,501 15 2,444 Grand Total 315 16,531 1,337 398 1,297 67,756 97 87,731 Our subsidiaries companies namely BALCO, Gender Breakdown Chattisgarh and Odisha, reaching out to HZL, SSL-Iron, KCM & Zinc International sites 2,500 deprived children.
Further examples Male Female have recognised unions while other locations of our community programmes are covered have adequate systems and processes in our Sustainable Development Report.
Board 100.0% for employee development, appraisal, Senior management 96.9% 3.1% remuneration and grievance redressals.
Host Governments Total workforce 91.6% 8.4% We contribute to the economies where Communities we operate through payments to the We have seven discrete focus areas in Exchequer and salary payments to our Gender based attrition rates: our community programmes: health, substantial workforce, in particular in India 201314 education, sustainable livelihoods, women and Zambia.
This year, we contributed Attrition Male Female empowerment, community asset creation, US$5.3 billion to host governments by way bio-investment and integrated village of taxes and royalties.
Direct economic Full time employees 4.04% 0.88% development.
During FY201314 we benefits are also generated through the invested approximately US$49 million in employment of around 90,000 permanent community programmes, benefiting some Employees employees and contractor employees, and 4.1 million people.
One particular campaign, Our growth and success is dependent through the estimated 500,000 indirect Vedanta Khushi, has focused on raising on our employees.
We create a high employment our operations generate.
awareness of the needs of underprivileged performance work culture, investing in 1.1 children in India and as part of this, we have million training hours for all staff, averaging More information on our work with twinned with 112 schools in Rajasthan to other stakeholders can be found in 40 man hours per employee to enable support their renovation and 75 childcare our Sustainable Development Report employees to develop their potential.
This centres in rural Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, at www.
com year, we continued our spotlight on bringing .
more women in to our business, with the proportion of women in the business rising to 8.4%.
Further, we have taken an Performance and targets objective of 25% women representation at the Vedanta Board level by 2015 Objectives and targets Status Performance FY201314 Objectives and targets with no appointment made to date.
201314 Feb13 201415 We also focus on recruiting from the Training and development communities that surround our operations to Improve coverage of Code 59% of employees have been Ensuring the 100% coverage encourage local employment opportunities.
of Conduct training program trained in Human rights and of Human rights and Code Over the reporting period, the total % of workforce coverage Code of Conduct training of Conduct training for all new hires percentage of senior management who are locally hired is: India 91%, Australia Identification and mentoring of 50 leaders have been identified Identification of next set of 100%, Zambia 59%, Namibia Nil, next generation of leaders and are being mentored for the 50stars through integrated and intensive senior leadership roles Ireland 100% and South Africa 40%.
development exercises to encourage and enable an ability We also continued with our programmes to assume more senior roles and to recruit graduates: an essential element responsibilities in building a strong talent pipeline for the future.
This is augmented with our ACT-UP Diversity 50 stars of business programme which 25% women representation at Vedanta has been actively 25% women representation at identifies future ready leaders to effectively the Vedanta Board level by 2015 searching for and interviewing the Vedanta Board level by 2015 transition into senior leadership positions.
woman candidates, with no all appointments will be made appointment made to date on merit Our attrition rate for the period stands at 5% of total women hiring at 4.92%.
lateral and fresher level Achieved In progress Not achieved Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 29
