Directors Report Sustainability Committee report Membership and attendance The Sustainability Committee comprises the following Directors and met on four occasions during the year.
Number of meetings Percentage attended attendance Naresh Chandra, Chair stepped down August 2013 1 1 100% Euan Macdonald, Chair appointed August 2013 3 3 100% MS Mehta stepped down April 2014 4 4 100% Jeyakumar Janakaraj stepped down May 2013 1 1 100% Kishore Kumar appointed September 2013 3 3 100% Tom Albanese was appointed to the Sustainability Committee on 1April 2014.
Responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee The responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee are set out in its terms of reference which are available on the Companys website at Euan Macdonald, Chairman, Sustainability Committee www.
com and from the Company Secretary.
The Chief Sustainability Officer acted as secretary of the Committee and Group subsidiary company Chief Executives or their representatives were invited to attend the meetings.
This Report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the The main responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee are: Sustainability Committee and the work it has undertaken during To recommend Group sustainability policies to the Board, clearly theyear.
setting out the commitments of the Group to manage matters of sustainable development effectively.
This year I was pleased to assume the Chairmanship of Vedantas To advise the Board on sustainability issues to enable it to discharge Sustainability Committee.
In overseeing my responsibilities as laid its responsibilities, having regard to the law and the expected down by the Board and in managing Vedantas business sustainably, international standards of governance.
Iwill be guided by the three pillars of Responsible Stewardship, To outline initiatives required to institutionalise a sustainability Building Strong Relationships and Adding and Sharing Value, which culture through the involvement of employees at all levels.
together have proven to be a valuable model for the Companys To review and report to the Board on the performance of the Group sustainable growth.
with respect to the implementation of a sustainability framework.
Over the course of the year, the Committee was particularly concerned to focus on the unacceptably high number of fatalities suffered across our business: to understand their root causes and to monitor the business response through the Key Safety Focus Areas programme, launched to strengthen our mitigation of safety risks.
The Committee also recognised that subsidiary businesses needed to improve their stakeholder engagement and change management processes.
We recommended that with regards to human rights and child labour compliance subsidiaries businesses need to be extra vigilant at the loading and unloading operations in remote areas.
Water, energy and waste consumption targets were also reviewed by the Committee and we emphasised the importance of having robust plans to ensure these targets are met.
The Committee further recommended the hiring of a Group safety adviser to help and support Group companies on the safety related issue.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank management across our subsidiary businesses for their commitment to VSAP, which has been a demanding exercise.
100 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Sustainability Committee activities during the year The main areas of activity of the Sustainability Committee during the year are summarised below: Area of responsibility Item Sustainability framework Providing oversight of the progress made on the development of the sustainability model and framework.
Overseeing the action plan emerging from Vedantas Sustainability Assurance programme VSAP.
Review and approval of sustainability objectives and targets.
Health and safety Review of safety statistics and incidents.
Monitoring and follow up of action plans in respect of fatal accidents.
Review of Key Safety Focus Area 201314. Review of Behavioral safety initiatives at HZL.
Environment Reviewing the Groups initiatives for reduction in specific water and energy consumption.
Monitoring and follow up of higher category environment incident.
Review of waste utilisation plans and statistics.
System development systems and performance reporting Reviewing the implementation of Scott Wilson recommendations.
Review of Group SAP-EHS IT Solution.
Review of performance evaluation of the Sustainability Committee and review of terms of reference.
Review and approval of the Groups Sustainable Development Report 201213.
Community engagement Overseeing the internal risk assessment on human rights and childlabour.
Review of expectations cited by stakeholders during the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Details on each of the above initiatives can be found in the Companys Sustainability Report 201314 and on the Companys website at www.
Euan Macdonald Chairman, Sustainability Committee 14 May 2014 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 101
