44 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Vesuvius employs nearly 12,000 people, Integrity At the heart of our promise lies the Understanding and meeting with manufacturing facilities in 26 countries, trustworthiness of all Vesuvius employees our responsibilities enhances our serving customers all over the globe.
Our in their acts and words.
We recognise that employees engagement with our values, and transparency are essential in all our strategy and culture is vital to the success of exchanges.
our operations impact a wide the Group.
community of stakeholders, Embracing diversity Vesuvius is a global Our values Company built upon a true respect for local including investors, employees, customs and experience.
We recognise and customers, business associates Our five corporate values, which direct our embrace the potential for creativity that everyday behaviour at work, are: and local communities, and comes from the coexistence of so many that appropriate attention to different cultures.
creativity Our commitment to technology and quality is the basis for our competitive the fulfilment of our corporate The best examples of how our employees advantage.
Creativity allows us to develop responsibilities supports the demonstrate our values are celebrated innovative solutions and continuous once a year during the Living The Values creation of long-term value improvements that generate value through LTV Awards ceremony which brings for our shareholders.
together employees from around the globe cooperation Encouraging internal and to celebrate their outstanding individual external cooperation is the behaviour which contribution to the implementation of enables us to create unique solutions with our Vesuvius values.
Through cooperation, each Vesuvius code of conduct employee is committed to the success of their community of colleagues and customers.
Vesuvius has a Code of Conduct, which has been distributed throughout the Group and Reliability Our solutions involve us in critical by which all our businesses are required to aspects of our customers manufacturing operate.
The Code of Conduct emphasises processes.
Our commitment to deliver the Groups commitment to compliance consistent products and service gives them with the highest standards of legal and the level of confidence they require.
The Code of Conduct sets out clear and simple principles covering: customers, products and services: employees: investors: society and local communities: health, safety and the environment: conflicts of interest: and competitors.
Maintaining a reputation for integrity in all business and other dealings both with customers and suppliers remains critical to Vesuvius.
Vesuvius LTV awards 2014 a selection committee and the best Each year, every employee can selected for recognition at our LTV nominate another employee or team Awards ceremony.
to recognise exemplary working 20 awards were made in 2014, behaviour in line with our values.
bringing together employees from In 2014, over 100 nominations were all geographies of our business to received.
These were reviewed by celebrate the Vesuvius values.
Our respOnsibility 45 The Code of Conduct recognises that corporate citizenship and Human Rights the pursuit of the highest possible ethical Vesuvius seeks to be a good corporate citizen standards must be as much a part of our wherever it does business and respects local culture as any other facet of our operations, concerns, customs and traditions.
and emphasises our commitment to the performance of our business in accordance The Group has a Human Rights Policy, with these standards.
which supplements the Code of Conduct and has been approved by the Board.
It The Code of Conduct is available on the reflects principles contained within the Companys website www.
United Nations Universal Declaration of The Company operates a business concern Human Rights, the International Labour helpline where employees can raise concerns Organisations Fundamental Conventions on anonymously, if they wish, knowing that Labour Standards and the United Nations these will be investigated and acted upon.
No employee will ever be penalised or The Policy is applicable to all employees of disadvantaged for reporting a legitimate Vesuvius and its subsidiaries.
principles for our actions and behaviour in Training programme conducting our business affairs and provides guidance to those working for us on how we During the year we continued to expand our approach human rights issues.
training programme on the Code of Conduct and associated anti-bribery and corruption The Policy sets out the Groups commitment policies.
This comprises face-to-face training not to discriminate in any of our employee and use of an e-learning module.
To date practices and to offer equal opportunities more than 2,500 employees have been to all.
The Group respects the principles of trained on anti-bribery and corruption issues, freedom of association and the effective focusing particularly on those who work with recognition of the right to collective customers, suppliers and public officials.
We bargaining and opposes the use of, and will continue to develop this process to help our not use, forced, compulsory or child labour.
staff and counterparties to understand that bribery and corruption will not be tolerated in the performance of our business.
Unicycling in china worked in partnership with the One of the four projects introduced Suzhou Industrial Park Youth & as part of the well established Children Centre to provide free after Vesuvius China Energising CSR school sports and entertainment programme where Vesuvius has activities to local children.
