Our respOnsibility 49 Sustainability Greenhouse gas reporting So what is Vesuvius?
Vesuvius remains committed to improving its environmental impact In reporting GHG emissions, we have used a responsible supplier 1.8 tonnes of CO 2 the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting are emitted for every tonne of steel produced.
by reducing, reusing and recycling and Reporting Standard revised edition In 2010 the iron and steel industry accounted waste and improving energy methodology to identify our greenhouse for approximately 6.7% of total world efficiency wherever economically gas inventory of Scope 1 direct and Scope CO emissions and 18% of industrial CO 2 2 2 indirect CO. We report in CO equivalent emissions.
The Board recognises that 2 2 CO e. of refractory material is required per tonne of 2 good environmental management steel produced.
Environmental monitoring is aligned with our focus on cost In the foundry process, the average quantity of optimisation and operational All our factory emissions are proactively molten metal employed is, as a worldwide managed in accordance with local excellence.
average, 2.5 kg per kg of good finished piece.
Regular analysis of our operations The solutions offered by Foseco can reduce this Vesuvius and its processes enables us to take appropriate action to ratio significantly below 2.0 kg of molten metal reduce our emissions and operate more The majority of our manufacturing processes per kg of good finished cast piece, driving a efficiently.
The Group monitors its energy are not energy intensive and do not produce considerable saving of CO emissions.
2 consumption, worldwide CO emissions large quantities of waste and emissions.
Vesuvius products reduce the energy Total energy costs are less than 3% of consumption of our customers and, as their revenue, with only 2% of the total energy The Group also meets all of its obligations usage also increases the quality of customers requirements across the Group consumed in relation to the Carbon Reduction products and reduces waste, they are in the UK.
Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme increasingly beneficial when energy costs rise.
CRC and the Producer Responsibility Our customers and their processes Packaging Waste regulations.
Benefits are realised by: Under the Vesuvius and Foseco brands, we Energy conservation plan Working closely with customers to deliver a large range of solutions that help improve processes through the supply of our customers improve the productivity of The Vesuvius Energy Conservation Plan technologically advanced consumables their operations.
These solutions also improve was launched in 2011 with the objective of to reduce energy intensity and the CO e the quality of our customers products and 2 reducing our normalised energy consumption intensity ratio reduce the environmental footprint of by 10% over the following three years.
have continued to progress with a 3.63% Reductions in refractory usage per tonne of reduction in normalised energy intensity steel produced by customers, from higher Thermal optimisation and reject reduction and a 2.85% reduction in CO e intensity quality longer service life are key factors in the processes for which 2 ratio achieved since 2013.
Managing our we supply solutions.
Vesuvius contributes An increase in the level of good castings energy intensity is part of enhancing our to the reduction of its customers energy produced per tonne of metal melted cost competitiveness.
It also contributes to usage and subsequent carbon dioxide through improved mould design and the improving the total environmental impact CO emissions through insulating 2 application of molten metal filtration and of our customers.
materials, flow management, facilitating feeding systems extended manufacturing sequences and Enabling lighter, thinner and stronger reduced downtime.
components leading to lighter vehicles and less energy consumption.
kg of cO e Global GHG emissions 2 methodology We have reported to the extent reasonably practicable on all the emission sources required under Part 7 of the Accounting Regulations which fall within our consolidated Emissions source 2013 2014 financial statements.
combustion of fuel 398m 384m Scope 1 covers emissions from fuels used in our factories and offices.
and operation of facilities Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heat, steam and hot water we purchase to supply our offices and factories.
We have used data gathered to fulfil our Electricity, heat, steam and 103m 104m requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme and emission factors from UK Governments cooling purchased forown use GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 in the calculation of our GHG.
Total GHG emission 501m 488m -2.6% Vesuvius chosen intensity measurement: 528 513 Emissions reported above, normalised to per tonne of product output P3258 50 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility Sustainability continued a responsible manufacturer Where Steel Flow control Vesuvius products are manufactured using energy intensive processes, energy Cold start: Flow control management and CO e intensity ratio 2 reduction are actively recognised as areas technical ceramics of increasing importance.
Through our membership of the European Refractories Producers Federation PRE, currently chaired A new refractory technology has allowed the development by Franois Wanecq, we work closely with of materials with enhanced cold start capabilities.
other manufacturers to reduce the industry carbon footprint.
Most recently, a European This allows for a significant increase in the durability of the footprinting exercise has been completed for ladle shroud, extending the life by up to 50%, using less refractories as part of the 2050 roadmap, with refractory, and offering significant material and cost savings.
the ultimate ambition of an 80% reduction The material also finds application in submerged entry nozzles in the carbon footprint of the European and shrouds where thermal shock failures resulting from poor ceramic industry.
preheat practice or delayed strand starts can be avoided.
a responsible purchaser Fuel selection Thermal shock failures inevitably lead to premature sequence is made carefully to account for current termination with significant cost implications for the user, in and future cost trends, availability and terms of reduced output, returned steel, and yield and quality environmental impact.
The use of this material in tube changer applications professionals work closely with suppliers to also avoids preheating the subsequent tubes, reducing energy ensure the availability of raw materials and consumption.
Typical savings of the order of 21 T per year in wasted Sourcing of new plant and equipment takes refractory and 123 T CO per preheater per year can 2 into account lifetime energy consumption in be expected.
order to deliver a lower energy intensity, lower CO e emissions and hence lower lifetime 2 running costs.
Energy efficiency and our customers We launched our Energy Efficiency and CO 2 Reduction project to foster the deployment of energy efficiency and sustainable solutions engineered by our technology departments.
A CO Impact stamp, in use since 2011, 2 highlights the most energy efficient solutions in our portfolio of products and services.
The examples shown to the right are a sample of the significant potential reduction inCO 2 resulting from our actions.
Increased Durability Cold start technology ladle shroud designed for use with the Ladle Tube Changer P3298 C 100% C 50% M 40% M 0% Y 80% Y 40% K 15% K 0% Our respOnsibility 51 advanced Refractories Foundry Cold start: Increasing tundish Furnace melt deck: Improving operation efficiency productivity and efficiency Vesuvius refractory engineers took a 40-tonne twin strand slab The furnace melt deck and metal transfer area account for more tundish currently utilising a spray working lining and hot start than half of a foundrys energy consumption.
Fosecos patented practice, and significantly reduced refractory and energy costs INITEK process for the production of ductile iron has many and turnaround times.
In addition this allowed the customer to benefits for foundry operations which include: reduce the number of tundishes used in the cycle, to change the Increased productivity working lining from spray to dry working lining, and change the start-up practice from hot start to cold start.
Improved reliability and process control Delivering to the customer: Improved casting quality Preparation time per tundish reduced by 125 minutes Reduced energy consumption Reduction of gas consumption, electric power and Reduced emissions consequently CO used in tundish preparation 2 Reduced consumption of ferro alloys Tundish operation labour per shift reduced from eight to four Reduced operating costs Significant reduction of the number of tundishes in rotation.
Reduced pig iron consumption preserving natural resources.
A customer in North America pouring 25,000 tonnes of ductile iron castings per year reduced the melting temperature of the base iron in the coreless induction furnace by 35C by utilising our innovative INITEK process.
The reduced melt temperature in combination with improved casting quality and a 10% reduction in consumption of ferro alloys will provide a reduction of 20.6 kg CO per tonne of shipped castings.
This represents a 2 reduction of 515,000 kg CO per annum 5% in CO emissions.
2 2 Increasing Efficiency Cold start Tundish preparation Improving productivity and efficiency Foseco INITEK convertor Trademark s of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries
