20 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Sustainability report Sustainability is now firmly embedded in Victrexs culture, ensuring that our sustainable products are recognised for providing a competitive advantage to our customers and markets, for example in reducing CO emissions in aircraft, as well 2 as reflecting the strides we are making to maximise our own resources and be a responsible business.
Introduction from the Chief Executive Victrex has made considerable progress in its sustainability journey over the last two years.
Whilst financial results remain an important measure of success, to be a truly successful global business, we will work hard to continually improve our positive impact on the environment and society, and to ensure our sustainable products can deliver real competitive advantage toour customers and markets.
This year, we introduced a clear and bold sustainability vision and targets across our new focus areas of sustainable solutions, resource efficiency and social responsibility.
For each of these areas, we have Focused: Reducing energy and metrics to assess our performance against our 2023 goal, which is waste are key priorities at Victrex timed for the 30th anniversary of Victrex being formed 1993 saw the management buyout of Victrex from ICI.
Our 2023 goals are clear and measurable, and we believe they will show real long term progress for Victrex, as a business that is using sustainability in a proactive way and to deliver a competitive advantage.
David Hummel Chief Executive 8 December 2014 www.
com Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 21 Our 2023 vision: Sustainability goals Victrex is committed to creating and delivering sustainable benefits and solutionstoour customers and our markets, alongsidemaximising  acrossourglobal footprint Sustainable Resource Social solutions efficiency responsibility Vision: Vision: Vision: Develop and deliver sustainable polymer Maximise resource efficiency Inspire the next generation by supporting solutionsthat provide clearsocial and acrossthevaluechain science, technology, engineering and environ mental benefits to society mathseducation 2023 target: 2023 target: 2023 target: Save more CO2 than we produce 50% reduction in energy use perrevenue 10,000 employee hours cumulative carbonneutral supporting community activity by 2023 50% reduction in waste per revenue 5 million tonnes reduction of CO 1,000 young people reached through 2 inaerospace and automotive education activities 10 million patients with PEEK-OPTIMA 75% of employees engaged implanted globally onsustainability Our 2023 vision: Interim targets Metric: Metric: Metric: CO savings Reduction in energy andwaste Employee involvement in thecommunity 2 Scale of patient benefits Primary energy per revenue No.
of young people workedwith Tonnes CO per revenue 2 Interim targets: Interim targets: Interim targets: Independently review method of measuring Complete an energy efficiency assessment Employee network in place to support CO savings in aerospace and transport by by FY 2015 and establish a long-term plan community STEM education activities 2 September 2015 intheUK by end of 2015 and globally Engage with key suppliers by FY 2016 to byendof 2016 Extend PEEK-OPTIMA further into new identify their climate change impact and andexisting spinal therapeutic areas improvement plans Support Fleetwood High to achieve improved STEM academic results by end Extend PEEK-OPTIMA and other enabling Establish an R&D programme by FY 2015 of2017 through employee support polymers into new therapeuticareas toidentify process yield improvements and waste reduction opportunities Victrex Catalyst Science Education Centre Extend Invibio Biomaterial Solutions into project fully up and running by end of 2015 emerging geographies Engage with key suppliers by FY 2016 toidentify their waste impact and Employee engagement in sustainability improvement plans assessed in the next employee survey, withresults benchmarked against peer companies by the endof 2015 www.
com 22 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Sustainability report continued Victrex Global Code of Conduct Doing business the right way Underpinning each of our sustainability programmes andourwhole business isourGlobal Code of Conduct.
We have a zero tolerance to Acting ethically and responsibly is not only the right thing to behaviour that breaches our do, but also the right thing to do for our business, helping us to maintain our competitive advantage.
The Global Code of Conduct, Code of Conduct.
further details of which can be found in the Corporate Governance section starting on page 35, is a fundamental guide to upholding our good reputation as a business and one that can be trusted by Our three principles of ethical our employees, customers, suppliers, partners, investors and all business conduct are: other stakeholder groups with whom we engage.
Our success as a business rests on maintaining this trust andensuring that we are a company that upholds the highest standards of integrity.
We are honest, transparent 1 and trustworthy in all our dealings both within Victrex and in all our external .
We respect the privacy 2 of individuals and other organisations with whom wework.
We investigate reports of 3 potential breaches of the Code of Conduct.
Acting ethically: Victrex is a signatoryof the Prompt Payment Code for suppliers p. 20 p. 12-15 Further details in our Divisional reviews from Sustainability Report theManaging Directors www.
com Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 23 Sustainable solutions We retain a strong and diverse development pipeline, with Sustainable solutions opportunities to target further market penetration or geographies Sustainable Solutions is our focus area which includes through strategic marketing.
Ultimately, we believe our products products and services, in line with our vision of delivering and services will continue to play an important role in delivering products which provide clear environmental and social real and sustainable solutions for our customers and markets.
materials, new applications, new forms and new geographies will At Victrex, we enable many industries to deliver against their future all play a part in Victrexs future.
As evidence of our commitment in challenges.
In doing so, we are not only helping our individual this area, our research and development spend once again increased customers solve problems, we are providing innovative and this year, representing approximately 6% of Group revenue.
sustainable solutions across our markets, proving our real credentials We also continue to focus on a sustainable supply chain, including in sustainability.
Our industries continue to be challenged to achieve our own upstream production assets manufacturing BDF in the UK, higher performance with less: less material, less energy, less waste, or our non-Victrex BDF supply, as well as how we can sustainably less noise, less time, less cost.
This drives the need for innovative source our other global raw materials into the future.
designs using our materials and expertise to bring them to market.
The unique combination of properties and physical forms of Victrex Minimise CO emissions maximise efficiency 2 materials help customers deliver against these challenges.
Across industries and countries, the reduction of CO emissions 2 remains a dominating trend.
Global mobility continues to be a key With proven expertise and over 35 years of experience, our customers megatrend, with transport systems having a major impact on the choose to specify VICTREX PEEK in many of their applications, environment and global carbon footprint.
Transport consumes 20% whether it be in aerospace to fly lighter, in automotive to reduce of global energy consumption and contributes approximately 22% wear and improve durability, in electronics to deliver thinner, of worldwide CO emissions.
With more than 1 billion cars and light smaller and smarter devices, in energy to improve durability and 2 good vehicles and forecasts of 100 million new vehicles per year recover more, or in medical applications tohelp address an ageing by 2018, improving energy efficiency and emissions is vital to the global population.
Solutions to problems: Our polymers are helping to improve fuel efficiency in cars www.
com 24 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Sustainability report continued Sustainable solutions continued Resource efficiency Minimise CO emissions maximise efficiency continued 2 Only one quarter of the fuel consumed by a car is converted to Victrex greenhouse propulsion.
To meet ever more challenging regulatory criteria to gas emissions 2014 reduce CO emissions, the global automotive industry is focusing on 2 improvements in powertrain technology, brake energy recovery, exhaust gas energy recovery and treatment, and lighter weight construction.
Tonnes of CO equivalent 2014 2 Victrex remains at the forefront of helping the global transport industry, whether it be in Aerospace or in Automotive.
Scope 3 In cars, powertrain technology not only encompasses alternatives such as electrification and hybridisation, but also smaller engines with improved power output combined with highly efficient transmission systems.
Efficiency improvements are reliant on the reduction of friction Scope 1 associated energy losses.
Victrex materials are shaping future Scope 2 performance in powertrain technology.
Through the use of VICTREX PEEK in transmission seals and thrust washers, frictional losses are reduced by approximately 20%, compared with incumbent materials, enabling reduced transmission power consumption.
Victrex materials are also replacing heavier metal.
In single vane vacuum pumps, Victrex polymers demonstrated up to 30% Scope 1 Scope 2 less power consumption and consequently enabled 1% fuel savings according to the New European Driving Cycle NEDC, a Direct emissions resulting Indirect emissions standardised cycle used to measure the emissions and consumption fromcombustion of fuels  of motor vehicles.
Further consolidating multiple metal parts purchased into one plastic component paves the way to overall system cost reductions and reduced time to market always a welcome effect for the automotive industry!
11 12 13 14 11 12 13 14 Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 Scope 3 Intensity measurement scope 1and2 Other indirect emissions from related activities such as transport of goods and employees 11 12 13 14 11 12 13 14 Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e m revenue 2 2 Lift off with less: Our polymers help reduce weight in aircraft, saving fuel and CO emissions 2 www.
com 2,645 15,964 1,936 16,296 1,523 14,400 3,025 16,594 130 12,166 132 12,806 123 12,809 120 13,738 Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 25 Resource efficiency Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Victrex retains a strong focus on resource efficiency and our clear Our emissions have been calculated based on the GHG Protocol targets page 21 and vision to maximise efficiency across our own Corporate Standard.
Emissions reported correspond with our financial operations and across the value chain will help us to continually year.
We have included emissions from both our owned andleased improve in this area.
assets for which we are responsible in the UK and overseas.
This includes our manufacturing plant, technical centres and offices.
No Resource efficiency includes a focus on our products, which material emissions are omitted.
Emissions have been calculated using enhance sustainability and efficiency in many applications, or in data gathered to fulfil our reporting requirements under Climate our own operations, as a manufacturing backed global company.
Change Agreements on two of our manufacturing sites we operate Our products help our customers to make a sustainable difference under a tenancy agreement at our Seal Sands facility.
Emission by reducing their impact on the environment, for example, Victrex factors are from UK government conversion factor guidance.
Whilst polymers help our aerospace and automotive customers to reduce not a mandatory requirement we have included scope 3 emissions in the weight of their aircraft and vehicles to improve fuel efficiency our report for greater transparency: these include indirect emissions and reduce CO emissions.
Our bold target of reducing CO 2 2 from employee travel and distribution of goods.
emissions in aerospace by 5 million tonnes shows the commitment we have in this area.
In medical, the wear characteristics of PEEK Our emissions are predominantly from gas and oil combustion and polymer is helping spinal fusion patients, whilst in the emerging electricity use on our manufacturing plants in the UK.
Emissions area of plastic knees, our devices can be injection moulded to from our overseas technical facilities and offices are relatively reduce surgery time, as well as enhancing patient satisfaction.
immaterial to those from our UK activities, which explain our focus on UK reporting metrics.
At the same time, we have an impact on the environment through the resources that we use to make our products and the processes that Whilst our overall emissions have increased this year principally we operate.
We continue to control these impacts and, as we grow, as a result of increased sales volumes through our manufacturing we are committed to continual improvement.
Our priorities remain the plant pleasingly, our emissions per unit of product have reduced efficient use of energy and waste minimisation, and we are proactively because of our focus on optimising and delivering cost of delivering continual improvement to address these areas.
manufacture efficiencies in our manufacturing operations.
Our efficiency focus has been enhanced this year with a specific Principal environmental impacts Cost of Manufacture programme.
This has already started yielding The principal environmental impacts of the Groups operations savings through more efficient distribution for example, through are set out in the charts overleaf and are different from the shared product distribution and through improved manufacturing Groups overall GHG emissions see left.
These show energy use, efficiency in the second half year.
We are focused on continuing this water use and waste from our UK activities which include all our into 2015 as we commission our new PEEK and APTIV film capacity, manufacturing operations.
The impact from our overseas technical with an aim of improving our medium term operating efficiency.
and office facilities is not material and is not included.
Victrex also continues to participate in the Carbon Disclosure We have reported data per unit of revenue to best align our indicators Project, where our performance ranking improved this year.
with our business strategy along with absolute data to demonstrate our total impact.
CO emissions are reported separately left as part of 2 our greenhouse gas emissions report under the Companies Act 2006 Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Our efficiency focus has been enhanced this year with a specific Cost of Manufacture programme.
com 26 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Sustainability report continued Resource efficiency continued Energy use UK operations Primary energy Primary energy per unit revenue In line with previous reporting, energy use is reported for our UK manufacturing sites.
Energy per unit revenue has remained steady this year despite the stronger production performance.
This is primarily because of resource efficiencies from the way we have been able to operate our manufacturing plants to meet demand.
10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Energy is a priority sustainability target for Thousands GJ Thousands GJ m us as part of our resource efficiency focus.
Water usage Water usage per unit revenue Water UK operations Water use is reported for our UK operations.
Our overseas water usage is not material.
Our manufacturing operations are not in regions which experience water shortages.
10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 3 3 Thousands m Thousands m m Hazardous waste produced Hazardous waste produced Waste UK operations per unit revenue Whilst our manufacturing process generates hazardous waste, we work closely with licensed waste service providers to ensure that it is recovered, recycled or disposed ofwith minimal environmental impact.
We have invested in improving and optimising the production process to reduce waste, but we are already striving to reduce it further.
10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 This is a priority sustainability objective and Tonnes Tonnes m there is an ongoing programme of work to examine how we can further minimise generation of waste at source and how we Hazardous waste disposed Hazardous waste disposed can also recover value from waste generated tolandfill after treatment tolandfill after treatment over the medium term.
Waste per unit of per unit revenue revenue remained steady this year, following reductions in previous years.
com 41 46,652 392 530 64 45,781 439 568 13 49,106 474 591 15 47,254 377 518 14 55,072 499 574 0.22 246 2.1 2.8 0.30 212 2.0 2.6 0.06 223 2.2 2.7 0.07 213 1.7 2.3 0.06 218 2.0 2.3 Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 27 Reportable injuries and casesofreportable illhealthduringthe year ZERO Compliance Despite our track record, we set targets to drive continual safety, In line with our focus on resource efficiency, Victrex proactively health and environment SHE performance improvement.
During stays well ahead of environmental standards.
the year, over 1.1 million employee hours were worked with no employee reportable injuries and no cases of reportable ill Our manufacturing plants are regulated under Environmental health.
This has been achieved by establishing and maintaining Permitting Regulations and, as such, are subject to close regulatory a strong health and safety culture throughout the business from review by the UK Environment Agency.
In 2014, our routine the Executive team to the shop floor.
We have a strong business environmental emissions monitoring demonstrated that all our UK risk management culture and believe that good health and safety manufacturing plants were being operated within agreed consent management is just one part of it.
We work closely with the Agency on new projects to ensure that best available techniques are adopted during new plant design.
The occupational health and safety of contractors working on oursites is of equal importance as our employees.
With During the year there was one notifiable event.
At our Hillhouse our major investment in new PEEK production capacity seeing manufacturing plant in the UK, the contents of a raw material majorconstruction activity this year, there has been a significant package was accidentally released inside the plant building.
No one number of contractors on major projects, with over 600,000 was injured and there was no harm to the environment.
contractor hours worked with only one contractor reportable There were no other notifiable events at any of our other UK injury, a contractor breaking his ankle when he stumbled on a manufacturing sites.
We are also pleased to have recorded another cable.
This result has been achieved by working closely alongside year with no prosecutions, fines or enforcement action from project principal contractors to ensure that robust project health environmental or health and safety legislation.
and safety procedures are in place and that they are actively monitored, audited and reviewed.
During the year we successfully achieved ISO 14001:2004 accreditation for the environmental management system on our This year the principal contractor, K-Home, building our new polymer compounded pellets production plant, validating our commitment manufacturing plant at our Hillhouse site in the UK, received a RoSPA to being a sustainable and environmentally conscious business.
gold award for its occupational health and safety.
REACH REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction Technical excellence: Our of Chemicals Regulations is a well established regime for the global technical centres ensure chemical industry and Victrex has well established processes in we retain our market leadership place to ensure adherence to legislation.
We monitor and review to ensure that raw materials involved in our manufacturing process are compliant and that REACH will not adversely impact on the security of supply, which is important both for Victrex and for our customers, who are focusing on long term demand.
There has not been, and we do not anticipate, any disruption to the supply of products arising from the regulations.
Health and safety Protecting the occupational safety and health of all our employees along with contractors and visitors to our sites remains the highest priority for Victrex.
We continue to have a strong track record and have won several accolades to mark our success in this area.
In 2014 the Group was again recognised for its strong health and safety performance.
We received the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Order of Distinction award.
Itisthe 17th consecutive year that we have received an award andthe third year running that we have received an Order of Distinction award.
com 28 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Sustainability report continued Social responsibility Social responsibility In line with our proactive vision to inspire the next Employees generation by supporting science, engineering, technology and maths education, our social responsibility focus has been refined this year, whilst maintaining our commitment to employees and to the communities where we operate both 60 inthe UK and globally.
1993 Our employees Our business success is a reflection of the depth of talent in our global workforce.
In a competitive global market, ensuring that weattract, motivate and retain our people remains a consistent theme for Victrex.
This year we introduced an Organisational Capability Strategy, which supports us to identify and develop the skills and experience we need to deliver our business strategy and shape our people strategy.
This was led by the Chief Executive, 701 supported by the Group Human Resources Director and the 2014 Managing Directors of each business unit.
Employee breakdown As a company we continue to invest in skills and talent to support Employees by regional breakdown our future growth.
This year we recruited 76 new employees to the Victrex team, balancing this with promoting internal talent within the business.
Our workforce continues to strengthen and diversify, and our gender breakdown continues to show changes across the UK business.
Approximately 80% of our employees are male average 75.9% Europe 2014: 542 and 20% female average 2014: 139.
On our Executive 6.6% Leadership Team, one quarter of the team is female.
In Victrex, Americas diversity encompasses differences in ethnicity, gender, language, 8.1% AsiaPacific age, sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic status, physical and 9.4% mental ability, thinking style, experience and education.
We believe that the wide array of perspectives that result from such diversity promotes innovation and business success.
We operate an equal opportunities policy and provide a healthy environment which willencourage good and productive working relationships within the organisation.
We have a policy of giving full and fair consideration to applications foremployment made by disabled persons, continuing the employment Average number of people employed during the year of employees who have become disabled when they wereemployed including Directors, by category by the company and the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the company.
Total 681 Total 644 Administration 94 Administration 101 Commercial 132 Commercial 129 Technical 86 Technical 82 We operate an equal opportunities policy and provide a healthy environment which Operations 339 Operations 362 will encourage good and productive working relationships within the organisation.
com Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 29 Engineered for success: Development AdamMoat, who secured the We continue to invest in the development of all our employees, Best Engineering Progress award through both an informal and formal route.
Assessment of individual training needs comprises a key element of the annual appraisal process which is undertaken by all employees.
This year has seen uscomplete a global learning needs analysis and we continue to rollout programmes globally across different employee groups.
We continue to invest in our apprenticeship programme at our Hillhouse manufacturing site in the UK, across a range of disciplines, with eight apprentices currently on the apprenticeship programme.
Last year, Adam Moat one of our engineering apprentices based at Hillhouse, our UK headquarters, was awarded Best Engineering Progress award and runner up in the Best Engineering Skills award at Blackpool and Fylde Technical College, whilst studying for a BTEC National Diploma in Engineering.
Adam was also awarded theSpringfields Gareth Jobes Endeavour Award 2013, the third time in fouryears a Victrex apprentice has won this award.
As part of our focus on development and apprenticeships, we annually present the Shaun Thompson Young Person of the Year Award.
The award, which commemorates our first Victrex apprentice, is open to young people across the operations discipline.
Recipients are nominated by their peers and the winner is selected by a committee made up of the senior Manufacturing and Technical team.
Young Person of the Year: Richard Whiteside left and Richard The 2014 recipients are Richard Whiteside, Process Engineer, and Jebb are presented with the Shaun Richard Jebb, Finished Product Shift Technical Officer.
Both have Thompson Young Person of the continued to develop and expand their knowledge and are highly Year Award by Karl Thompson regarded and valued members of the Manufacturing team.
Wellbeing We continue to place a high priority on the health and wellbeing of employees and promote this in a number of ways.
Occupational health and private medical services are available for all employees in all locations.
Over the last year we have started to focus on wellbeing services rather than medical treatment programmes, this has included, for the UK sites, on site medical checks, financial education sessions and defensive driving for company car owners and frequent travellers.
This approach will be rolled out to the rest of the business in the next financial year.
Apprentices currently on the apprenticeship programme 8 www.
com 30 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Sustainability report continued Inspiring the next generation: Pupils from Fleetwood High School learn about the technology behind Victrex polymers Social responsibility continued Involvement The Group places considerable emphasis on two-way communication and involving our employees in the business.
Wehave a number of channels to keep employees informed on business news, these include a newly launched global monthly business briefing to keep employees aware of Company performance, quarterly global staff As a business we continue to: briefings and more formally through the Staff Committee and union partnership meetings.
The Company supports employee share ownership and, offers the opportunity to participate in share schemes.
provide a clean, safe working This year we ran a series of briefing sessions to help our employees understand more about the range of share schemes available.
As at 1 environment which meets 30 September2014, approximately 89% 2013: 86% of employees all legislative requirements worldwide were participants in employee share schemes, principally as option holders under the Companys employee share option schemes.
and to provide all the We also sponsor pension plans for employees across most of our necessary training support global operations.
Details of the Groups principal pension schemes for employees to operate are set out in note 14 to the financial statements.
safely within it: Largely as a result of the above approaches, Victrex has low voluntary employee turnover.
This has risen slightly during the last year as many countries have moved out of recession, increasing the number of opportunities available, although the rate is still provide appropriate low for both the chemical sector and for manufacturing backed 2 remuneration for work carried businesses.
We conduct exit interviews with all employees leaving tounderstand reasons, so we are able to address any trends.
out and equal opportunities for development and careeradvancement: Participation in employee share schemes be intolerant of any 3 unacceptable working practices such as any form of discrimination, bullying Excludes recruitment during 2014 orharassment: 89% prohibit illegal activities 4 2014 2013 2012 2011 onoursites: and 89% 86% 93% 85% Voluntary employee turnover promote fair, ethical and 5 transparent business practices both within our business and in dealings 5% with external stakeholders.
com Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 31 Our communities Charitable giving We have increased our proactive focus on corporate citizenship to In the UK, a proportion of the charitable donations budget have a clearer vision of how we work with the local communities, is distributed by the Staff Committee mainly to local charities ensuring that the Victrex name is synonymous with good business, chosenfrom nominations made by employees.
National or overseas and helps to establish our employer brand and reputation, in turn charities are supported where there is strong employee involvement.
helping us to secure the right skills for our future development.
The Group made charitable donations of 164,590 2013: 81,224 Witha clear vision and targets in line with our 2023 sustainability during the year.
No political donations were made 2013: nil.
goals, we have made good progress in this area and now have Our employees remain active fundraisers, following the successful amorefocused approach.
opening and launch of our UK head office and UK technical centre Last year we outlined in our sustainability strategy that our focus in 2012, with quarterly employee events to encourage employee is to get young people interested and excited about science, networking and to raise money for charity.
All employees based technology and engineering.
This year, we signed up to Business in on the UK Hillhouse site were invited to attend informal lunches the Communitys Business Class programme, which matches local provided by the company.
During the year a total of 588 was businesses and schools together in a three year partnership.
We donated to charity through employee donations.
are pleased to be working with Fleetwood High School in the UK Alongside Company led events, our employees proactively support over the next three years.
This year we hosted a visit to our main UK charities through their own wishes.
Three Victrex employees, manufacturing operations and work experience for year 10 students.
RobBaylis, Barry Fullard and Adam Briscoe, committed to walk As a company using technical excellence as part of our more 100km over the UKs Yorkshire Dales in under 30 hours in May focused strategy, our 20th birthday celebrations last year saw 2014.
Thisinvolved climbing more than 2300m, more than Ben us sponsor a Polymer Zone at the Catalyst Discovery Centre in Nevis andSnowdon on top of one another.
The Catalyst Centre was launched in September and team successfully completed the challenge and raised over the Polymer Zone helps young people understand more about 2,000forOxfam.
polymers and their application in the world and day to day life, whether it be in smartphones, cars, aeroplanes, medical devices orwider industry.
Victrex has also participated in a range of activities within local communities, offering apprenticeships, awareness in schools, advancement of research work at universities and offering work With a clear vision and targets in experience to students of all ages at varying stages of their academic careers.
We are actively involved in the Science Industry line with our 2023 sustainability goals, Partnership which was awarded 52m to enable industry to take the we have made good progress and lead in investing in the skills they need.
Our Manufacturing Director now have a more focused approach.
sits on the Board and a number of employees are actively involved inthe sub-groups.
Catalyst for the future: Victrex employees and pupils from Fleetwood High School open the Polymer Zone at the Catalyst Centre www.
