V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c 36 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Our people One company, local roots We believe our people are fundamental to our success thats why we want to attract and retain exceptional employees.
Were committed to providing an inclusive workplace where we offer great opportunities for our people to build their skills and careers.
We continue to develop our people to ensure that they have the right skills and experience to deliver an outstanding experience to our customers.
During the year we employed an average of 92,812 people Creating a lean and effective organisation and had 97,721 employees as of March 2014.
The number We continue to make our business more efficient, simplifying processes of our people increased during the year following our acquisition across our markets and sharing best practice.
We continue to move of Kabel Deutschland in Germany and the move to full ownership transactional and back office activities to our shared service centres of Vodafone Italy.
in Egypt, India and Europe.
In the last year we undertook an exercise to reduce our non-customer facing support functions, as discussed The following sections highlight our progress in the key areas behind on page 32. our people strategy.
We aim to treat all employees fairly, consulting with those affected Increasing employee engagement by change and clearly communicating developments.
We support Every year all our employees participate in our global People Survey employees through organisational changes, finding people new jobs which allows us to measure engagement levels, compare ourselves in the company or arranging for them to work for a partner company to other large companies and helps us identify ways to improve how where possible.
We also help those whose roles are made redundant we do things.
search for new jobs, offering them training on job applications and interview skills, and advice on how to start their own business.
Our employee engagement index measures how committed our employees are, their desire to continue working for us and their During the year we completed the integration of employees from Cable willingness to recommend Vodafone as an employer.
The index & Wireless Worldwide and we established single product management remained broadly stable at 77 points this year compared to 78 last year.
teams for consumer and enterprise.
Crucially we retained our top quartile position.
Our employee turnover rate also remained broadly stable at 15%.
Strengthening capabilities We want people to grow their careers at Vodafone and develop the skills Embedding The Vodafone Way and talent needed to grow our business.
We do this through formal The Vodafone Way is about ensuring our employees work with speed, training, on the job experience and regular coaching from managers.
simplicity and trust so that we can be customer-obsessed, ambitious We conduct an annual analysis of learning needs to identify priorities and competitive, innovation-hungry and work as one company with and ensure that learning plans support our business strategy.
employee also has a formal review once a year with their manager For the third consecutive year we have run development workshops to review their performance and set clear goals and development plans for all senior employees with a particular focus on ensuring we provide for the year ahead.
a superior experience to all our customers.
Our global learning academies in marketing, technology, sales, retail, finance and supply chain enable people to develop the critical skills Building a diverse and inclusive culture they need to excel in their functions.
We work with leading business We believe that a diverse team is crucial to our success, helping us better schools and accredited external providers to develop and deliver the understand and meet the needs of our customers.
Last year, around 180,000 online courses were completed and diversity and inclusion strategy aims to create a working environment we trained around 18,000 people in our Technology Academy and over which values, celebrates and makes the most of individual differences.
10,000 people in our Retail and Sales academies.
We do not condone unfair treatment of any kind and offer equal We conduct regular talent reviews to identify high-potential future opportunities in all aspects of employment and advancement leaders and accelerate the progress of high-potential managers through regardless of race, nationality, gender, age, marital status, sexual our Inspire programme, which offers development and executive orientation, disability, and religious or political beliefs.
This also applies coaching over an 18 month period and may include an assignment to agency workers, the self-employed and contract workers who work to another Vodafone market or function.
We promote an open culture that encourages people to raise Our Discover programme for graduates accelerates the careers of high issues to ensure that any behaviour which excludes or discriminates performing graduates and we recruited 596 people from 20 countries against individuals does not go unchallenged.
This years People Survey onto this programme during the year.
We also have an international showed that 89% of employees believe that Vodafone treats people assignment programme, Columbus, with 35 graduates from fairly, regardless of their gender, background, age or beliefs.
16different markets taking part this year.
Note: Employee numbers are shown on a management view and on a full time employee basis.
A statutory view is provided on page 152.
V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c Strategy Additional A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 37 Employees by location % Average number of employees Employee turnover rates 86,373 15% Spain: 4% Italy: 5% 91,272 16% Vodacom: 8% 92,812 15% Other: 37% Germany: 12% Nationalities in top senior Women in top senior leadership roles leadership roles 25 19% UK: 16% India: 18% 26 20% 24 22% Valuing diversity At the end of the year we had 61,848 63% male and 35,873 37% female employees and we have increased female representation at all levels of the business, particularly within more senior roles.
Women now make up 22% of our senior leadership team our 223 most senior managers an improvement on last year but we still have work to do.
We also increased the number of women on our Executive Committee to two.
Recognising performance Creating a safe place to work We maintained our approach of rewarding people based on their Driving a culture where safety is an integral part of every business performance, potential and contribution to our success.
We benchmark decision is critical to our vision of preventing any incidents that could roles regularly to ensure competitive, fair remuneration in every country affect the health and safety of our people.
We continue to work hard in which we operate.
We also offer competitive retirement and other to ensure employees and contractors know how to identify and manage benefit provisions which vary depending on conditions and practices risks and take personal responsibility for their own safety and the safety in local markets.
Global short-term incentive plans are offered to a large percentage We have a wide range of programmes and systems to tackle our key of employees and global long-term incentive plans are offered to our risks, often tailored to the particular needs of each market.
Individual and company performance measures we greatly regret to report that 12 people died while undertaking work are attached to these plans which give employees the opportunity on behalf of Vodafone last year.
Strengthening programmes to target to be rewarded for exceptional performance as well as ensuring that occupational road risk one of our biggest risks and the main cause we do not reward poor performance.
of these fatalities remains a major focus for all local markets.
Through increased awareness and a strong focus on managing our Doing whats right top five safety risks, our injury rates have continued to decline in 2014.
We have a Code of Conduct that sets out our business principles and The safety culture in Vodafone continues to mature our latest what we expect from employees to ensure they protect themselves People Survey showed that 89% of employees believe that our as well as the Companys reputation and assets.
We actively promoted Absolute Rules, which help employees follow best practice for safety, our Code of Conduct throughout the year via our global Doing are taken seriously.
The aim was to improve understanding of and engagement with key topics including health and safety, antibribery, privacy, security and competition law to ensure that people know whats expected of them and managers know what is expected of their teams.
