V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c 34 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Sustainable business Contributing to social and economic improvement Telecommunications technology has the power to transform peoples lives.
Ensuring that we continue to connect more people to essential services, while expanding the reach of our network, is the best way we can support that improvement.
Telecommunications technology can be used to tackle some of the The issue of government surveillance has come under increased most pressing challenges faced by society today.
For the first time we have published a Law Enforcement services provide access to a range of solutions to these challenges Disclosure report, which sets out our approach to responding to law in areas including financial services, healthcare and education.
enforcement demands for access to customer information, together We remain determined to continue to contribute to the social and with information about intelligence agency and authority demands economic development of all our customers and particularly our on a country-by-country basis, where statistical data can lawfully 302 million customers who live in emerging markets, while ensuring be disclosed.
we continue to fulfil our strategic business goals.
Vodafone is a member of the Telecommunications Industry Dialogue How we achieve our goals is integral to the long-term success of the on Freedom and Privacy of Expression, which in March 2013 launched business.
We remain fully committed to operating ethically and a two-year collaboration with the Global Network Initiative GNI responsibly in everything we do.
This includes ensuring we respect and a set of Guiding Principles, which address the issues of privacy and our customers human rights, improving ethical and environmental freedom of expression as they relate to the telecommunications sector.
standards in our supply chain and managing our energy use, while remaining proactive in our response to emerging sustainability risks.
Supporting ethical practices in the supply chain We continue to work with our suppliers and others in our industry This report highlights our progress in four critical areas.
to raise ethical, labour and environmental standards in our supply chain, through an enhanced code of ethical purchasing.
In 2014, Connecting people to vital services we conducted 30 rigorous audits of both new and existing suppliers and Mobile money continues to be a driver of financial inclusion, offering 38 through the Joint Audit Co-operation JAC, in collaboration with people access to payments and financial services beyond the nineother telecommunications operators.
Our platform, M-Pesa, expanded its geographical reach in 2014, launching recently in Mozambique, This year, we published our first Conflict Minerals report in response Lesotho, Egypt, Romania and India.
to US Securities and Exchange Commission requirements.
Our policy requires our suppliers to take steps to ensure that minerals used M-Pesa now has 17 million active users who can access a wide range to finance conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC of services that enhance their ability to improve their livelihoods, or neighbouring countries do not end up in our products and we are including the ability to pay bills and even be paid their salary via M-Pesa.
working through industry initiatives to continue to tackle this issue.
A new savings and loan product, launched in conjunction with the Commercial Bank of Africa, enables M-Pesa users to save and access Saving energy and cutting carbon loans, often for the very first time.
We are a top-rated global communications service provider for the The M-Pesa platform supports our efforts in many other areas, including machine-to-machine M2M industry.
Using our M2M solutions helps our aim to increase productivity and improve the lives of 500,000 our enterprise customers to cut carbon emissions and generate cost smallholder farmers in Africa, through the Connected Farmer Alliance savings.
We estimated the carbon savings we deliver for customers from initiative.
Our first formal partnership with Kilombero Plantations our M2M products and services, call conferencing and cloud and hosting, Limited, in Tanzania, tested how mobile technology could support the to be a total of 2.29 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 Companys engagement with smallholder rice farmers.
We are also in 2013 almost equal to our total emissions.
By March 2014, we had piloting our solution with a dairy cooperative in Kenya, to help them run contracts to provide nearly 14 million M2M connections with carbonmore efficiently, increasing productivity and incomes for the members reducing potential in smart metering, fleet management and logistics.
who supply the cooperative with milk.
Though we continue to extend the reach of our network to more customers, who are using increasing amounts of data, our own carbon Protecting our customers information footprint has remained almost stable and we remain committed and respecting their privacy to reduce it as far as possible through energy efficiency measures.
The amount of data and personal information transmitted over our The efficiency of our operations has greatly improved with emissions per networks is increasing, as our customers use their mobile and other base station now at ten tonnes CO e, almost 40% lower than in 2007.
2 connected devices more and more.
Our commitment to protect that Our total carbon emissions in 2014 were 2.55 million tonnes of CO e, 2 information and respect their right to privacy and freedom of expression a slight increase on 2013 due to newly acquired operations.
remains critical in retaining their trust.
We can only ensure our customers privacy if we first ensure the security of their information and communications.
Cyber security threats Want to find out more?
continue to proliferate, so Vodafones Global Security Operations Centre Read our sustainability report 201314, for more information on Vodafones contribution to social and economic development.
monitors our IT systems 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to anticipate or detect attacks and minimise their impact.
com sustainability report2014 V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c Strategy Additional A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 35 1,2 2 Energy use 2014 GWh Carbon emissions Millions of tonnes CO e 2 3 2.55 2.36 2.23 2 Network: 4,690 Retail: 74 1 Office: 458 0 2012 2013 2014 n Scope 1 direct greenhouse gas GHG emissions n Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions Notes: 1 Energy use does not include fuel use for transport.
2 Calculated using local market actual or estimated data sourced from invoices, purchasing requisitions, direct data measurement and estimations.
Carbon emissions calculated in line with DEFRA guidance and Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
For full methodology see our sustainability report 2014.
CWW and TelstraClear data included for 2014 only and data for 2014 acquisitions excluded.
The total amount of donations made to the Vodafone Foundations in 2013 including 5.9 million towards its operating costs.
Since its inception, Vodafone has donated over 475 million to the charitable programmes led by our Foundations.
Connected Women Vodafones Connected Women Summit focused on the impact of mobile technology on the lives of women around the world.
New research, commissioned by the Vodafone Foundation, looked at the social and economic impact of extending womens access to mobile phones.
The Connected Women report found that stabilising the gender gap in our markets could have an economic benefit for women and society of more than US$22.3 billion annually from 2020.
Supporting victims of domestic violence TecSOS, from the Vodafone Foundation, rapidly connects victims of domestic violence to emergency services.
Now available in sixEuropean markets, it has helped more than 31,900 victims.
In the UK, TecSOS is used by over 50% of police forces it won the Metropolitan Police Commissioners Award for Best Use of Technology and was granted a Secured by Design licence, which recognises TecSOS as a high quality service to be used by the police.
Instant Education The Vodafone Foundation opened the first Instant Network School in the DRC in 2013, in partnership with Italian NGO, Don Bosco.
The Vodafone Foundations Instant Network Schools programme is supported by the Qatar Foundations Educate a Child initiative.
The school, in Goma, is enabling 400500 children aged 717 to access online educational content via tablets provided through the InstantNetwork mobile education programme.
