WH Smith PLC 22 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Employees and diversity Employees Diversity The Group employs approximately 14,000 people, primarily in WHSmith is committed to promoting a culture of equality and theUK, and is proud of its long history of being regarded as diversity through its policies, practices and procedures in all aresponsible and respected employer.
Information on our divisions of the WHSmith Group.
We want to ensure that all our Employee policies is available at www.
co. uk employees receive equal and fair treatment, and this applies to corporate responsibility our policies.
recruitment and selection, terms and conditions of employment, promotion, training and development opportunities and Equal opportunities employment benefits.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture To support our commitment, an action plan has recently been that is free from discrimination and harassment and will not agreed to take further steps to improve workplace diversity.
permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Company gives Actions include the appointment of a Diversity and Inclusion full and fair consideration to applications for employment when sponsor to champion diversity, as well as focused initiatives to these are received from disabled people and employs disabled better understand the challenges faced by under-represented people whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Should an employee groups within the business.
become disabled when working for the Company, we will endeavour to adapt the work environment and provide retraining The Board has chosen not to set specific representation targets if necessary so that they may continue their employment and for women at Board level at this time although it does have due maximise their potential.
regard for the benefits of diversity within the overriding objective of ensuring that its membership has the appropriate balance of Training and development skills, experience and independence.
We recognise the importance of training and development to The table below shows a breakdown of the composition of the support employee satisfaction and promote a knowledgeable Board as at year end.
Our programmes enable our staff to grow within the Company and develop their careers.
Succession planning is emphasised across the Group and we continue to achieve high Tenure Male Female internal succession rates.
Our Retail Academy supports store 01 year 0% Male 4 67% staff in developing their skills and moving on to new roles, 13 years 50% Female 2 33% andtargeted development programmes in head office helped tocreate a pipeline of talent to fill future vacancies.
These 36 years 50% Executive non-executive programmes support internal succession and enable us to Executive 2 33% continue to meet the objective that over 90 per cent of store Non-executive 4 67% manager appointments should be sourced from internal candidates.
The tables below show the number and percentage of women andmen in the senior management team, the management team Employee involvement and the mix of employees across the Group as at year end.
Employee engagement is supported through clear communication of the Groups performance and objectives.
Senior Management team Thisinformation is cascaded through team briefings, large employee events, intranet sites and regular e-newsletters.
Women 2 13% Thisapproach and the Groups open management style Men 14 87% encourages employees to contribute to business development.
This group comprises employees who are members of the senior executive committees The Company, when appropriate, consults directly with who are not also members of the Board.
employees and or employee representatives so that their views can be taken into account when decisions are made which are Management team likely to affect them.
Women 326 42% Employee share ownership Men 450 58% The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs Approved This wider group includes store managers and senior Head Office staff who are not also members of the senior management team.
Save-As-you-Earn share option scheme Sharesave Scheme which provides employees with the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company.
Approximately 720 employees participate in Employee mix across the Group thescheme.
Women 8,866 65% Men 4,836 35% The Strategic report on pages 1 to 22 of the Annual report has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive 16 October 2014
