Strategic report 35 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 responsibility and sustainability as well as ensuRing ouR customeRs gamble the high Responsibly, we stRive to pRovide them with the best possible expeRience.
street in addition, ouR colleagues and ouR woRk in the In recent years, there has been concern community continue to play a vital Role towaRds that betting shops are proliferating and clustering in certain areas.
In fact, the ensuRing a sustainable futuRe.
number of LBOs has been relatively stable over the last five years at c9,000, more than 40% lower than its peak at 16,000 in the 1970s.
LBOs have become more prominent as banks have closed high street branches, giving us opportunities to move from secondary and tertiary locations onto the high street.
LBOs are also an anchor for additional footfall for other retailers.
In England and Wales, the Government aims to give greater control to local councils by putting betting shops into a single use class.
Currently, we share Class A2 with financial services businesses, including banks, and moving into a single use class would require us to apply for planning approval to change the use class of a unit to open a new LBO.
In Scotland, as part of the process to devolve powers it has been proposed that Scottish Ministers will have the power to vary the number of gaming machines in new customers LBO licences.
Find out more: Page 36 The number of LBOs in Britain: colleagues 0% Find out more: Page 37 9,128 9,108 9,076 9,067 8,927 community Find out more: 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Page 39 Source: Gambling Commission 36 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 coRpoRate Responsibility Preventing underage gambling which will mean local authority inspections will concentrate on agreed key risk areas.
customers We also focus heavily on ensuring that under 18s do not gamble with William Hill.
In January 2013, Jacob Marx, a New Zealand lawyer, lost his life following the fall of a sign Our principles: In Retail, we apply a Think 21 approach and outside our shop in Camden Road, London.
use an independent third party to test the Keeping crime out of gambling In January 2015 an inquest jury returned a effectiveness of our approach.
Prior to the inquest, the Treating customers fairly and openly Having changed our testing methodology in Metropolitan Police announced that there Protecting the vulnerable 2012, we have been measuring colleagues was insufficient evidence to proceed with challenging of customers at different stages of gross negligence or corporate manslaughter their customer journey, from entering the door charges against any individual or corporation For the vast majority of customers, gambling to approaching the counter or attempting and the inquest verdict does not alter this is a safe and pleasurable pastime.
For a small to use a gaming machine.
Amongst other matters, the jury number, however, we recognise that gambling another year of very strong results in 2014, found that William Hill systems were above can become a problem.
with successful challenges occurring in 85% standard, but that there was a lack of The standards, policies and procedures by of cases and 71% of challenges occurring regulation in this area sign fixing.
which we operate our business are defined upon entry.
This places us among the very We have extended our sympathies to by the Gambling Commissions licensing highest performing age verification industries, Jacob Marxs family and we continue to fully objectives, and these are embedded including those selling alcohol on the co-operate with Camden Council on their throughout our organisation.
continuing investigation into the role of relevant Objective 1: to prevent gambling from When a new Online or Telephone contractors and the Group.
being a source of crime and disorder, being customer opens and deposits into an associated with crime or disorder or being account, we go through a series of age Keeping crime out of gambling used to support crime.
verification procedures, including using Over the last several years, William Hills external agencies.
Objective 2: to ensure that gambling is comprehensive approach to security has led conducted in a fair and open way.
us consistently to reduce the level of crime in Treating customers fairly and openly our business, giving us an industry-leading Objective 3: to protect children or other We strive to ensure our rules and terms track record.
We have a dedicated Security vulnerable persons from being harmed or and conditions are easily available and function and have continuously invested in exploited by gambling.
understandable to customers, and we look our systems and training to instil the right to resolve all betting disputes in a fair and security-conscious culture in our shops, to Addressing problem gambling consistent manner.
In 2014, the number of protect both our staff and our customers.
disputes escalated to the Independent Betting We continue to share best practices across As described above, the levels of problem Adjudication Service IBAS increased slightly to the industry through organisations such as the gambling across the UK are stable or may even 494, with 99% of these being found in our favour.
Safe Bet Alliance and co-operate with crimebe slightly declining.
These levels are also low prevention bodies, including Crimestoppers.
However, we are We monitor and regularly measure our Our efforts have also been recognised with not complacent and, as outlined above, have customer service levels to ensure that we are Group and individual awards from the security undertaken a number of important changes to delivering a good quality service to customers.
In 2014, Retails Net Promoter Score NPS improved again to 53% 2013: 47%.
We recognise the threat posed by cyber For many years we have provided selfcrime and will continue to focus on this area of Online introduced an NPS monitoring system exclusion systems in the betting shops and for during the year and identified key customer potential risk.
We have journeys on which to focus to deliver continually improved these measures, further improvements.
Customer complaints referred to IBAS: including requiring Retail customers to selfexclude for 12 months at a time, with the Health and safety ability to renew for a further year by phone, 9% and to provide a recent photograph when We continue to cement a strong Primary 494 457 they renew so that we can more effectively 453 Authority partnership for Health and Safety recognise them when they come into our with Westminster City Council, which will 354 321 shops.
Now, we are working closely with the include the receipt in 2015 of assured policy rest of the industry to identify ways to increase and process advice in all key areas.
From this, the effectiveness of self-exclusion even further.
a national inspection plan will be developed 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Strategic report 37 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Continuing to reduce crime Reporting Officer, comprehensive training, clear systems for escalation and fraud alert colleagues Through initiatives such as Counter Plan, software on the gaming machines.
investment in safe havens for staff and CCTV, and use of systems such as StaffSafe, in the Engagement The anti-money laundering risk matrix last seven years we have seen a 63% fall in used in Retail was extended in 2014 to We continue to build on the success of our robberies, an 81% fall in burglaries and a 35% encompass the gaming machine reward Colleague Forums, which operate in each fall in cash-in-transit incidents.
Specific gameplay monitoring was of our locations and from which a group of also introduced in relation to self-service In addition, the proportion of these classed as colleagues are drawn as our International betting terminals.
attempts i. e. the criminals were unsuccessful, Colleague Forum to share practices and raise usually as a result of our prevention measures ideas and issues.
In Online, we monitor customer accounts has increased to 37% for robberies, 29% for fraud management and anti-money Colleagues are also encouraged to make their for burglaries and 41% for cash-in-transit.
We conduct Know voices heard through the annual engagement The cost to the business of these crimes has Your Customer checks against customers survey, HOME Truths, which we have reduced by 82% from 662,000 in 2008 to depositing more than 2,000 in a 24-hour held each year since 2010.
This year, over 120,000 in 2014. period and run checks to validate their 10,000 colleagues participated worldwide.
Enhanced due diligence processes, During 2014, we continued to rollout The highest scores related to customer including customer profile checks, were StaffSafe, a two-way audio communication focus, relationships with managers, effective further enhanced in 2014 across both Retail system connecting shop teams to a 24-hour training and teamwork.
We saw significant and Online and a consistent approach to monitoring station.
This system is highly improvement around communication by monitoring and reporting once suspicious effective at combating anti-social behaviour senior management of its vision of the future activity has been detected is in operation.
as the incident is managed over the audio and making changes to be competitive.
system by the remote team, taking the Areas that colleagues highlighted to In 2014, we submitted 325 Suspicious focus away from the shop team.
In total, be addressed included pay, actions in Activity Reports SARs to either the NCA 1,340 systems have now been installed response to concerns and ideas, two-way or the Gibraltar Financial Intelligence Unit and by the end of 2015 we aim to have communication and work-life balance.
Ten of the SARs were covered three-quarters of our LBO estate.
consent-related and all ten were granted by The Control Room will also be linked into our Development the NCA.
There were 411 law enforcement CCTV systems.
or financial institution enquiries were received Our approach to talent management and that required investigation.
As a result of Anti-money laundering succession has become increasingly encouraging improved internal reporting and important as we have become a larger During the last year there has been significant adopting a more comprehensive approach and more international organisation.
attention focused on money laundering across Retail and Online, we saw a 125% Talent recognition and development run as the EU has progressed its 4th Money increase in the number of internal reports throughout William Hill.
We have mentoring Laundering Directive, which may bring retail made, with the high quality of this reporting schemes, talent development for high bookmakers under its auspices for the first demonstrated by 75% of these resulting in an potential people, executive coaching and time.
The number of suspicious incidents external disclosure.
study sponsorships to support peoples reported to the National Crime Agency NCA individual development needs, as well in the UK involving proceeds of crime or The EUs 4th Money Laundering Directive as organised programmes such as the is as at February 2015 still to be finalised.
money laundering in betting shops remains Retail Academy.
very low, at less than 1% of reported NCA It is possible that exemptions can be given by member states for areas deemed cases, the majority of which come from the banking sector.
low risk through the UK National Risk Assessment, though official clarification has We have dedicated risk management teams yet to be published.
We participated in those that monitor and investigate suspicious assessments related to gambling with HM activities in Online and Retail.
Over 100 Treasury and the Home Office during 2014. dedicated staff work around the clock to We consider the betting shop industry to conduct real-time transactional monitoring of be low risk given the low level of SARs that Online deposits and withdrawals, and game originate from gambling.
Our teams are regularly trained on what betting shops be included following the we need to identify and report.
National Risk Assessment, additional controls As a cash business in Retail, there will always would need to be implemented in relation to customers spending or transacting the be a risk but we take that very seriously and have a dedicated Money Laundering equivalent of 2,000.
38 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 coRpoRate Responsibility We continue to review our talent pool, which Legislation requires that we define senior In many cases, people can choose the benefits that fit their lifestyle, reflecting the fact is critical to our succession planning process, managers as the directors of our subsidiary identifying the development needs and companies.
However, the Board believes this we have a very diverse colleague population.
potential of our top 300 managers.
information does not provide a meaningful Every colleague is eligible to earn a bonus analysis of how the Group operates so the We pride ourselves on the opportunities we and we encourage them to benefit from our data shown reflect the proportion of senior give our colleagues to develop their careers business success by investing in our share managers by our own internal grading system.
within William Hill and that three of our last four save schemes, which are offered each year For reporting purposes, there are 48 directors CEOs have all come from within the business, at a 20%discount to the share price.
We also of subsidiary companies, comprising 39 men including James Henderson who started as a support travel, partnering with Transport for and nine women.
trainee manager in Retail 30 years ago.
London to provide subsidised travelcards for London-based staff and with Halfords to The Retail Academy, established in 2012, Rewarding and celebrating support cycle to work schemes.
Around 2,500 ourcolleagues colleagues undertook the first stage of the We celebrate success in numerous ways, Our colleagues are critical to our success and programme The William Hill Way in 2014. including two major Group-wide events we want William Hill people to be engaged, A further 950 undertook the Stepping Up each year.
In May, 250 people gathered at excited and energised by our business.
programme to prepare Customer Service The Grand Hotel in Brighton from across the Assistants who want to go on to become William Hill world to recognise the winners Salary levels are dictated by market conditions Deputy Managers and 140 LBO managers and runners-up in the HOME Awards.
so we personalise what we offer colleagues went through Taking the Lead to prepare through our benefits, our bonus plans and These are awarded in 12 different categories, them for becoming a multi-site manager.
from National Shop Team of the Year to the ways in which we reward and recognise Our District Operations Managers have now peoples efforts.
Our range of benefits is, we Outstanding Contribution to Innovation, to completed the Maximising Performance Community Champion.
believe, the best in the industry.
We are also strong supporters of developing women at all levels of our business.
We have developed bespoke courses for women in administrative and frontline jobs, and created a programme for women managers focused on developing their skills and confidence.
Our Springboard programme brings up to 50 women a year through into junior management roles.
Gender diversity Having diversity across the Group remains a key focus for both the Board and the executive team, and the development team continues to focus on bringing through women as leaders through programmes such as Springboard.
The gender diversity across Bringing our leadership Together different levels of the Group is shown below.
In December 2014, James Henderson held Held in Shoreditch, London, where his first leadership conference as CEO, the Online business has established a bringing together the top 50 leaders to technology excellence centre, the event Gender diversity debate and develop our strategy.
Branded included presentations by members of the n Female n Male Together as the event that broke down executive management team and interactive geographic and channel boundaries, this sessions, including future gazing on was the first time this leadership team trends and technologies that could have a 7,627 6 260 had come together since the acquisitions significant impact on our business.
A series of the US and Australian businesses of Innovation Hubs showcased some 8,451 were completed.
of the best examples of innovations from 2 79 across the Group, from mobile apps to data management to the changing face of media.
Board of Senior All directors managers colleagues Strategic report 39 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 In September, colleagues who recorded 25 We have assessed the impact of our changed approach in a number of areas, or 40 years service attended our annual community Long Service Awards, celebrating with their including colleague welfare and security and are satisfied that this revised staffing partners with a weekend at the Ayr Gold Cup.
Employing 16,000 people in nine countries, model has been successfully implemented William Hill is now an international business Health and safety without significantly impacting our colleagues, but we are also a very local one, making an customer service or compliance obligations.
The health and safety of our colleagues active contribution to the local communities in and customers and those who come into which we operate.
Tackling anti-social behaviour contact with our business are of paramount We make a positive contribution to local We treat anti-social behaviour in our shops importance to us.
economies by offering flexible employment, extremely seriously.
In 2014, 40 anti-social We continue to strive for incremental contributing a substantial amount a year behaviour workshops were held, bringing improvement in Retail.
in taxes, in providing a meeting place for together our shop staff, the Security and members of local communities to take part Operations teams, and external agencies During the year we have reviewed our in an enjoyable pastime, in contributing to such as local police to address the issue.
property processes, assessed the policies and sponsoring a wide range of sports and These allowed staff to share experiences and and processes of all our international locations in supporting our colleagues efforts to raise best practice, and to highlight problems to and improved the standard of the LBO health, funds for charities.
police, with a subsequent increase in police safety and fire risk assessments.
Violence in visibility in affected shops.
This partnership the workplace is a key focus for us in 2015, Our community activities are carefully selected approach helps to reduce anti-social together with Westminster City Council as our for a number of reasons, including giving back behaviour and increase staff morale.
to the industry and communities in which we operate, and also to help those in hardship.
In April 2014, we changed our approach Human rights At the same time, our approach promotes the to lone working in the betting shops.
very best development in our colleagues and Having previously required all shops to be The Board considers that it is not necessary encourages them to be generous with their dual-manned from lunchtime onwards, we for the Group to operate a specific human time and efforts for worthwhile causes.
allowed certain shops to operate singlerights policy at present.
Our policies already manning as service levels demand.
operate within a framework to comply The William Hill Foundation with relevant laws, to behave in an ethical Before we implemented this, we undertook a manner and to respect the human rights of The William Hill Foundation was created pilot trial involving 400 shops.
This involved a our employees and other stakeholders in in 2011 as a hardship fund to support risk assessment taking account of the Health the business.
colleagues during these economically & Safety Executives lone working detailed challenging times.
In 2012, we achieved guidance and implementation of security The Corporate Responsibility Committee, charitable status for the Foundation and it changes prior to the pilot, briefings on best on behalf of the Board, is satisfied that became the umbrella organisation for Project practice guidance for LBO teams and a William Hills policies operate in a way that is Africa as well.
Four directors all William Hill shop buddy system.
Following successful consistent with the UNs Global Compact, leaders administer the 100,000 hardship implementation of the trial, evening lone work covering areas of human rights, labour, the fund and the donations received from was extended to around two-thirds of the environment and anti-corruption.
Robbie Savage estate, again on a risk-assessed basis.
is Patron of the Foundation.
Long-term reduction in crime Robberies Burglaries Cash-in-transit incidents 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 333 334 280 189 170 130 123 184 209 112 95 90 51 35 26 27 40 43 29 20 17 40 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 coRpoRate Responsibility Our colleagues continued to be active In addition, we pay a voluntary donation In 2014, we included our operations in Manila participants in fundraising events and the to the British Greyhound Racing Fund to and Australia Australia electricity consumption Foundation matched over 41,000 in funds help sustain that industry.
Through our two was included in 2013.
The number of colleagues applying for greyhound stadia we assist with greyhound to 59,606.5 tCO e. Within this, Scope 1 2 grants was 25% lower than in 2013. welfare, including funding an establishment emissions were 3,591.7 tCO e and Scope 2 that houses up to 25 dogs for up to three 2 emissions were 56,014.9 tCO e 2013: 2 We made charitable donations of 1.2m in months with the intention of permanently Scope 1 3,390.0 and Scope 2 54,014.9. total, the largest of which was 940,000 to re-homing them.
We sponsor some of However, our overall electricity consumption the Responsible Gambling Trust to support the leading greyhound racing events, in kilowatt hours was actually 7% lower in its independent work in problem gamblingincluding the Greyhound Derby and the 2014.
The difference, therefore, principally related research, education and treatment.
relates to an increase in DEFRA greenhouse The main work on Project Africa has now been gas conversion factors from 0.44548 in We are now the sponsor of a number of completed.
In 2014, the final project team 2013 to 0.49426 in 2014 for electricity across major sporting events and teams in the travelled to Ol Maisor in Kenya to help build a all regions.
Electricity and the UK both UK and Australia.
We have a groundmedical facility at the school.
This follows the account for 95% of our consumption, given breaking sponsorship deal with The Football library, teachers accommodation and water the Retail business and the location of our Association as an Official Supporter of the facilities we established in previous years.
England football team, and Official Supporter The Foundation directors have created a plan and Official Betting Partner of the FA Cup.
In 2013, we identified an intensity measure to support the community over a further three In Scotland, we are the Official Betting tonnes of CO equivalent per 1m of net 2 years, enabling our investment and colleagues Partner of the Scottish national football team, revenue to track our performance.
In 2014, generous donations to be fully utilised and to sponsor of the William Hill Scottish Cup in spite of the change in conversion rates ensure our commitment to sustainability is and Official Betting Partner of the Scottish we saw a year-on-year reduction of 9% fulfilled.
Colleagues have raised 225,000 to Premier League.
from 38.67 tCO e in 2013 to 35.04 tCO e in 2 2 support the project.
2014, with 8% growth in Group net revenue We also sponsor the PDCs World Darts in the period offsetting the tCO e increase.
In Australia, our sponsorships These data were calculated using DEFRA include the Brisbane Broncos rugby league Betting and sport have a long joint heritage.
football club and a number of racetracks, and Since the 1960s, the UK bookmaking in the US we sponsor the Haskell Invitational In 2014, we established our Energy industry has supported the racing industry Stakes at Monmouth Park racetrack in with a payment levied on our revenues from Management Forum, bringing together New Jersey.
functions from across the business on a UK horseracing.
quarterly basis to analyse our data, investigate Today, we pay up to 10.75% of UK Environment ways in which future greenhouse gas horseracing revenues from our shops We first reported an emissions figure tonnes measures can be introduced and identify together with significant sponsorship of CO potential energy saving initiatives around the equivalent tCO e for the Group in 2 2 investments and, more importantly, very 2012.
This includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 Group.
We reduce waste through recycling substantial payments for TV pictures from and re-use of materials.
We also recycle emissions, including natural gas consumption, the race tracks that are broadcast in our electricity consumption, refrigerant emissions paper, cans and plastic in our offices.
Our UK horseracing sponsorships and fuel from company cars.
include the Ayr Gold Cup and the Kempton Winter Festival.
Sponsorships and levies Horseracing levy Greyhound levy Global tonnes of CO e tCO e 16.5m 2 2 2.0m Greyhounds 0.4m 1% Darts 1.0m 59,607 Football 2.0m 57,466 56,377 Horseracing 0.7m 2012 2013 2014 Strategic report 41 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 performanCe 2014 2013 Comments Customers Customer Number of self-exclusions Retail 7,736 6,767 We have substantially increased the number of responsible gambling protection interactions in our LBOs to around 4,100 a month.
The number of customers making use of our self-exclusion systems continues to grow, though at a Number of self-exclusions Online 20,666 17,915 slower rate than the interactions, suggesting the system was already working relatively successfully.
and Telephone RIDDOR reportable accidents 12 232 RIDDOR reporting changed in 2014 to require accidents to be reported when they customers resulted in absence from work for over seven days instead of over three days.
Customer Retail Net Promoter Score 53% 47% Mystery shopper scores in Retail have continued to improve since a new satisfaction customer service programme was implemented in 2013 and 2014.
Disputes referred to IBAS 494 453 Our customers can rely on an independent arbitrator to resolve customer IBAS disputes found in customers favour 0.6% 1.1% disputes.
In around 99% cases, our original decisions are upheld.
Colleagues Protection RIDDOR reportable accidents 11 37 RIDDOR reporting changed in 2014 to require accidents to be reported when colleagues they resulted in absence from work for over seven days instead of over three days.
Like-for-like comparisons are not possible.
Incidents of violence in the workplace 313 375 The number of physical attacks on LBO staff fell in 2014 by 17%.
During the year, 40 anti-social behaviour workshops were held to address violence in the workplace.
Number of robberies 123 130 The number of actual robberies at 78 excluding attempts continued to decrease through our ongoing security plan, down another 9% in 2014.
Number of burglaries 35 51 The proportion of burglaries classed as attempts in 2014 was 29%.
A number of burglaries were combated with the use of StaffSafe.
Number of cash-in-transit incidents 17 20 41% of all cash-in-transit incidents were attempts.
Awareness training and CounterPlan have reduced incidents.
Average cash loss from 401 390 Average cash loss, though higher than in 2013, is still showing a significant OTC robberies decline compared to a high of 493 in 2008.
Training and Total number of training days 21,931 28,145 Our business is sustainable as we attract and retain engaged employees.
development Value of training investment 000 826.9 785.4 We offer clear career progression and development opportunities.
Engagement Employee Engagement Index 66% 51% We continued to make good progress in encouraging greater participation participation rates in our annual colleague engagement survey.
Support William Hill Foundation grants 32,951 42,406 The Foundation supported colleagues from across the business, making 23 grants at an average of c1,400.
Community Environment Total CO equivalent tonnes 59,607 57,466 Although our tonnes of CO e increased, our consumption of electricity 2 2 which represents our main environmental impact reduced by 7%.
Industry UK horseracing levy m 16.5 17.5 We continue to support sports through sponsorship and the horseracing and relationships Sports sponsorship m 3.8 6.4 greyhound racing levies.
Community Employee charity matching scheme 40.3 56.9 Our colleagues participated in 114 charity events that we matched in 2014. engagement 000 Responsible Gambling Trust donation 940.3 863.3 William Hill is the biggest single contributor to the Responsible Gambling 000 Trust.
This is a key part of our commitment to supporting problem gambling research, education and treatment.
