62 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 reporT oF THe corporaTe responsiBiliTY commiTTee Membership and meetings Main activities during 2014 The following is the current membership of the CR remains an important matter for William CR Committee together with the year in which Hill.
Further details of key issues and progress membership commenced.
James Henderson on CR matters during 2014 are provided is the executive director responsible for CR.
in a CR report on pages 30 to 41 of this Annual Report.
Year of Director appointment During the year the CR Committee reviewed Ashley Highfield, Chairman 2008 a number of reports on CR-related matters, Gareth Davis 2010 in particular on health and safety, charitable Sir Roy Gardner 2014 donations and related activity, and on Georgina Harvey 2011 interactions with regulatory authorities.
the corporate CR performance and issues in relation to James Henderson 2014 responsiBility cr employees, community engagement and Imelda Walsh 2011 customers were reviewed regularly and are committee sets the captured in a dashboard which facilitates The Company Secretary acts as secretary to groups cr policies, discussion and an assessment on potential the Committee.
The CR Committee meetings ensures the Business trends and other changes.
Following the are regularly attended by relevant members introduction of new statutory environmental of the executive committee and management operates in a reporting obligations in 2013, the Committee team, so that informed presentations are sustainaBle Way and also received updates on the approach to made by individuals responsible for key areas advises the Board on environmental performance during 2014. such as human resources, health and safety, security and regulation.
The Committee environmental, social Ashley Highfield also receives a briefing, at least annually, Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee and ethical matters.
from an external specialist consultant in respect of health and safety arrangements.
The Committee met on three occasions during 2014 and details of attendance at Committee meetings is set out on page 56.
Role of the CR Committee A full copy of the terms of reference for the Committee can be obtained via the website at www.
com or by request to the Company Secretary.
The Committees principal responsibilities are to: review CR policies and practices for the Group and set new CR policies as appropriate: review CR performance across a range of performance metrics: ensure the business operates in a sustainable way: advise the Board on environmental, social and ethical matters: monitor CR risks as part of the Groups overall risk management framework: and review and approve the annual CR report within this document.
The Chairman of the CR Committee reports to the Board on the outcome of meetings.
