Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 35 Corporate responsibility RESPONSIBLE RETAILING How we operate as a business is very important to us.
We care about where our products come from, the people that make them, and how products are bought, made, moved and sold.
OUR programme RESPONSIBILITY highlights We want to ensure that we are offering high quality, affordable products that our customers can always trust.
Our corporate responsibility CR programme ensures we work in a way that is right for our customers, colleagues, suppliers and communities, creating longer term sustainable growth.
24.2% 18m As a result of our efforts over the last year, we were awarded Most Reduction in carbon Equipment donated through sustainable retailer of the year at the Retail Industry Awards.
emissions 2005 baseline the Lets Grow programme since 2008 This section of the report does not cover all the work we do within our programme, but gives an overview of key activities.
The full Corporate Responsibility Review 2013 14 will be available for you to download at www.
24 2,600 STAKEHOLDER engagement Weve signed up to 24 Farmers involved in our Engaging with key stakeholder groups is essential to delivering an Public Health Responsibility farming programme effective and impactful CR programme.
We regularly communicate with Deal pledges a variety of stakeholders including investors, customers, government, non-governmental organisations, colleagues, communities and suppliers.
Responsibility for overall stakeholder engagement falls within the Corporate Services function of the business.
It enables Morrisons to AWARD 2013 14 identify the issues that matter most and ensure continuous improvement of strategy.
In turn, this helps us to make informed and responsible 1.
Employee Engagement Award decisions, respond to changing needs and adhere to regulatory and 2.
Enhancing Livelihoods Award best practice.
Most Sustainable Retailer of the Year 4.
European CSR Award MATERIALITY Issues are identified through analysis and feedback from various 1 stakeholder groups.
Stakeholder concerns are then prioritised and measured through our key performance indicators KPIs.
Internally, 3 we map KPIs against our materiality and risk matrix, clearly identifying the likelihood and consequence for each target.
2 As the business continues to grow and change, we regularly review our CR agenda to ensure its reflective of the current issues that matter most.
In addition, we work closely with our assurance providers, DNV GL, who provide an independent critical analysis of our programme, ensuring 4 we continue to strengthen our materiality, risk and business priorities.
2014 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 36 Corporate responsibility RESPONSIBLE RETAILING CONTINUED GOVERNANCE better with our suppliers to manage this risk.
We have worked closely with our dairy supply groups to explore ways in which individual farms Best practice in responsible business performance and reporting is can be protected from this increased volatility and have launched a new constantly developing.
Our current CR programme reflects changes both milk pricing model for cheese production which paves the way for new in the operation, scale and development of the Group and influencing structures, based on hedging, which can enable farmers to protect their economic, social and environmental factors.
Central commitments and KPIs are managed under the stewardship Further information on Morrisons farming programme can be found at: of relevant Management Board Directors.
Their leadership is assessed www.
com alongside their wider performance as part of their Personal Development Review.
ETHICAL TRADING Morrisons is fully committed to sourcing products in an ethical manner Progress reports and approval for significant strategic developments and promoting the rights of workers throughout our worldwide supply are presented to the Management Board.
Our Ethical Trading Code is currently incorporated into our terms strategic developments are reported to the Corporate Compliance and and conditions with suppliers.
Key elements are the payment of a living Responsibility Committee for review and comment.
wage, non-excessive working hours, a safe working environment and that employment is freely chosen.
A description of the structure and responsibilities of both the Management Board and the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee can This year, we implemented the key recommendations of an independent be found in the Corporate governance report on pages 47 to 58. review of our ethical trading programme commissioned in late 2012.
This included the development of a risk-based ethical strategy across our supply chain with an assessment of all suppliers, its enablement through FRESH a robust data management system and an accompanying assessment and monitoring programme.
MORRISONS FARMING PROGRAMME Since 2009, the Morrisons farming programme has been at the centre We made an investment in the year to implement the strategy, including of our relationship with the farming community.
Farmers involved in the dedicated resource in our UK and Hong Kong buying teams and programme include the 2,600 beef, pork and lamb farmers who all supply membership of SEDEX ethical data systems.
directly into our Woodheads meat business.
The main focus has been on addressing the issues highlighted from our The key objective of the programme is to work closely with the UK 2012 Fair Working Conditions audit programme, as well as risk mapping farming supply base to ensure its fit for the future and able to provide our own brand supply base with a view to informing our supplier high quality, affordable food for our customers from sustainable assessment and site audit strategy for 2014. production practices.
In 2014, we will be launching our new Ethical Trading Policy, incorporating our updated Ethical Trading Code, communicating specific requirements We saw the first tangible result of our own livestock breeding programme for all own brand suppliers to be members of SEDEX and share their at our farm at Dumfries House: two bulls bred on the farm were selected ethical information with us.
for their superior breeding characteristics and, for the first time in the UK, their feed conversion efficiency.
Coupled with changes in beef rearing High risk suppliers will be required to share site audit information via systems, superior genetics have the potential to reduce the amount of SEDEX from independent audit providers to demonstrate commitment animal feed required to produce 1kg of beef by as much as 38%, freeing to our Ethical Trading Code.
Monitoring and assessing processes in the up a significant land area for additional food production and significantly second half of 2014 will identify further supplier compliance and audit reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
In September, we hosted our first Farm Open Day and Agriculture Briefing at Dumfries House, where we showcased the latest VALUE developments in beef and lamb production.
A major focus of the day was increasing volatility in agricultural markets and how we can work AVOIDING FOOD WASTE We own, operate and control a greater proportion of our fresh food Left: supply chain than is typical for major grocery retailers in the UK.
Group Corporate Services director, Martyn We buy direct from primary meat and produce farmers and suppliers in Jones talking at Morrisons the UK and utilise more of what we buy in our own abattoirs or produce agriculture briefing.
We buy whole animals and, where practical, we have the capability to process whole crops.
This enables us to manage and reduce associated waste.
By having a greater degree of control over more of our fresh UK food chain, we are able to drive efficiency through flexibility from farm gate to our customers.
Following the successful completion of the Waste Resources and Action Programmes WRAPs Courtauld 2, we are now signatories to Courtauld 3, which continues to build on reducing household food, drink and supply chain waste in grocery manufacturing and retail, and increasing the recyclability and recycling of packaging.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 37 Left: Traffic light labelling introduced on our products.
More of The Stuff Good We have focused on opportunities in food redistribution within the Methodology supply chain and have begun to support the UKs first social supermarket The information below left is taken from our Group Carbon Footprint, as a trial.
Morrisons own brand products that would ordinarily be prepared by SKM Enviros on our behalf since 2007.
We have reported for redistributed to company shops in the food industry can now be used in the calendar year 1 January to 31 December for all years in order to remain a community equivalent.
Access is allowed for people on low incomes, consistent with these reports.
established through their entitlement to benefits, and is further We have used UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance limited by membership criteria.
The community shop is being run as a 2013 version to prepare these numbers, and the latest emissions factors social enterprise and has the potential to extend into a network with from DEFRA DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
The report includes all major sources of carbon emissions from the Consumer food waste is best tackled through consistent communication, operation of the Groups supermarkets, manufacturing and distribution delivered in a positive way.
Weve operated our own Great Taste, Less sites and operation of its haulage fleet.
Some minor exemptions are: Waste campaign for a number of years delivering simple, effective and regular messages to our customers.
Subsidiaries and joint ventures Bos Bros: Dutch vegetable packer that deals with energy locally: Were now changing consumer communications into the more widely recognised Love Food, Hate Waste campaign designed by WRAP and Wm Morrison HK Ltd: Hong Kong office that deals with energy locally: adopted by the wider grocery retail sector.
The messages are very similar The Morrisons Farm at Dumfries House Ltd: joint venture that deals but we have accepted that a more uniform approach will ultimately help with energy locally: and broaden consumer awareness.
Wm Morrison Bananas Ltd: a subsidiary that is operated by the minority shareholder.
PUBLIC HEALTH RESPONSIBILITY DEAL Morrisons is a signatory to the Governments Public Health Responsibility Sites Deal, which aims to tackle health inequalities through food, alcohol, A number of distribution sites are operated by third parties who are physical activity and health in the workplace.
responsible for the energy and carbon, including Dordon, Birstall, Feltham, Bury, Willand, Droitwich, Clipper, Northfleet, Bathgate Under the Deal, weve signed a series of collaborative pledges and and Bunzl.
annually report our progress to the Department of Health.
Sources In August, we began to roll out the Department of Healths traffic Fuel oil: Only three sites have fuel oil, which is estimated to account for light labelling system on Morrisons own brand products, providing less than 0.1% of the total footprint.
clearer nutritional information to our customers, helping them to easily monitor fat, saturated fat, sugars and salt intake.
The labelling is implemented in line with labelling changes under the Food Information SERVICE for Consumers Regulation.
In October, we also signed a new pledge on saturated fat, to support LETS GROW and enable people to consume less saturated fat through actions such Our award winning Lets Grow programme completed its sixth year as product menu reformulation, reviewing portion sizes, education and of operation.
The programmes ongoing commitment is to educate information, and incentivising customers to choose healthier options.
children, our shoppers of tomorrow, about the life cycle of food through the practical experience of growing fresh fruit and vegetables in an REDUCING EMISSIONS outdoor environment.
Group GHG Emissions for year ending 31st December Lets Grow provides UK schools with free gardening equipment, cooking 2005 2012 2013 Change vs. equipment and key teaching resources.
Since the scheme began in 2008, Emission source Baseline Year Prior Year Current Year Baseline we have now given away over 18m worth of equipment.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Our newly appointed in-store Community Champions helped to engage Natural Gas 102,470 138,842 148,129 44.6% with local schools taking part in the Lets Grow programme, encouraging Haulage 139,847 106,021 97,294 30.4% tours of Morrisons Market Street and hosting school assemblies on the story of food.
Business Miles 4,511 4,771 4,217 6.5% Fugitive Emissions Working with Garden Organic, we have also introduced online learning for teachers with a selection of gardening webinars.
Refrigerant 455,929 217,481 190,793 58.2% Energy purchased for own use Following research and feedback from registered schools, we are now planning a Lets Grow refresh.
We will launch a Morrisons educational Electricity 798,596 730,109 697,310 12.7% website aimed at Key Stage 2 and Key Stage 3 levels, to explain the Other process of food before it arrives at Morrisons.
Resources on the site will Staff Travel 37,282 36,117 35,081 5.9% also include a series of films and supporting lesson plans for each Market Waste 36,730 23,030 21,606 41.2% Street craft discipline including meat, fish, produce and bakery.
Total 1,575,365 1,256,371 1,194,430 24.2% Intensity ratio: kg CO e per ft GIA 50.4 33.4 31.3 37.9% 2 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 38 OUR RISKS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW We mana ge risk through our established framework.
See page 40 Our Chief Financial Officer, Trevor Strain, discusses our financial performance.
See page 43 Above: During the year we opened our 500th store in Hoddesdon, Hertfordshire.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 39 Below: We opened 18 new core stores during the year.
Below: Total capital expenditure in the year was 1,086m, which included 177m relating to the completion of our arrangement with Ocado.
