Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Sustainability Better business, sustainable growth The Groups sustainability programme Our people shapes the way that we do business.
It addresses Wolseleys material We value our people and are committed to train and develop all of our employees.
We understand, respect and value personal sustainability concerns, mitigating the and cultural differences and promote diversity.
associated risks and offering business opportunities.
The programme supports Health and safety profitable growth and underpins the We will provide a safe and healthy working environment and we business strategy.
will not compromise the health or safety of any individual.
We dened our seven material Ethics and compliance sustainability programme components in 2012 following a comprehensive review We are committed to observing both the spirit and the letter of the laws of all jurisdictions in which we operate, and to with each business and with the Board.
complying with our Code of Conduct.
During 2013 14, the Board reconrmed Environmental performance its commitment to these programme components and we have continued We will run efficient operations that consume less energy and fuel, produce less waste and reduce any negative effect of our tomake progress in these areas.
business activities on the environment.
We will explore opportunities to reduce the environmental Governance impacts of our suppliers and customers.
Accountability: The overall programme Monitoring performance: Specialist teams is agreed by the Board and reviewed in each business monitor performance for annually to ensure its ongoing relevance to their specic area of responsibility.
The Group Product integrity business strategy, stakeholder expectations Risk, Compliance and Sustainability team and international sustainability agendas.
monitor performance across all areas of the The Groups Company Secretary and General sustainability programme, with the exception We will work with our suppliers to maintain excellent standards Counsel is responsible to the Board for the of Our people which is overseen by the overall sustainability programme.
Wolseleys Internal of product quality and safety.
Audit teams periodically test compliance Implementation: With direction from the with policy and adherence to procedures.
We expect our vendors, contractors and agents to adhere Board, the businesses define and execute Individual programme components receive local action plans according to their own toour Code of Conduct and to adopt similar standards.
frequent review and input by the Board and the particular level of development and the greatest Executive Committee.
opportunities for progress in line with strategy.
The Group Risk, Compliance and Sustainability Risk management: Non-financial as well team oversees implementation.
as financial risks are assessed as part of the Sustainable construction Groups comprehensive risk management Managing performance: Objectives and, process.
These include fraud, corruption, where appropriate, quantied targets are set product quality, employee, health and safety for all sustainability programme components.
We will be a positive link in the sustainable construction and environmental risks.
For further information For some focus areas, Group-wide KPIs have on the Groups risk management programme, supply chain.
KPIs have not been set for all see pages 42 to 47. elements of the programme as it is not always practical to bring distinct local methods under one unied metric.
Improved performance is the primary goal.
Community engagement We will voluntarily contribute our time and our financial support Sustainability and strategy to the communities in which we work.
The symbols below are displayed on the following pages to indicate which of our strategic objectives are most directly supported Further detail on progress in 2013 14 and objectives for 2014 15 by each sustainability programme component.
com The objectives are summarised on page 7.
Additional information, including case studies 1 2 3 4 5 6 www.
com Wolseley plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Key Denotes the strategic objectives which are most directly supported by this component of the sustainability 1 2 3 4 5 6 programme see page 7 for a list of the objectives Diversity and inclusion 1 2 3 4 5 6 Our people Over the last 12 months, good progress has been made on the diversity and inclusion agenda.
Each business has strengthened Maximising opportunities Managing risks the processes that it has in place to support improved diversity and inclusion.
For example, cultural diversity has been improved at the Skilled, motivated and The behaviour of our Nordic regions head ofce through targeted recruitment and internal engaged employees deliver employees underpins all of international assignments.
A number of diversity measures are excellent customer service, the Companys principal regularly tracked and gender diversity statistics are presented below.
For more detail on Our diversity and inclusion policy statement can be seen on page76.
relationships, maximise Wolseleys principal risks, operational efficiencies and please see pages 42 to 47.
Total Men Total Women fast-track the development Directors Board 8 3 ofnew business models.
Senior leadership 87 10 Total employees 31,879 9,622 Total employee numbers of 41,501 are reported above.
The lower number of 39,557 reported on Progress against our objectives in 2013 14 page 4 is the number of Full Time Equivalent employees.
Three key objectives for 2013 14 were to measure diversity and Human Rights inclusion across the Group, to increase the movement of highpotential employees across our business and to relaunch the Both the United Nations Global Compact and Universal Declaration of executive leadership programme.
Human Rights have been considered in determining the human rights issues that are material to Wolseley.
These topics include employee Mobility policies covering topics such as anti-discrimination and a right to collective bargaining, health and safety, ethics and conduct.
All of these The movement of high-potential employees across the business issues are managed through policies and programmes of work and are is a key component of our talent management programme, regularly monitored for compliance.
Other human rights issues are not supporting the delivery of our strategy and accelerating the sharing listed here as they are not material to Wolseley.
Business partners and of best practices across the Group.
During 2013 14, both short suppliers are expected to conform to Wolseleys Code of Conduct.
and long-term international assignments of high-performing people have taken place with successful repatriation following completion of the assignments.
This programme also supports diversity of thought as each placement brings together different cultures and business approaches.
Executive leadership programme The top 100 leaders from across the Group completed a newly tailored Wolseley executive leadership programme hosted by the International Institute for Management Development in Switzerland.
The programme is designed to enhance leadership capability and agility and provides valuable insight on how individual and collective styles and capabilities will impact Wolseleys performance and success.
UK employees double training hours Wolseley UK employees have completed twice the number of Gender diversity Women as a percentage of the total online training courses compared to last year.
95 per cent of 27% Wolseley UKs employees improved their customer service skills Directors Board by passing a bespoke customer service course.
Health and safety awareness was also high on the training agenda with 10% 95 per cent of employees passing a new and updated Manual Senior leadership Handling module, to improve safety for themselves and their customers.
Wolseley UK continues to work towards 100 per 23% cent completion on these two compulsory courses.
Total employees The Senior Leadership group at Wolseley consists of managers drawn from business units and central functions with responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Company.
Wolseley plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Sustainability continued Key Denotes the strategic objectives which are most directly supported by this component of the sustainability 1 2 3 4 5 6 programme see page 7 for a list of the objectives 2 3 1 2 3 4 6 Health and safety Ethics and compliance Maximising opportunities Managing risks Maximising opportunities Managing risks A robust health and safety The principal risks relate to Compliance with the letter The business is exposed to programme protects manual handling, working at and the spirit of the law risks of bribery and fraud.
our workforce, improves height, the use of motorised and a commitment to high Non-compliance with productivity by reducing the equipment and vehicle ethical standards strengthens governmental regulations number of days lost to injury collisions.
The Group our reputation with is one of our principal risks.
and enhances profitability by has introduced improved customers, suppliers and For more detail, see page 46. reducing our liabilities.
standards to mitigate other stakeholders.
Progress against our objectives in 2013 14 Progress against our objectives in 2013 14 Our primary objectives for the year were to reduce our injury, lost Our focus for 2013 14 was to continue to ensure that our compliance workday and collision rates by 2 per cent and to introduce and programmes in relation to fraud, bribery and corruption and antitrust implement a new Group minimum standard for health and safety.
laws are fully embedded in business practice.
Mixed performance against targets Face-to-face antitrust training The injury rate has been reduced by 8 per cent and the lost workday A refresher course on antitrust, delivered face-to-face by external rate by 2.8 per cent during 2013 14.
We regret to report that the experts, has been introduced in parts of the Group for employees Group collision rate has increased slightly 0.2 per cent.
Actions are with the highest potential exposure to antitrust risks.
This training being taken to mitigate this increase, including enhanced policies programme will continue throughout 2014 15. and procedures for drivers of company vehicles and improved driver safety training programmes.
Compliance training programmes Employees joining the business since the major roll-out of the Group minimum standard Groups Code of Conduct, anti-bribery and corruption and antitrust A new Group minimum standard applicable to all Wolseley training programmes were trained during 2013 14.
All businesses businesses was introduced in 2013 14.
Full implementation will continue to refresh these training programmes.
The standard sets 43 minimum Whistleblowing requirements.
Some locations have gone further than the Group minimum standard and are already compliant with OHSAS 18001.
We continue to encourage our employees to report any incidents All businesses were assessed against the OHSAS 18001 standard of non-compliance through our Group-wide condential reporting during the year to identify improvement opportunities beyond the system, Speak Up!.
Employees can disclose information in any Group minimum standard for the next two to three years.
language, condentially and anonymously via an international hotline, voicemail or web message.
Injury, lost workday and collision rates Antitrust and Anti-bribery and corruption training Face-to-face training was 8% improvement conducted in parts of the Injury rate 1.47 per 100,000 hours worked Group to consider appropriate behaviour in a range of scenarios.
2.8% improvement Further training is planned.
Lost workday rate 61.73 per 100 employees 0.2% deterioration Fleet collision rate 17.02 per 100 vehicles Wolseley plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Carbon emissions and waste 2 3 Environmental performance Wolseleys reported data includes all major businesses and head ofce locations with 25 employees or more, representing over 99 per Maximising opportunities Managing risks cent of Wolseley Groups total employee numbers.
All scope 1 and 2 emissions and selected scope 3 emissions are reported.
Further detail The reduced consumption Rising energy prices and on the data provided can be found in the Basis of Reporting of energy, fuel and water increasing green taxes document on the Wolseley plc website www.
and production of less waste can reduce Wolseleys profit reduces costs, improves margins.
All business units Total carbon emissions operational efficiencies and have reduction targets in Tonnes of CO equivalent Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 improves profit margins.
place to minimise these rising costs.
We also aimed to further reduce estimation levels in our carbon and waste reporting.
tCO2e m revenue Two-year Carbon emissions 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 Variance Strong performance in carbon and waste reduction stretch Scope 1 & 2 emissions 32.4 27.9 28.0 13.4% targets almost achieved Scope 3 emissions 7.2 8.7 8.6 20.4% Over the last two years we reduced carbon emissions by 7.3 per cent and tonnage of waste sent to landll by 18 per cent both per Total emissions 39.5 36.6 7.3% 36.7 million of revenue.
The waste target was increased from 15 per cent to 23 per cent after one year of the two-year programme as the initial target had already been met.
Examples of how the Total waste Tonnes businesses have improved their environmental performance are Landlled Incinerated Recycled detailed on the Wolseley plc website www.
78,766 70,988 70,943 Carbon and waste data are more accurately measured and 12,520 externallyassured 14,948 16,638 9,445 7,979 7, 282  PwC were engaged to test the Groups carbon and waste data and have provided a limited assurance 56,801 48,062 47,022 statement for 2013 14 data.
Data accuracy continues to improve with only 16 per cent of carbon data 46 per cent in 2011 12 being based on estimated numbers in 2013 14.
2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 Any waste volumes for which it is unknown whether the waste is sent to landll or is incinerated are included in the landll totals.
Carbon emissions and waste PwC has provided limited assurance against ISAE 3000 for selected key data in 2014.
Where you see the symbol in this report it indicates data has been externally assured.
For the full limited 7.3% improvement assurance opinion see page 54.
For our reporting criteriasee our Basis of Reporting document at www.
com Carbon 36.7 tCO2e per m revenue Our approach to measuring carbon was developed in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG Protocol.
Emissions are calculated using DEFRA carbon factors and are reported 18% improvement as tonnes of CO2 equivalent abbreviated as tCO2e, based on the Global Warming Potential GWP of each of the basket of six greenhouse gases, as dened by the Kyoto Protocol.
Landlled waste 3.6 tonnes per m revenue Inaccuracies identied during preparation for assurance resulted in adjustments to the 2011 12 and 2012 13 carbon and waste data.
Reductions over two years to Due to rounding of the gures in the bar charts and table there is not a precise correlation with the July 2014. accurate totals and percentage performance gures.
Total revenue is used as the relative measure for carbon and waste performance, rather than revenue for the ongoing business.
Wolseley plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Sustainability continued Key Denotes the strategic objectives which are most directly supported by this component of the sustainability 1 2 3 4 5 6 programme see page 7 for a list of the objectives 2 3 6 Product integrity Maximising opportunities Managing risks Sourcing and supplying safe, Product-related litigation quality products improves our is recognised as one margins, enhances customer of our significant risks.
satisfaction and confidence For more detail on how and enables branch staff to weare managing the risk, devote more time to sales please see page 44. and customer service.
Driving product quality through supplierqualication Progress against our objectives in 2013 14 Ferguson in the USA has partnered with a leading risk management technology company to collect information The focus for the year under review was to keep all businesses on from its suppliers, including statements of financial health, track to meeting their targets under the product integrity programme certicates of insurance and indemnity agreements.
and to share best practice across the Group.
Ferguson requests that all suppliers enrol in and complete avendor qualication process.
Working towards higher standards A set of minimum requirements were dened during 2013 14 to promote a consistent level of product and supplier due diligence.
Each business has been implementing its plan to comply with these requirements.
A standard set of KPIs are reported against every six months and progress is monitored by the Board.
The businesses share best practice through regular calls and a team web portal.
Sourcing timber responsibly Wolseley has assessed its timber products for a number of years and, where appropriate, works with specialist business partners toensure that the systems we have in place meet the requirements of the regulations and our sourcing policies.
Timber suppliers to Wolseley are required to confirm their compliance with legal standards and to give access on request to relevant Wolseley UK sets shining example compliance documentation and allow reasonable access to all ongreen energy information, property and or materials relevant to the performance ofthe agreement.
Eight thousand solar panels have been installed on the roof of Wolseley UKs National Distribution Centre NDC.
The installation, carried out over a six-month period, is set to produce two megawatts of electricity per year.
At full capacity USA lab receives ISO IEC 17025 accreditation output the system will completely power Wolseley UKs NDC The Metrology and Materials and is expected to generate up to 6.5 million of revenue over Services Group at Ferguson, 20 years.
The payback period of the installation is 6.8 years, USA, which tests product which means the NDC will receive free energy after seven conformance and performance, years.
Wolseley UK will also achieve carbon savings of around has achieved accreditation, 1,280 tonnes per year.
Wolseley UK continues to lead the way demonstrating the quality and by investing in the technology that it advocates.
reliability of its testing procedures.
Equivalent to powering 450 homes based on UK government typical electricity usage gures.
Wolseley plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information 2 3 3 Sustainable construction Community engagement Maximising opportunities Managing risks Maximising opportunities Managing risks Where the market Suppressed market Engagement with the Wolseley operates in a highly opportunity exists, we conditions and pressure communities in which we competitive marketplace, can gain market share on margins are two of the operate promotes our with many locallyby stocking sustainable Groups most significant business, attracts high established competitors.
construction products and by risks see page 43. quality recruits, teaches us Community engagement can offering training and advice to Sustainable construction about our customers and enhance our local reputation our customers.
products open up new enhances employee skills and allow us to compete market opportunities.
Progress against our objectives in 2013 14 Progress against our objectives in 2013 14 The objective remains for our businesses to continue to provide Our businesses seek to be contributing members to the communities access to sustainable products and training, in line with local in which they operate.
The Group also supports a number of market opportunity.
charitable organisations both at a Group and a business unit level.
Facilitating the growth of renewable energy products Charitable support We continue to engage our customers in sustainable construction.
During 2013 14, Wolseleys businesses contributed to a great number We publish sustainable product guides to assist customers in of charities, including support for neglected and vulnerable children product selection and provide training on both the products and provision of care for sufferers of cancer and other illnesses.
themselves and on how to participate in relevant government Employee involvement incentive programmes.
Our employees engaged in a great number of community and Joining the debate on sustainable construction charity events.
Visit the Wolseley plc website www.
com Wolseley actively engages with policy makers and trade associations for examples of the events and schemes our employees and to accelerate the uptake of sustainable construction products.
businesses have supported over the last year.
For example, during 2013 14, Wolseley UK participated in various campaigns alongside the Association for the Conservation of Energy including the retention of the reduced VAT rate on energy Wolseley Canada sponsor Special efficient products and amendments to the Energy Company Olympics Canada Obligation.
Wolseleys businesses in Denmark and Finland are also In 2014, Wolseley Canada renewed its national sponsorship of represented at trade associations seeking to develop energy and Special Olympics Canada for another two years.
Wolseley Canada employees have supported the Special Olympics SO movement, raising CAD$2.5 million including sponsorship fees and volunteering to organise and participate in events.
Read more about the Special Olympics at www.
UK supports uptake of renewable heating products To help customers to benefit from a new government subsidy The Strategic report has been approved by the Board and programme, the Renewable Heat signed on its behalf by: Incentive, Wolseley UK stocks a wide range of relevant products and provides training at eight centres across the country.
Ian Meakins Group Chief Executive Wolseley plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
