How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Simply put, if you are in business for the long term, doing us on sustainability issues were worth at least 1.35 billion good is good business.
Sustainability issues increasingly to the Group in 2014, equivalent to 12% of revenues, a 7% impact the operations, strategies and communications of increase on the previous year.
As these brands our clients adapt to Improving efficiency: managing risk and reputation social and environmental challenges they look to our Implementing consistent ethical standards and selecting companies for the best advice and insight.
By developing suppliers who share our values, managing our environmental our sustainability expertise and by improving our own footprint and investing in communities helps to protect our social and environmental performance, we can forge reputation and that of our clients, while cutting costs and stronger relationships with our clients and generate value reducing legal, financial and operational risks.
for our business and society.
Preparing for the long term Sustainability and our business By 2030, a predicted 4.9 billion-strong global middle class will drive demand for consumer goods and services.
But to meet Our work to identify, manage and reduce our sustainability the needs of this huge market, brands will have to overcome impacts, while maximising our positive contribution, is significant social and environmental challenges.
The impact an important enabler to our strategy today and essential of climate change, ecosystem decline and water scarcity will to preparing our business to succeed in the longer term.
limit supplies of natural resources, increase material and manufacturing costs, and disrupt supply chains.
As the worlds Enabling our business strategy population reaches nine billion, there will be unprecedented strains on food resources, infrastructure and public services.
As shown on pages 16 and 17 of this Annual Report, Access to employment and the need for equality of our four strategic priorities are new markets, new media, opportunity will continue to be major concerns.
Society data investment management and the application of will look to business to play a major role in addressing these technology, and horizontality.
challenges, while technology will continue to transform the Our work to improve our sustainability performance way consumers and citizens engage with brands, and keep and integrate consistently-high ethical, social and the spotlight on business practices and values.
environmental standards enables our strategy by: To succeed in this new environment, brands will Improving access to skills WPP is a people business, have to make fundamental changes to business models, supply and to best serve our clients we need a diverse talent pool, chains, products and services and to the way they engage with with the most skilled and creative people.
We need to make customers and stakeholders.
They will look to our companies sure we have the right people in all our markets, including for the strategic insight, research and communications services faster-growing economies where our industry is less they need to make this change happen.
well-established, and in all our disciplines.
Our work to Todays leading businesses have already started on this implement leading employment practices, to create inclusive journey and our companies are working with many of these workplaces and to develop skills both inside and outside pioneers.
As these longer-term trends become more important our business, help us to do this.
for our clients, their significance will grow for WPP too and the Supporting access to new business Managing and work our companies are doing today will lay the groundwork improving our sustainability performance enables us to for success in the business environment of the future.
meet changing client expectations and to open up new sources of revenue.
A growing number of client tender processes include sustainability requirements as standard Performance 2014 as well as detailed requirements in areas like privacy or equal opportunities.
Demonstrating our credentials helps us to win this business.
As more clients look to integrate Access to skills sustainability into their brand strategies, marketing and communications, they need service providers with the right There is fierce competition for talent in our industry.
Our expertise and who share their values.
This is creating new companies focus on recruitment, retention and development opportunities for our companies.
Clients who engaged with to make sure we have the right people and skills to serve WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 159 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review our clients across all locations and disciplines and to grow Gender diversity 2010-2014 our business in line with our strategic priorities.
% women 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 WPP Board 24% 29% 19% 19% 19% Inclusion and diversity Executive leaders 31% 32% 32% 31% 31% Diversity in our business fosters creativity, and enables us Senior to meet the needs of our diverse client base and to create work managers 46% 47% 47% 47% 48% that connects with consumers in every market and every niche.
Total full-time By recruiting talented people from all backgrounds we can employees 54% 54% 54% 54% 54% widen our talent pool, and by creating inclusive workplaces we can inspire and enable our people to do their best work.
To embed diversity and inclusion, many of our companies Ethnic diversity UK and US have senior diversity champions, mentoring programs, diversity and unconscious bias training for employees, We measure ethnic diversity in our offices in the UK and partnerships with specialist minority recruitment firms and the US using national definitions of ethnic racial minorities, internships and apprenticeships for diverse candidates.
Flexible such as those determined by the Equality and Human working patterns are increasingly common in our companies Rights Commission in the UK and the Equal Opportunity and support retention of a diverse workforce.
Our companies Commission in the US.
In 2014, 26% of full-time employees work with external partners and diversity organisations to in these countries were from ethnic minorities 2013: 25%.
make sure we implement best practices and learn from others.
We support these efforts at a Group level.
We run The Training, development and education X Factor, a senior mentoring and development program for women led by Charlotte Beers, the former global CEO of We develop bespoke training for our people to help them Ogilvy & Mather and chairman of J. Walter Thompson, that develop their skills and competencies and to serve the prepares senior and high potential WPP female leaders for the changing needs of our clients.
We invested 73.9 million next level of leadership.
By the end of 2015, 97 women will on training and welfare programs in 2014 2013: 64.4. have completed the program.
The network has encouraged Our training programs are designed to support delivery collaboration and knowledge sharing and enabled us to retain of our business strategy.
Maestro: Orchestrating Client and develop some of the best female talent in the industry.
We Value, is our week-long program for senior client leaders have also run two Women in Leadership Lessons, an event for held in 27 countries.
There have been 3,460 participants mid-level women, based on the key aspects of X Factor.
Over from 116 WPP companies since its inception in 2003.
Other 70 representatives from our New Yorkand London-based programs include WPP Spectrum, which connects and companies attended the course which is also led by Charlotte develops WPPs multidisciplinary global client leaders, Beers.
Following the success of these initiatives, we launched and an interactive WPP Leadership Toolkit.
WPP Stella, a network for our most senior women that will We also support education outside WPP, to encourage support efforts to achieve gender balance and encourage best the development of the skills our industry needs.
This is practice sharing between our companies.
The network is being particularly important in faster-growing markets where our piloted in the UK with a view to rolling it out to other markets.
industry is less well established.
For example, our support As at 31 December 2014, women comprised 24% of for the WPP School of Communications and Marketing in the WPP Board, 29% of non-executive directors, 31% of Shanghai is building skills in an important market for WPP.
directors and executive leaders in our operating companies, And in India, WPP has partnered with the Indian 46% of senior managers and 54% of total full-time School of Design and Innovation to offer a three-year employees.
Following further Board changes after the undergraduate course on marketing communications.
2015 AGM, women will comprise of 29% of the WPP The course will open later this year in Mumbai.
Board and 33% of non-executive directors in line with our Other partnerships include our support for the aspiration to increase and maintain female representation European Institute for Commercial Communications on the Board to at least 30% of non-executive directors.
Education EDCOM, which encourages collaboration WPP 160 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review between education establishments and the commercial Access to new business communications sector.
The WPP Fellowship program is a global Many of our most important clients now require our multidisciplinary and multi-geographical recruitment and companies to demonstrate strong sustainability credentials, training initiative for graduates, providing experience when tendering for new business.
By managing and across a range of marketing disciplines.
By the end of 2015, improving our sustainability performance, we help our which marks the 20th anniversary of the program, there companies to meet changing client procurement requirements.
will have been 170 Fellows who have gone through or are This includes adopting leading privacy practices that are participating in the Fellowship.
particularly important to new business wins for our digital Our companies offer internships and apprenticeships to and Data Investment Management companies.
bring talented young people into our industry and support In addition, our companies are working with a growing social mobility and youth employment.
This includes many number of clients on  commissions.
internship programs with a focus on diverse candidates, Together, clients that asked about our approach to such as 10-week paid internships for diverse candidates at sustainability or engaged with us on sustainability issues many of our US agencies through the 4As Multicultural were worth at least 1.35 billion in 2014, 12% of revenues Advertising Internship Program and our support for the 2013: 1.26 billion.
UKs Movement to Work initiative.
Sustainability services Reward Examples of our companies successful  We design our compensation packages to secure the best work are included in our annual Sustainability Report and people and we benchmark them against those of other Pro Bono Book.
 communications companies in our markets and sectors.
services are a growing source of revenue for our businesses.
Many of our people participate in performance-related Our companies integrate sustainability expertise into their incentive plans on top of their base pay.
Senior employees client teams: in addition, many have established specialist may participate in share-based compensation plans.
These include: Burson-Marstellers Incentive plans are designed to reward excellent Global Corporate Responsibility Practice: Hill Knowlton performance in the senior employees operational business Strategies CR Sustainability Communications: JWT area or in the share price performance of the Company.
Ethos: OgilvyChange: OgilvyEarth: P&Gs S-Team: and Employees also have access to a range of other benefits, PSB Green.
We also have several companies with specialist including pensions and private health insurance, in social marketing units, such as: Ogilvy Outreach, Ogilvy accordance with local practice.
PRs social marketing practice: JWT Ethos: Thompson Since 1997, we have operated a Worldwide Ownership Social: and TNS Political and Social.
Plan that has granted share awards to more than 139,000 of our people.
In 2014, over 50,000 eligible employees Privacy standards received awards in over 71 countries.
This plan will expire in 2015 and will be replaced by the WPP plc Share Option Customer data plays an increasingly important role in Plan 2015. all types of communications services and is particularly important for digital marketing and insight services, Employee external appointments two priority areas for the Group.
We take action at a Group and operating company level We recognise that our companies executives may be invited to make sure that consumer privacy is protected and that we to become non-executive directors of other companies, engage with consumers, regulators, clients and industry to and that such experience may be beneficial to the Group.
All WPP companies must Consequently, executives are allowed to accept nonimplement the WPP Data Code of Conduct, which provides executive appointments with non-competing companies, a clear framework for implementing privacy best practice as subject to obtaining the approval of the Group finance well as our global IT security, privacy and social media director in the case of senior executives.
We bring our Code and policies to life for employees WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 161 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review through Group-wide ethics training, which features four responsibility to stakeholders, and avoiding misleading work.
We also ran more detailed, Our online training on anti-bribery and corruption covers the bespoke training sessions on specific topics that included Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act on issues social media, consumer privacy and client contracts in 2014. such as hospitality and gifts, facilitation payments and the use In early 2015, we launched the WPP Client Contract of third-party advisors.
Training is updated every 2-3 years Toolkit to help WPP companies understand how privacy and employees are required to repeat the training following and data protection criteria should be integrated into each update.
The training is compulsory for all employees client contracts.
not including associates and over 160,000 employees have In 2014, we used our Data Health Checker to review completed it during 2013 and 2014.
This figure is higher than privacy risks and practices in our businesses for the second our current number of employees not including associates as year running.
Our operating company chief information it includes those who have left the business during recent years.
officers CIOs played a key role this year in the survey and Employees can report any concerns or suspected we received responses from 91% of our businesses.
This cases of misconduct in confidence through our third years survey focused on practices governing the collection, party-managed Right to Speak facility, overseen by storage and use of personal data, including compliance our internal audit department.
The results showed us that 88% of the companies involved Ethical decisions in our work have taken mitigation measures that match or exceed their level of privacy risk.
On average, our companies were found to WPP companies have a review and referral process for have a risk score of 2.7 out of 5 with 5 being the highest level work that may present an ethical risk.
Before accepting of risk, with the average score for mitigation measures at 3.4  work, employees are required to out of 5 with 5 being the highest level of mitigation.
Of those elevate the decision to the most senior person in the relevant companies surveyed, 77% have a dedicated privacy lead and office and then to the most senior executive of the WPP 45% of WPP companies have trained all of their people on company in the country concerned, who will decide if further data privacy in addition to Group training.
referral to a WPP executive is required.
Employees are trained on this referral process during our ethics training.
We have a Group-level committee that meets regularly to discuss cases Efficiency, risk and reputation of concern, potential compliance issues and new risk areas.
We implement high ethical standards, work to reduce our Environment impact on the environment and invest in communities and social causes through our pro bono work and charitable We are working to make WPP a low-carbon and resourcedonations.
We communicate our approach to suppliers and efficient Group, with benefits to the environment, our own expect them to adopt standards consistent with our own.
costs and our credibility as advisors to clients.
Improving This enhances our relationship with our people and our performance enables us to meet the environmental our clients, reduces risks to our business, protects our requirements included in many client tender processes.
reputation and that of our clients, and helps us to By 2020, we aim to reduce carbon emissions to operate more efficiently and reduce costs.
1.8 tonnes of CO e per employee, a 47% reduction from 2 2006.
Our strategy focuses on: Our ethical framework Office energy use: Improving the energy efficiency of our buildings and IT systems.
We estimate that 13% of The WPP Code of Conduct establishes the values and our total floor space is now certified to advanced green ethical standards that all our companies must implement.
building standards, such as LEED and BREEAM.
Senior managers in all our companies and all our business Air travel: Reducing non-essential flights by promoting partners and suppliers are asked to sign a copy of the WPP video conferencing and offsetting carbon emissions, Code of Business Conduct each year to confirm they will equivalent to 100% of emissions from our business air abide by its principles.
travel, by supporting renewable energy generation in Our people are required to complete our ethics training, fast-growing economies.
Our video conferencing network How we behave.
This covers topics such as diversity, privacy, now incorporates more than 700 units in over 160 cities.
WPP 162 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Renewable energy: Around 13% of the total electricity Our footprint per million of revenue was 24 tonnes, we purchase is generated from renewable sources.
We made progress on reducing our carbon footprint Our absolute carbon footprint was also slightly during 2014: down on the previous year at 279,371 tonnes CO e 2 Our footprint per employee was 2.26 tonnes of CO e, 2013: 279,859 tonnes CO e. 2 2 down 4% on 2013 and 33% lower than 2006.
Carbon intensity 2006-2014 Carbon footprint in 2014 Tonnes CO e % 2 Stationary fuel combustion 3% Purchased electricity 49% 4 50 Air travel 35% 40 Other estimated emissions 13% 3 30 2 20 1 10 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Headcount intensity tonnes per employee o Target headcount intensity Revenue intensity tonnes per m revenue o WPPs carbon emissions breakdown tonnes of CO e 2 2014 2013 2012 2011 2006 Scope 1 Fuel used to heat WPP offices 9,747 11,305 9,840 9,714 2,628 Scope 2 Total purchased electricity 155,367 157,471 164,212 152,968 149,728 Scope 3 Air travel and other estimated impacts 133,017 132,382 133,034 137,121 116,825 Total gross excluding carbon reduction of renewable electricity 298,131 301,158 307,086 299,803 269,181 Carbon reduction of purchased renewable electricity 18,760 21,299 23,765 22,572 Total net including carbon reduction of renewable electricity 279,371 279,859 283,321 277,231 269,181 Percentage change from 2006 net 4% 4% 5% 3% WPPs carbon intensity tonnes of CO e 2 2014 2013 2012 2011 2006 Tonnes per employee net 2.26 2.35 2.45 2.44 3.39 Percentage change from 2006 33% 31% 28% 28% Tonnes per m of revenue net 24.23 25.40 27.31 27.66 45.56 Percentage change from 2006 47% 44% 40% 39% Our carbon data covers the year ended 31 December 2014 in line with the Groups financial reporting period.
Data has been prepared in accordance with the World Resource Institute WRI and World Business Council for Sustainable Development WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition the GHG Protocol.
All greenhouse gases emissions figures are in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents CO e. They include three of the six greenhouse gases covered by the 2 Kyoto Protocol carbon dioxide CO, methane CH4 and nitrous oxide N2O.
Perfluorocarbons PFCs, hydrofluorocarbons HFCs and sulphur hexafluoride SF6 2 emissions have been omitted from our reporting as they are not a material source of greenhouse gases for WPP.
Emissions data is included for all operations for which WPP and its subsidiaries have operational control.
When calculating our carbon footprint, we rate purchased renewable electricity as zero emissions.
For full transparency, we also disclose total electricity purchased at grid average carbon intensity.
Our carbon data is reviewed and assured by Bureau Veritas, an independent assurance provider.
Read the full carbon emissions statement 2014 in our Sustainability Report.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 163 Tonnes per employee Tonnes per m revenue How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Measuring our value chain carbon footprint sustainability supply chain platform to gain a better understanding of data security and privacy risks in our We have been managing our direct greenhouse gas data supply chain.
We also strengthened our approach emissions energy use and air travel since 2006.
In 2014, to managing risks in our advertising production supply for the first time, we carried out a detailed analysis of chain, which involves many small companies and where indirect emissions associated with our business activities costs are passed onto clients.
This included working with scope 3 or value chain emissions.
These cover carbon our top advertising production suppliers in the UK and emissions in our value chain including: US.
More details on both initiatives will appear in our Advertisements we place for clients emissions Sustainability Report.
associated with the physical dissemination of advertising by GroupM, our Media Investment Management business, Human rights on behalf of clients through a variety of media channels.
For example, emissions associated with energy used by Human rights are relevant to our business in a number of the servers that host online advertising.
ways, including how we treat our people, how we manage Goods and services we buy emissions associated human rights risks in our supply chain and the potential with the goods and services we buy to create marketing impact of the work we do for clients on human rights.
campaigns for clients and to run our business.
For example, We aim to respect human rights wherever we operate in emissions from energy used during a film shoot.
line with the principles of the UN Universal Declaration Day-to-day activities emissions associated with on Human Rights, the International Labour Organisations running our business.
This includes office energy use and fundamental conventions on core labour standards and business air travel, as well as employee commuting and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
other activities such as waste from our operations.
To explain our approach we will publish a Human Rights Although we do not have operational control over Policy Statement during 2015.
We will also integrate emissions in our value chain, by improving understanding human rights into our ethics training.
Our companies of our footprint we can work with our suppliers and clients create pro bono campaigns for many human rights to help bring about reductions.
See our Pro Bono Book for examples.
Our analysis focused on the UK and showed that across We comply with all relevant sanctions regimes.
our value chain, ads we place for clients accounts for the most significant portion of our carbon footprint.
Social investment More detail is available in our Sustainability Report.
We provide creative services to many charities, NGOs and Supply chain voluntary groups on a pro bono basis for little or no fee.
These campaigns facilitate the work of charities and We are strengthening our approach to identifying and provide exciting creative opportunities for our people.
managing social and environmental risks in our supply Our companies negotiate free media space on behalf of chain, to reflect increased client interest in this area.
charities and also support their work through donations Improving oversight and understanding of our supply and volunteering.
base also opens up opportunities to consolidate our In 2014, our social investment was worth 21.8 million procurement and reduce costs.
This is equivalent to 1.5% of We evaluate all potential new suppliers against a set reported profit before tax.
It includes cash donations to of business requirements that include assurance of supply, charities of 4.8 million and 17 million worth of pro bono quality, service, cost, innovation and sustainability.
Once work based on fees the organisations would have paid selected, business partners and suppliers are asked to sign for our work.
In addition, WPP media agencies negotiated a copy of the WPP Code of Business Conduct to confirm free media space worth 25.1 million on behalf of pro they will abide by its principles.
bono clients 2013: 19.8 million, making the total social We take further measures in areas of our supply contribution 46.9 million 2013: 39.4 million.
chain where breaches of our Code could have a potentially significant impact on WPPs reputation or that of our clients.
In 2014, we ran a pilot project using Sedex the WPP 164 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Total social contribution Materiality and stakeholder engagement m 46.9 50 We engage with our stakeholders including clients, 45 39.4 Free media space investors and our people to communicate our approach, o 40 34.6 35 30.5 Charitable donations o 27.7 exchange ideas and to identify improvements to the way 30 Pro bono o 25 we manage sustainability issues.
20 15 In 2014, this included a formal materiality assessment, 10 5 through which we sought feedback on our approach and 46.9m 0 priorities from investors, clients and sustainability experts 10 11 12 13 14 as well as WPP senior management.
The results have been communicated to the WPP Board and used to prioritise the Sustainability management issues we cover in our reporting and to help us identify areas for further action.
More information is available in Paul Richardson, WPPs Group finance director, is the our Sustainability Report.
Board director responsible for corporate sustainability.
We engaged with a number of investors, rating agencies Reflecting our decentralised structure, the practical work and benchmarking organisations on sustainability during of implementation is devolved to WPP companies around 2014.
These included BNP Paribas, EIRIS, FTSE4Good, the world, with strategic direction and policy principles MSCI, Oekom, RobecoSAM, Sustainalytics, Trucost, notably the WPP Code of Conduct and Group Vigeo.
To raise investor awareness of our activities, we Sustainability Policy set at Group level.
submit this section of our Annual Report for share owner Our Sustainability Committee, chaired by Paul voting at our AGM.
Richardson, is made up of senior representatives from We are included in the DJSI World and Europe Indices Group functions.
The committee meets annually to review and the FTSE4Good Index.
We participate in the Carbon progress on a variety of sustainability issues.
Our central Disclosure Project CDP and received a score of 98B in sustainability function develops strategy and coordinates 2014.
We are listed in the CDP FTSE 350 Climate data collection.
It communicates on sustainability matters Disclosure Leadership Index.
on behalf of the Group and works with Group functions such as our talent team, legal, real estate, IT and Data and reporting procurement.
The head of sustainability reports directly to the Group finance director.
WPP companies report their sustainability data to the parent company quarterly through our Group financial Risk and opportunity reporting system.
Data in this section covers the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014.
We will publish Sustainability risks including social, environmental our 13th social and environmental performance report and ethical risks are integrated into the Groups risk Sustainability Report in June 2015, with selected identification, management and monitoring processes.
environmental and employment data externally assured This includes: by Bureau Veritas, in line with best practice.
Annual assessment of sustainability risks and performance presented to the Board.
Brand Check a review of WPP business operations and risk profiles presented by the Group chief executive at Board meetings.
Selected internal audits which may cover sustainability risks.
Due diligence during acquisitions a review of risks Read more relating to bribery and corruption or ethical issues WPPs 2014 2015 Sustainability Report and a showcase associated with client work.
We have a process to make of outstanding pro bono work created by our companies sure that acquired businesses embed our policies and will be published in June 2015. undertake our ethics training.
com sustainability WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 165
