54 Strategic Report Corporate Sustainability Review Atkins is shaping a sustainable future for all.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 55 Corporate Sustainability Review continued More information is available in our digital Sustainability Report at: www.
com en-GB   Atkins continues to provide societal Raising safety and welfare standards Supporting our people on value, helping to shape a sustainable a development pathway The launch of the Atkins minimum future for all.
This year we have launched requirements AMRs for construction Our sustainability knowledge and skills a set of principles, based on societal, principle commits us to supporting our safety in the Middle East provides a environmental and business-focused framework which enables us to influence people on a development pathway, pillars to frame our approach to equipping them to deliver innovative and clients and contractors to raise health, sustainability for the future.
We have safety and welfare standards, and to sustainable solutions.
We have held an restructured our Corporate Sustainability Atkins Urban Environment Conference, demonstrate our strong industry Review around our principles, to articulate leadership.
Industry experts rewarded enabling specialists from our planning Atkins true value, and have launched an us for our behavioural safety model with teams around the world to share engagement programme as a means of a Health and Safety Initiative of the knowledge, promote technical excellence forming an inclusive view of sustainability Year award at Qatars annual industry and champion best practice, and have and how we intend to develop it within event.
The model embeds safety into promoted knowledge-sharing activities our business.
organisational culture and empowers by sponsoring a UK Construction Industry our people to put safety at the heart Council and Royal Institute of British Our principles have been woven into of everything they do.
Architects event, integrating health our office sustainability programme, and safety learning into undergraduate RACE2.
Over a three-year period, our A society for our future architect training.
We also hosted a initial programme, RACE, helped to webinar to showcase a project that Inspiring the next generation reduce our electricity usage by 12%.
Inspiring the next generation of engineers evaluated the energy performance, RACE2 has broader aims, encompassing water usage and biodiversity of a clients to build a sustainable future will be critical environmental and social issues, and to our success and to that of society.
most sustainable building and made challenging us to live and breathe our recommendations to generate a 30% principles in our offices.
This year we have used innovative energy reduction and improved end user experience.
approaches, such as cycling and model Leadership city building workshops, to engage the Social and community investment We are steadfast in our drive towards next generation.
becoming a more responsible and To enable our people to utilise their skills and expertise to support the social, sustainable organisation.
environmental and economic health of our communities, we have formalised Our Group chief executive officer, Prof Dr Uwe Krueger, has been unceasing a volunteer programme in the UK.
In America, the Atkins Foundation, in his pursuit of safety in the workplace, spearheading our See it, Stop it, Save established in 2006, serves the communities in which our people live a life campaign which empowers our people to stop work immediately and work, supporting programmes that improve quality of life and educate whenever anything appears unsafe.
Senior leaders across Atkins demonstrate children in the areas of engineering, mathematics, science and technology.
their commitment to safety by engaging our people during safety tours and using safety moments during meetings to focus on key safety issues.
They also engage Atkins staff in sustainability, encouraging its integration into our day to day practices.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 56 Strategic Report Corporate Sustainability Review continued A healthy, safe and secure workplace Accident incident rate AIR Staff We aim to promote and achieve the 2,000 highest degree of physical, mental and 1,800 social wellbeing in our workplace.
1,600 1,400 Journey to natural safety 1,200 Three years ago, we introduced a safety 1,000 maturity model, plotting a journey from 800 unaware through compliance to 600 proactive, and ultimately to the 400 integration of safety as a natural aspect 200 of our culture.
This year, all our regions 0 and businesses reached the compliance 09-10 10-11 11-12 12-13 13-14 level, with a significant number moving Office actual Engineering actual Construction actual towards proactive.
Office benchmark Engineering benchmark Construction benchmark Safety performance Accident incident rate AIR Contractors The accident incident rate AIR measures accident performance.
Our overall AIR 1,600 figure for staff summarises AIRs for our 1,400 people and contractors working in offices, 1,200 engineering and construction.
We set 1,000 a more stretching AIR benchmark than suggested by the UKs Health and Safety 800 Executive HSE Labour Force Survey data.
600 The figures for our people in office and 400 engineering roles have outperformed the benchmark, with the figures for 200 construction roles being slightly over 0 our benchmark but still below the 09-10 10-11 11-12 12-13 13-14 HSE Labour Force Survey indicator.
Office actual Engineering actual Construction actual Contractor performance for engineering Office benchmark Engineering benchmark Construction benchmark and construction has not met our internal benchmark due to its over-sensitivity Safe and Secure by Choice Industry leadership to low contractor numbers.
We have heightened our focus on As part of our Group wide approach to security, developing a service that provides industry safety leadership, we have been Viewpoint survey tailored medical, security and travel involved in restructuring the Consultants In 2013 we incorporated safety questions assistance to address risks associated with Health and Safety Forum, ensuring that into our employee satisfaction survey, international travel.
We have expanded it remains fit for the future.
84% of respondents believe our behavioural safety programme to leadership team will oversee United that Atkins is committed to the health and include security.
This Safe and Secure Kingdom and Europe and Asia Pacific safety of its staff and 96% understand by Choice programme will soon include safety forums, with new teams focused on how to work safely.
We have developed a set of security principles relating to environment and quality.
We will continue a manager safety leadership programme people, property and information.
to support the Middle East and North to ensure the continued improvement Africa safety executive and strive towards of communication, feedback and safety the establishment of a consultants forum practices, which will be embedded in North America.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 57 Corporate Sustainability Review continued More information is available in our digital Sustainability Report at: www.
com en-GB   Table 1: Total emissions by source, region and scope in tonnes of CO for the An environment with a future 2 year ended 31 March 2014 A low carbon economy We have continued our efforts to become Regional Region Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total a low carbon organisation.
Liquid 1 2 Source Gas Fuels Refrigerants Road Electricity Heat Rail Air Measuring and reporting emissions UK 2,465 51 10,032 7,951 1,177 6,313 27,989 to stakeholders and investors We continue to report and verify our Europe 22 340 804 97 70 267 1,600 emissions data.
Asia Pacific 16 97 2,072 2,168 4,353 Middle 623 1,931 2,136 4,690 Atkins has disclosed carbon data to the East Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, the North 2 8,471 11,293 1,642 21,408 global platform for organisational America disclosure of investor-relevant climate Source 2,487 18 51 19,563 24,051 97 1,247 12,526 60,040 change data, for the last five years.
Our Totals highest CDP score to date, 84 out of 100, Total 22,119 Total 24,148 Total 13,773 was achieved this year.
Expressing the emissions using employees as a ratio gives us a figure of 3.4 tonnes For the fourth consecutive year, the Group CO e per employee.
This is a reduction on the ratio for the year ended 31 March 2013 2 achieved certification to the ISO 14064 of 3.5 tonnes CO e per employee.
2 international standard for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas Reducing our emissions Transition to a low carbon economy emissions.
This year, we have expanded Our first office sustainability programme, Atkins has joined an industry and UK the scope of the verification programme RACE, helped reduce our worldwide Government initiative, The Infrastructure to include North America.
We report on energy consumption.
Its successor, Carbon Review, which aims to utilise new gas, electricity, liquid fuel consumption RACE2, retains this focus on energy technologies, construction techniques and and travel emissions.
Table 1 shows total efficiency, aiming to facilitate cost and low-carbon materials to reduce carbon emissions by region split between scopes carbon pollution reductions.
emissions from infrastructure projects by one, two and three, as defined by the 24m tonnes by 2050.
Progressing Completed Society: Progress against our priorities 2012 13 priorities Status Overview of our performance Develop a more strategic approach to promoting science, STEM hubs established around the UK as part of technology, engineering and mathematics STEM to a broader programme of improved coordination young people to increase the impact of our activities Agree a volunteering framework in the UK Volunteer programme commitment in the UK to further encourage our peoples support for charities Evaluate progress towards natural safety Assessment indicates progress, with all regions reaching compliance and some approaching proactive Promote vibrant behavioural safety culture Improvement in safety accident statistics and positive feedback from Viewpoint survey suggest progress 2014 15 priorities Commence Safe and Secure by Choice programme Introduce online Atkins Operating Safely AOS system to improve safety risk identification and control Help establish executive consultants safety forum in North America Carry out programme of behavioural safety and security training for line managers WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 58 Strategic Report Corporate Sustainability Review continued More information is available in our digital Sustainability Report at: www.
com en-GB  The UK Foreign and Commonwealth ITER is a first-of-a-kind nuclear reactor, Protecting and improving ecosystems Office commissioned us to work with capable of producing unlimited supplies Construction projects provide national government agencies and city of cheap, clean, safe and sustainable opportunities for sustainable delivery, governments to develop guidance for electricity from atomic fusion.
Atkins is enhancing societal value and impact.
eco-low carbon urban planning in China.
the architect-engineer responsible for the We have advised clients on biodiversity design, procurement management and on a number of key projects.
Affordable, reliable and clean energy construction management of buildings, Our efforts to help societys transition site infrastructure and services.
In designing Dubai Creek Harbour, to a low carbon economy have taken we persuaded the client of the benefits a number of forms.
These include Respect for the environment of incorporating a bird sanctuary adjacent supporting projects for our clients which Managing resources to the development, influencing the aim to harness low carbon energy sources, Our office sustainability programme, building of an education centre and some examples of which are given below.
RACE2, encompasses such environmental interconnecting walkways.
issues as efficient use of materials, control We are helping to design, build and of water, waste and recycling.
Our In Irelands Tolka Valley Greenway project deliver the worlds first tidal lagoon in operations in Hong Kong received the we restored nearly 20 hectares of Swansea Bay, generating electricity Class of Excellence from the Hong Kong parklands, preserving a variety of native equivalent to Swanseas entire domestic Awards for Environmental Excellence, its habitats, and provided advice on consumption and saving over 200,000 highest recognition for waste reduction.
sustainable river management, allowing tonnes of CO annually for its design life flooding whilst controlling water quality.
Building the resource resilience of our clients We have won a contract to lead a Our thought leadership report, Future pan-European consortium bringing Proofing the UK Water Sector, focuses sustainable energy to 23 countries in on the asset-heavy water and wastewater eastern and southern Africa, and another, sectors in which todays decisions have with a consortium partner, covering far reaching consequences.
Working with a further 26 countries in western and Decision Strategies International, we central Africa.
explored a number of scenarios for the development of the UKs water industry up until 2050.
Progressing Completed Environment: Progress against our priorities 2012 13 priorities Status Overview of our performance Communicate guiding sustainability principles Sustainability principles finalised and in use within to our people global engagement programme Launch office sustainability programme RACE2 developed and launched in the UK and Europe, with remaining regions to follow in 2014 Improve monitoring of carbon emissions in North America carbon emission data included in North America ISO 14064 verification Evaluate carbon in supply chain Partnering with our supply chain policy, incorporating sustainability, published.
Further work to understand supply chain carbon footprint planned 2014 15 priorities Undertake global environmental assessment to prioritise risks and opportunities Develop environmental training and competency package in the UK and global training course Group wide deployment of RACE2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 59 Corporate Sustainability Review continued More information is available in our digital Sustainability Report at: www.
com en-GB   Strong governance and accountability In addition, our Energy business in A responsible business Respect for human rights is critical to us Australia has employed local people to of the future and we seek to have a positive influence deliver a project in China, sharing good Technical excellence wherever we operate.
In the Middle East practice and equipping workers with skills We continue to plan, design and enable the AMRs enable us to influence clients to help them earn their living long after sustainable value and technical excellence and contractors to raise standards of the projects completion.
for our clients, utilising management health, safety and welfare during standards to develop more collaborative construction projects.
Clients also request Strategic engagement for innovation client relationships.
By way of example, our support in this area.
For instance, One of our sustainability principles our UK rail business obtained formal Qatars Public Works Authority requested advocates collaboration with key BS1100 business standard accreditation.
our review of labour camp welfare organisations to develop innovative To underpin our delivery of high-quality conditions, which resulted in operational solutions that meet the complex projects, we are improving management improvements and a standard design for sustainability challenges faced by society.
and coordination of Building Information labour camps.
In China we put this into practice at the Modelling BIM activities and Beijing UK-China business summit accompanying computer-aided design Our Group policies, along with our attended by UK Prime Minister David standards.
New Civil Engineer magazines sustainability principles, determine our Cameron and Minister for UK Trade prestigious Consultant of the Year Award approach to demonstrating responsibility, and Investment Lord Livingston.
Another confirmed our outstanding performance.
transparency and fairness and outline example of this principle in action is where our commitment to the provision of our UK water and environment business Economic and environmental equal opportunities and a safe and has introduced innovation hubs, to find resilience secure workplace.
new ways of solving complex challenges We support governments, investors and and showcasing new approaches.
other authorities in achieving economic We communicate our support for human and environmental resilience through rights to stakeholders, including infrastructure and technological employees, clients and shareholders, investment.
Atkins is participating in through a variety of channels, including the Qatar Governments transport this report and the living embodiment infrastructure programme, part of Qatars of our values in our culture.
National Vision 2030, which aims to transform Qatars society by 2030, so International business, local service that it is capable of sustaining its own We recognise the importance of development and providing a high Progressing Completed sustaining local economies by employing standard of living for its people.
local expertise and selecting and developing local suppliers.
By way of example, multidisciplinary design work for the Doha Metro system included the use of local building materials.
This supported the regional economy and reduced the environmental impact of the project in compliance with the Global Sustainability Assessment System adapted for Qatar.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Uwe Krueger Chief Executive Officer 11 June 2014 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
