Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 52 Sustainability Delivering a sustainable business We are especially conscious of the fact that our people are Our priority is to ensure that Babcock key to our success.
Initiatives in areas such as our graduate continues to be a strong, successful and recruitment scheme and apprentice programmes as well as sustainable business that will create longtalent development and management training are critically important for the long-term future success of the Company.
term value for our shareholders and in We have demonstrated our support and commitment in this so doing we recognise there are other area by joining the 5% Club during the year, which involves our stakeholders to consider our employees, committing to having 5% of our workforce on structured training schemes within the next five years.
These initiatives, along with our customers, our suppliers and the our continuing commitment to promote a highly skilled, diverse communities in which we operate.
workforce, should help ensure that we are well placed to meet our immediate and long-term commitments.
We believe that we will only be able to do this if we have regard to the long-term Our commitment to ethical and responsible business practices being observed throughout the Group is fundamental.
Our sustainability of what we do and by Group-wide Code of Business Conduct, set out in section 1 of behaving in a safe and responsible way this report, is supplemented by detailed guidance and training, and upholding the highest standards of and underpins everything we do as a business.
It is my belief that not only is this the right approach in and of itself for a business ethics in all we do.
responsible business it also makes good business sense, and As a leading engineering support services company with an helps foster our long-term financial growth by sustaining our increasingly international footprint we recognise that our reputation and encouraging longer-term thinking looking business operates within the context of wider society and the beyond short-term financial returns.
We work hard to sustain the long-term future of In this Sustainability report we highlight certain areas that we our business whilst at the same time having a positive effect consider key to our being a responsible and ethical business for individuals and local economies, for example, by way of as well as to assist us in reducing risks, and thus sustaining employment, apprenticeships, training and career development our operations.
opportunities, and make great efforts to try to avoid or minimise, so far as we can, any potentially negative impact of our operations on the environment or the health and safety of employees or others.
How we do this is discussed further within this Sustainability report as well as in the sustainability section of each of our divisional unit operating reviews.
Peter Rogers CBE Chief Executive Environmental quality Number of graduates 51% 2013: 58% 442 2013: 251 Description Description Percentage, by revenue, of the Groups operations with Number of graduates currently on a graduate programme across environmental management systems ISO 14001 certi ed.
See page 63 for more information.
See page 60 for more information.
Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 How we address sustainability Conduct our business in Act responsibly and a way that is mindful of ethically at all times in 1. environmental impacts line with the Group Code Ethics and of Conduct Monitor with the aim of governance reducing where possible Provide the opportunity our global carbon footprint for employees to and our greenhouse gas con dentially and emissions levels anonymously report areas of concern to Encourage environmentally senior management 5.
2. friendly practices on sites for investigation.
Managing Our customers for more details see pages 5455 for more details see pages 6263 environmental and supplier impact relationships Building long-term relationships through using eight key elements Delivering business- 4. critical support using Planning for growth 3.
Developing high performing, and succession Ensuring ethical suppliers and sustaining Focus on recruitment, safety Supporting local economies retention and talent by using diverse, locally development of talent procured services.
Encouraging young people for more details see pages 5657 into the engineering sector through leading Committed to a Group-wide Home Safe apprenticeship and Every Day safety initiative graduate programmes Open, honest and challenging dialogue Ensuring recruitment at all between employees and management levels is undertaken in a to ensure continual improvement in best for the job approach safety culture throughout the Group.
with a mind to ensuring for more details see pages 5859 a diverse workforce with a zero tolerance policy on discrimination.
for more details see pages 5961 Senior management retention Number of apprentices 95% 2013: 96% 594 2013: 551 Description Description Percentage of senior managers at the beginning of the financial Number of employees currently on apprenticeships across year still employed by the Group at the end of the year.
See page 59 for more information.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 54 Sustainability continued 1.
Ethics and governance risks we have set out a policy on how we should all conduct Code of Business Conduct business in the form of the Babcock Code of Business Conduct.
Babcock aims at all times to act responsibly and ethically when Compliance with this policy is compulsory for employees, pursuing and awarding business.
We understand that our business advisers and business partners or, in the case of reputation and good name are amongst our greatest assets, business advisers and partners they must have equivalent which could easily be lost by actual or suspected corrupt or standards and procedures in their own businesses.
To protect the Company and reduce these The Babcock Code of Business Conduct is a Group-wide policy that sets out the following principles to ensure that those who work with or within the Company do so to the highest of ethical standards: As a company Babcock And our employees Will respect the dignity and rights of its employees and place Will avoid or properly disclose and obtain clearance for the highest priority on ensuring the safety of each other at potential con icts between their interests or those of their work and the safety of others who might be affected by friends and families and their responsibilities to Babcock or our activities our customers Will seek to minimise so far as it reasonably can its impact Will not take bribes and will report to appropriate on the environment management any attempt made to bribe or improperly in uence them or another employee in the carrying out Will comply with the law in the conduct of its business of their duties for Babcock Will be honest in our dealings with those with whom we do Will not bribe or attempt to bribe anyone including by or seek to do business making facilitation payments and will report to appropriate Will strive to avoid even the appearance of wrongdoing or management any request or suggestion that Babcock, or impropriety in the way we go about our business anybody working for or with Babcock, should bribe or attempt to improperly in uence someone Will not bribe or attempt to bribe anyone Will seek advice on how to proceed if they are at all unsure Will be diligent in selecting our business advisers and whether something complies with our Code of Business partners so that we minimise the risk of our reputation Conduct or how to apply its associated guidance being damaged by others Will be able to raise con dentially if they wish, without fear Will implement and observe appropriate training and of unfavourable consequences for themselves, any genuine procedures designed to ensure that we and others working concerns they have that our Code or its associated Guidance for us understand what our Code of Business Conduct means is not being followed.
for them in practice Will treat seriously breaches of our code or its associated guidance.
Babcock Code of Business Conduct And our business advisers And our business partners Must agree to comply, and actually comply, with our Code Should either be willing to subscribe to our Code and its and this guidance, so far as it is relevant to them, as if they associated guidance or have equivalent standards and were our employees.
procedures in their own businesses.
Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 The Babcock Code of Business Conduct is supplemented by messages received to central Group senior management.
Callers a detailed manual available on the Groups intranet that can remain anonymous if they wish.
The hotlines are intended contains guidelines, authorisation and other procedures aimed for use by employees to report concerns that they feel unable at identifying and reducing corruption and ethical risks.
For to raise with line management or if they have raised matters, example: an explanation of the law and how it can apply: Red but are not satis ed with the response regarding financial Flags to look out for: guidelines and authorisation procedures irregularities, non-compliance with laws, or breaches of our for giving or accepting gifts and hospitality or making charitable Code of Business Conduct, threats to health and safety, con icts or political donations: due diligence and approval requirements of interest or improper practices.
New employees are made before engaging new business partners: and how to whistleblow aware of the existence of the hotlines as part of their induction: concerns.
This manual can also be accessed online on the details of the hotlines are advertised at operating sites.
com All whistleblowing incidents are reviewed and a method of about-us responsibilities ethical-compliance.
investigation con rmed, which can be by a senior manager not Employees take online training courses in anti-bribery and directly related to the incident, an external agency or by internal corruption risks.
Each Division and Group function is required audit.
In all cases this review is followed up by a report to Group to have a designated member of its senior management team senior management.
Where possible, the caller reporting the with speci c responsibility for ensuring the distribution, incident will be noti ed of the outcome of the investigation.
communication and implementation of the anti-bribery and A report on all whistleblowing calls throughout the Group, corruption guidance, and for overseeing training.
Divisions the investigations undertaken as a result of these calls, the and Group functions are also required to consider carefully conclusions drawn and the recommendations and actions whether they need also to designate business unit level or site resulting is given to each meeting of the Audit and Risk speci c managers with the same responsibility.
and corruption risks have expressly to be considered each The total number of whistleblowing reports in the year to year in business unit risk reviews as an integral part of our 31 March 2014 was 39.
During the same period to 31 March risk management arrangements.
Internal audit carries out a 2013 the number was 40.
Details of the number of cases by review of the implementation of the Guidance as part of the division and by category are set out below.
Divisional monthly reports contain information on anti-bribery and corruption compliance, copies Whistleblowing cases by division 2013 14 of which go to each Board meeting.
Human rights As an international business we recognise our responsibility for upholding and protecting the human rights of our employees 1.
Defence and Security 6 4 1 and other individuals with whom we deal in our operations 2.
Support Services 13 across the world.
We welcome the opportunity we have to 3.
Marine and Technology 15 contribute positively to global efforts to ensure that human 4. International 5 rights are understood and observed.
39 Total We believe that a culture of respect for, and promotion of, 2 human rights is embedded throughout our business and can be 3 demonstrated by our commitment to ethical conduct pages 54-55, our customer and supplier relationships pages 56-57, the importance we place on health and safety pages 58-59, the commitment we have towards the people who work for Whistleblowing cases by category 2013 14 and with Babcock both now and in the future pages 59-61, and our respect towards the wider society and environment in which we work pages 62-63, as we set out throughout this Sustainability report.
Fraud Theft Dishonesty 9 Babcock insists on responsible, transparent and accountable 3.
Employment Issues 16 business practices in accordance with our Code of Business 4.
Con dential employee whistleblower hotlines are 5.
Health & Safety 2 available Group-wide to relay any employee concerns that these 2 39 standards are not being adhered to for investigation.
The service Total is provided by an independent third party who promptly reports 3 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 56 Sustainability continued Our approach to procurement 2.
Our customer and supplier Our customers rely upon Babcock to deliver critical support to their operations.
We need trusted and effective suppliers to relationships support us in delivering reliable service to our customers and in seeking to reduce the cost of doing so.
We buy a wide range of Our customers goods and services and need reliable, high-performing suppliers As we have described throughout the Strategic report, we serve across all aspects of our supply chain.
Babcock seeks to ensure a wide range of customers in many business areas offering that our customers money is spent ef ciently and responsibly, complex solutions under contracts which typically run over a and that our supply contracts are managed effectively.
Given the long-term nature of these contracts, to ensure that the supply chain adheres to our standards of and the pro les of our major customers, Babcock favours a ethical behaviour, environmental, health and safety and other partnering or collaborative approach and looks to build strong, working practices.
long-term customer relationships: this is at the heart of our Babcock helps sustain its supply chain through an annual business philosophy.
By this collaborative approach we aim to expenditure in excess of 1.3 billion with a supplier base of develop an in-depth understanding of our customers, what they more than 10,000 companies.
We have substantive trading value, what matters most to them, their present and future relationships with over 350 companies.
Our businesses have needs and objectives, and how and why they make their dedicated, local procurement and supply management procurement decisions, so that we can offer and best deliver functions.
These teams are integrated into local operations what they are truly looking for and can anticipate and plan for but adopt common high standards, sharing best practices and their future requirements.
supplier insights across the Group.
Common expenditure across So how do we seek to establish these strong customer the Company is increasingly being managed and governed using relationships?
Babcock believes that the most enduring relationships are built Our approach to procurement and supply is to: around eight key elements: Select and manage suppliers to support our customer service Shared goals and objectives delivery ethos and to reduce costs Mutual trust Focus our effort on a supply base of longer-term, strategic suppliers who work with us to strengthen further our Being open and honest in all dealings proposals and delivery to our customers Identifying and understanding mutual interests Employ procurement and supply specialists with the expertise Seeking strong inter-personal relationships to procure and deliver effective supply, working together with the technical, engineering and operational customer teams Taking the long-term view and looking ahead Enter into supply contracts that fairly re ect the risks and Meeting, and wherever possible exceeding, expected rewards with our suppliers outcomes Work with suppliers with a shared commitment to all those Offering what we believe to be cost effective, technically working on, or visiting, Babcock operations being able to sound solutions.
return Home Safe Every Day We understand that one of the critical elements in building a Use category management as the key approach to developing strong business relationship is that both parties understand and supply strategy, selecting suppliers and managing their are aware of how the other fide fines success in a way that is performance.
We select suppliers based on their capability to both identi able and measurable.
Since this cannot be left to support us, and our customers, and have a diverse supply base chance, we commission regular reviews of the workings of our as a consequence.
business partnering arrangements to assess if they are working well and also to look for the tell-tale signs of where they might encounter problems.
Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 Health and safety in the supply chain Payment Babcock is committed to creating a safe working environment We want to spend time talking to our suppliers about new ideas, which enables all those working on, or visiting, Babcock operational performance and total cost opportunities not operations to be able to return Home Safe Every Day.
We understand the importance of predictable to work only with suppliers who we believe are able to both customer payments when running a business.
That is why meet and promote our standards those that share our Babcock is a signatory in the UK to the Prompt Payment Code commitment to safe behaviours and performance in delivering and we would encourage others in our supply chain to be also.
services and solutions for our customers.
Our teams aim to work Our suppliers have critical responsibilities for getting paid on with suppliers on safety and share continuous improvement time by delivering on time and in full, following the required practices to reduce or prevent accidents and injuries.
billing processes and adhering to our standards for invoicing.
Supply chain security Supplier development Protecting the information and physical assets of our customers We work in close collaboration with selected suppliers big is an increasingly important part of what we do.
Supplier development activities target improvements expect high standards of commercial con dentiality.
For certain that will bene t our operations and the capability of the supplier types of supply we have and are developing exacting standards ultimately driving performance standards that bene t our of security compliance.
For these companies we need to know customers.
Joint teams from Babcock and the selected suppliers that information is well managed and protected throughout the engage together on a wide range of issues such as input costs, supply chain.
delivery performance, safety, product reliability and joint growth opportunities.
Targeted supply relationships use data dashboards Diversity of suppliers to monitor performance and progress.
Babcock is actively Supplier credibility, responsibility, quality and service involved with our suppliers in the Aerospace, Defence and performance are what matter most.
Many of our suppliers are Security Supply Chain development programme SC21.
small and medium sized enterprises.
We select and manage suppliers to support our own experienced workforce in delivering complex, critical and often bespoke engineering services.
Diversi cation of supply where possible should make our supply chain more robust in helping us to deliver for our customers.
The varied nature of what we do means that we depend on a wide range of talents and abilities from a wide range of suppliers.
Ethical working and values We expect high standards of conduct from our suppliers in what they do for us or our customers and will not accept any behaviour contrary to our codes, including bribery, corruption and fraud, threats to health and safety, con icts of interest and other improper practices.
We pre-qualify suppliers for certain types of supply before admitting them to the supply chain, and this involves satisfying ourselves that they can meet our standards.
Certain suppliers will be selected for audit and close monitoring based on risk assessment or supplier performance.
Planned reviews of supply chain risk are undertaken by our businesses.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 58 Sustainability continued To give you time to be safe 3.
Ensuring safety Good safety takes good planning.
It is essential that any Following the successful implementation of our Home Safe job we do has been planned: where appropriate a suitable Every Day health and safety initiative last year, incorporating health and safety plan is in place, and for all tasks a risk the Safety Lens programme, we have further clari ed our assessment is in place to ensure hazards are understood expectations by way of a Behaviours and Expectations policy.
This outlines the commitment of Babcock to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of our employees whilst at work.
It We will: sets the standard for the behaviours and expectations required Ensure, when starting work, the hazards are understood, of all of our employees, management and contractors the required controls are in place, the work has been undertaking business on our behalf.
authorised and the required permission to start obtained The following excerpts from the policy provide detail on the If using generic risk assessment, ensure that it adequately To give you time to be safe and Look after each other and re ects the hazards associated with the speci c tasks let others look after you segments of the Safety Lens.
Ensure that a pre-job safety brief has been undertaken Ensure work is properly supervised and adequately controlled SAFETY A CLEAR VIEW Regularly monitor the work in progress.
We will not: Deviate from method statements or instructions without formal review and authorisation Defeat interlocks, safety devices, trip circuits or other protective equipment without formal assessment and authorisation.
Look after each other and let others look after you It is our goal to ensure that we cause no harm to persons whilst at work and we can achieve this through maintaining high safety and welfare standards.
We will: Look out for our own safety and the safety of our colleagues Do our job in a safe manner so as to reduce the risk of injury and inform our Supervisor if we have an existing medical condition that could be aggravated by our work If injured at work, stop work, seek medical assistance and report it in a timely way.
We will not: Carry on working in an unsafe environment where there is a risk of injury or a hazard to our health Hide the fact that we have an injury and carry on working regardless.
Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 Performance We have seen a 5% reduction in total injuries per 100,000 hours 4.
Developing and sustaining talent worked over the last year whilst our RIDDOR Reporting of Our business arrangements with our customers require us Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 to deliver services across an array of projects and assets.
rate has maintained at 0.17 per 100,000 hours worked.
Our people need to have a range of experience, skills and Our focus in the coming year is to continue to embed the competencies: engineering, management, technical, behaviours noted in our Safety Lens ensuring our employees commercial, administrative and developmental, to name but make it home safe every day.
We recognise that it is the skills and commitment of our employees that fide ne our uniqueness and our ability to Total injury rates per 100,000 hours worked deliver services to our customers.
Marine and Technology 36% RIDDOR rate per 100,000 hours worked 35% 3.
To underpin and sustain our long-term strategic growth Total number Babcock must ensure that it has the right people to be able of injuries 2,530 1,962 1,974 2,010 1,979 and trusted to deliver to customers on technically complex, Fatalities 2 0 0 0 0 long-term contracts, both today and in the future.
We aim to Major Injuries 28 22 30 30 36 achieve this by continually improving our talent management Over-three-day arrangements.
Our Group Director of Organisation and injuries 164 131 123 102 98 Development coordinates this activity across the Group.
RIDDOR totals 194 153 153 132 134 Succession planning is a key focus at Board level and throughout the businesses.
We have plans in place that identify immediate and or future potential successors to key senior management posts.
We also have individual training and development plans for those so identi ed.
Over 80% of executive positions have identi ed replacements.
For the year ending 31 March 2014 Babcock had a 95% senior management retention rate.
In addition to the training and development provided at divisional and business unit level we have Group-wide management development resources: Last year we launched the Babcock MBA which offers a world class MBA programme to 25 high potential employees each year.
The first cohort is part way through their first year, with the second cohort starting their MBA early next year.
The Babcock Academy, run in conjunction with Strathclyde University since 2005, continues to provide a structured framework for our managers to improve their managerial skills and strategic awareness.
We have completed a full review and refresh of the Academy which continues to be a market leading programme.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 60 Sustainability continued We continue to enhance our Emerging Leaders Development Programme.
In addition to holding Emerging Leaders The Babcock MBA programme workshops, we have developed an Emerging Leaders framework which ensures that key divisional managers are As one of 25 Babcock managers from across the Group able to identify high potential candidates and provide them embarking on its inaugural MBA programme, Ted Shaw felt with the development they need and so retain their skills a little trepidation as he arrived at Strathclyde University last within the Group.
Each Division has identi ed talent pools September for the first day of class.
Having been away from and reviews their development on a quarterly basis.
academia for over 20 years, he recalls, I was concerned about whether I could hack it.
The Babcock MBA programme As he soon discovered: The level of commitment from the The Babcock MBA is the latest development from the Company is clear, and the programme developed jointly longstanding partnership with triple accredited Strathclyde by Strathclyde and Babcock is well designed to suit a busy Business School.
The programme launched in 2013 with a professionals lifestyle, with most of the emphasis on home first cohort of 25 delegates selected from Babcocks senior study.
Its a challenge but a life-changing one.
The key objectives of this customised programme are to enable participants to broaden and deepen their toolset of business skills, and enhance their knowledge of leading management theory and practice while further improving collaboration across the Group.
The Babcock MBA is directed by a Steering Group comprising Strathclydes Executive Education specialists and members of Babcocks senior team.
The Steering Group is responsible for design, delivery and ongoing developments ensuring alignment with the Babcock strategy in the context of the latest developments in management thinking.
Graduates and apprentices Managers from the Marine and Technology division Our graduate and apprenticeship schemes are intended to support business requirements with the aim of securing the skills and expertise we need now and in the future, and we seek to provide as many opportunities as those requirements justify.
Technical Engineering With regard to graduates, we reported last year that we were Apprenticeships expecting to recruit 126 graduates for the 2013 14 intake.
In the event, business requirements were such that we needed Recently awarded Technical Apprentice of the Year, Jessica to recruit an additional 43 graduates, bringing the total for Duffy is described by her team members as having an avid 2013 14 to 169 2012 13: 142. desire to learn.
There are currently 442 graduates on the graduate programme, Its a journey that started in September 2012 when she embarked 79% of whom are in engineering disciplines and 21% in business on a four-year Technical Engineering Apprentice Scheme at support roles.
At the date of this report, we expect to recruit Babcock Integrated Technology in Bristol at the age of 18.
In addition to our graduate scheme, we recruit many graduates directly to Learning on the job was a key consideration for Jessica.
combines shop oor experience, to complete her Performing Engineering Operations PEO, studying at college for her At 31 March 2014, there were 594 apprentices across the Mechanical Engineering HNC and gaining experience in Group 2013: 551 of whom 226 were recruited during the various departments within the business.
The increase in numbers since last year on to either an HND or a foundation degree.
demonstrates the commitment we have to apprenticeship training.
Of those completing their training over 86.5% were appointed into substantive roles within the Group.
We have demonstrated our support and commitment in this area by joining the 5% Club during the year, which involves our committing to having 5% of our workforce on structured training schemes within the next five years.
Babcock apprentices hard at work Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 All together different, is championed by a Diversity Steering Graduate programme Group, which coordinates the implementation of our equality Graduates during the year by division and diversity policy.
This group has started a series of dialogue conferences to debate diversity issues with relevant groups of employees.
This years conference focused on the challenges of being 4 310 1.
Marine and Technology a woman within our organisation.
Defence and Security 37 development programmes are being implemented across the 3.
Support Services 92 organisation following this.
We focus our graduate recruitment 4.
Group 3 programme, particularly for engineering graduates, on those 2 universities that have a richer gender mix.
In 2014, 20% of those employed on our graduate scheme were female.
1 We were assisted at the first dialogue conference by WISE Women in Science and Engineering.
WISE works to promote female talent in science, engineering and technology from classroom to boardroom.
Babcock has invited attendees of the Apprentice programme conference to join WISE at the Companys expense.
The Group Apprentices during the year by division has also become a corporate member of WISE and will be sponsoring one of their national awards to encourage women in science and engineering.
Further information on the work we are doing around our 1.
Marine and Technology 360 diversity can be found on page 80 of this Report.
Support Services 87 102 4. International 3 Babcock Graduate Scheme 1 2 Climbing 25 metre towers to carry out rescues.
All in the course of a Babcock Graduate Scheme, as new engineer Nadine Young is discovering to her delight.
Diversity The University of Liverpool graduate gets to experience a Babcock is committed to equal opportunities and will not different business unit of Babcock every six months.
First up discriminate on the basis of age, race, colour, ethnic origin, was a stint in Power, researching, testing and implementing gender, marital status, religious or political beliefs, sexual new technologies, followed by hands-on tower training orientation or disability: but diversity is about more than this.
Right now shes in Mining and It is about embracing the advantages and richness different Construction, focusing on telemetry a new eld for experiences, skills and outlooks can bring and learning from that Nadine.
Gaining this amount of variety at the beginning diversity to deliver our best for our customers and to safeguard of my career allows me to take the time to think about the future of Babcock.
Equal opportunities and awareness of what I want to do, she says.
I can honestly say Im loving diversity are integral to our talent management system.
As a every minute of my Graduate Scheme.
business it is imperative that we ensure access to the widest pool of talent available, selecting the best candidates based on their ability to do the job.
Babcock operates principally in sectors that have until recently traditionally been regarded as male, such as engineering and working with the armed forces.
Inevitably, companies with this background will tend to be starting from a level of relatively low female participation, especially in management positions.
However we are working hard to change this: as set out on page 81, 20.5% 5,768 of our total workforce is female male 22,370, with 19.8% 113 female senior executives, as fide ned on page 81 male 459, and 18% 2 female Directors on our Board male 9 as at 31 March 2014.
Our diversity initiative, Babcock Graduate Nadine Young Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 62 Sustainability continued Community Babcock seeks to engage with the communities around our sites Corporate Covenant and operations and to provide opportunities for employees to assist with local initiatives and support local charities that are Babcock is proud to support the Armed Forces and our important to them.
We have Group-wide guidelines setting out Reservists.
We are committed to the Total Support Force and our approach to charitable donations, our commitment to the have signed the Corporate Covenant.
We actively recruit communities in which we operate and the broader interests service leavers and reservists.
We support our employees, of our customers.
As well as ensuring financial donations are including providing paid time off for training, through our appropriately targeted, the guidelines also encourage active SaBRE recognised Reserve Forces Policy.
engagement in local community support programmes.
At a Group level, we have continued to provide corporate sponsorship for the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association SSAFA, the forces charity providing support to service families in times of need.
Community engagement The Babcock International Groups Africa division supports a programme that provides high school education for The Corporate Covenant is a written and published voluntary pledge from underprivileged children.
In order to be accepted to these businesses and charitable organisations who wish to demonstrate their bursaries, the child must come from a family that has a total support for the armed forces community family income of no more than 3,500 per year.
Currently, Babcock is sponsoring 20 children through various levels of high school with financial support while at the same time 5.
Managing environmental impact providing mentoring assistance and further bursaries for the children who go on to universities to study in the elds of Babcock works to achieve the highest standards in its science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
We recognise the impact our operations can have on the environment and will seek to eliminate adverse effects wherever possible, and keep to a minimum and mitigate any negative effects where this is not possible.
Many of the sites we operate on are customer owned or operated sites and may be subject to contractual or budgetary constraints: however, this will not deter us from maintaining our own exacting standards of environmental management.
We will strive through our pursuit of excellence to educate and in uence all our customers to raise their standards and adopt our best practices in environmental management and commitment to continual improvement.
Graduation ceremony for the Student Sponsorship Programme class of 2013 At Babcock we recognise that our business operations are dependent on the use of energy from many sources and that these contribute to global carbon emissions.
We are committed to reducing our carbon emissions year-on-year with the long-term aim of achieving a low carbon business solution.
We collect and report on our carbon emissions data across the business and the reductions in our carbon footprint are audited and certi ed to the Carbon Trust Standard.
Whilst our business continues to grow we also continue to strive to identify and implement measures to reduce our overall carbon footprint in relation to our business turnover.
Technical solutions have their part to play but we believe that behavioural changes in the way in which we as people conduct our day-to-day business have an equally important role to play.
Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 More than half of the Groups revenue comes from operations The environment and carbon management that have sought certi cation to ISO14001.
This is an Babcocks certi cation to the Carbon Trust Standard is due for internationally recognised environmental management renewal in 2014 and, as part of the process of continuous system EMS which includes a commitment to a programme improvement in our environmental management and the of continual improvement in environmental performance.
reduction in our CO emissions, we will seek to include more 2 Where we have decided not to seek or are, due to customer of our Scope 3 emissions into the assessment.
We recognise constraints, unable to seek formal accreditation for a business that reporting on environmental performance for such a large unit we apply industry standards and best practices and strive to and diverse company is a complex undertaking: we will also ensure that customers and all applicable legal and regulatory be looking to streamline and standardise our processes for requirements are fully met.
The number of our businesses units collecting and collating data both to ensure greater accuracy with formal accreditation is unchanged from 2013 though as a and transparency in the future and to allow our policies and result of proportionately more revenue coming in 2014 from targets to concentrate on areas where the maximum bene ts business units that have not sought formal accreditation the can be achieved.
percentage of our revenues coming from accredited units has We are continuing to rationalise and improve the ef ciency of declined from 58% to 51%.
the Groups built estate which should reduce our own carbon ISO14001 Industry Best emissions.
We will once again be reporting on emissions arising Division Certi ed Practice from our energy use in the final year of Phase 1 of the Carbon Marine and Technology 20% 80% Reduction Commitment Energy Ef ciency Scheme CRC and Defence and Security 55% 45% for the new CRC Phase 2 which comes into effect in 2014.
Support Services 100% 0% The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors International 0% 100% Reports Regulations 2013, which came into force in October 2013, requires the Group to report on the green house gas Industry Best Practice refers to our environmental management controls GHG emissions arising from all its business activities, including in compliance with industry best practice standards at sites not ISO14001 certi ed.
Collecting and collating this data provides new challenges but again highlights the good sense in developing the knowledge and systems the Company needs to report with accuracy and con dence.
In a world where challenges to a companys reporting on its environmental performance are increasingly likely that con dence is of paramount importance.
Due to the highly diverse nature of the 2 Companys business the metric of tonnes of CO e per m turnover has been used to provide a more meaningful measure of energy use throughout the business.
2 The total emissions from Scope 1,2 and 3 sources have been divided by the annual turnover to provide a final benchmark gure.
