STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRIORITIES We are a business that 2014 priorities 2014 progress 2015 priorities operates responsibly Trust and integrity Code of Conduct refresher training Roll out refreshed Code andwith integrity, Continue to improve and rolled out toemployees across the ofConduct.
evolve the Groups business Group.
Implement Ethical delivering oncustomer conduct programme.
Developed a refreshed Code of Leadership Group NAVEX Undertake external Conduct which will be rolled out Global recommendations requirements by being assessment ofethical culture across the Group in 2015. to ensure continued atrusted partner.
Ethical Leadership Group NAVEX Global conducted anexternal assessment of the Continue to drive Groups business conduct programme alignment and integration and concluded that BAE Systems has of the business conduct all the elements of a best practice programme with human programme in place and should resources, legal and continue to evolve the programme.
Our employees The Group achieved an 11% reduction Continue drive towards a 1 Continue the drive towards in the Recordable Accident Rate.
world-class level of safety aworld-class level of safety.
The number of major most serious 1 Use benchmarking against injuries was reduced by 32%.
Achieve a 10% reduction leading companies to identify 15% stretch target in the Benchmarking against external key areas for improvement Recordable Accident Rate.
companies showed that a number and focus.
ofour businesses are achieving Maintain focus on, and Increase diversity and aworld-class level of safety management and reduction IDENTIFYING TALENTED PEOPLE inclusion within the management.
To identify and train the next generation organisation in accordance All businesses set diversity and Continue to drive a strong oftalent, our UK business initiated a with business goals.
inclusion plans to address specific safety culture through crossbusiness internship programme and Diversity and inclusion plans issues or strategic aims.
These were communication, partnered with universities and government to bealigned with business supported at Group level by the Senior awareness and visible on early employment programmes.
From plans and KeyPerformance Women Mentoring Programme and leadership.
the1,000 applications received for the Indicators identified for extensive involvement in both national All businesses to continue programme, just over100 were accepted monitoring and tracking and regional education schemes to todrive a diversity and ontoourpaid 12week summer programme.
encourage more students from inclusion agenda to different backgrounds, at all stages, In 2015, we plan to recruit nearly 300 address business needs graduates inthe UK with a particular focus into science and engineering.
Around onethird of our Resource efficiency All businesses set and met All businesses to continue total graduate intake will join the Applied Set environmental improvement improvement targets for energy, to drive improvements in Intelligence business.
In the UK, we will also targets to include energy, waterand waste, except where management of materials be taking on over 800 apprentices in 2015, water andwaste.
additional work opportunities and and resources.
twothirds of whom will be employed in extremes of climate impacted.
See summary of Deloitte assurance on page 47.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 43 Strategic Report RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED In order to support the delivery of the We have reinforced our commitment to ETHICAL LEADERSHIP GROUP NAVEX strategy, our responsible business activities ethical behaviour, with our employees GLOBALASSESSMENT focus on the wider impacts of our business receiving ethics training during 2014. which have the most potential to affect the Additional compliance-based e-learning long-term value of the Group.
Speci cally, we training was also targeted at employees focus on ethics and governance, employee throughout the year.
A refreshed Code of safety and wellbeing, diversity and inclusion, Conduct will be rolled out to all employees and operational environmental impacts.
Areas, such as ethics, are managed at If employees or third parties need help or Group level.
Others, such as diversity and guidance in addition to that provided by the inclusion, are managed locally, where teams Code of Conduct, or want to report a apply local knowledge to making a difference concern, they can call the Ethics Helpline, and drive change.
which is managed by a third party and is During 2014, the Ethical Leadership Group, now available 24 hours of every day using a called the Advisory Services Practice of NAVEX Achievement of objectives for employee freephone number from most countries.
Global, conducted an assessment of our business safety is directly linked to the remuneration Employees can also get independent advice conduct programme.
During the assessment, of executive directors and other members NAVEX Global assessed documents, conducted and support, or report concerns, via Ethics ofthe Executive Committee.
interviewswith senior leaders and held focus Of cers, now in place across the business, groups with our employees globally to assess Priorities for diversity and inclusion were or via the Ethics Helpline e-mail address, perceptions of theprogramme.
setwithin each member ofthe Executive which is also made available to third parties NAVEX Globals report concludes that our Committees personal development plan.
During 2014, 1,037 business conductprogramme continues to make Anassessment of progress against these enquiries were reported to Ethics Of cers 1 progress and is now, in many respects, a best actions is determined by the Chief Executive and through the Ethics Helpline.
as part ofeach Executive Committee Our governance framework covers the NAVEX Globals report findings focused on members annual performance review.
products we make and export.
Our furtherembedding and maturing the Groups Responsible Trading Principles, Product business conduct programme, including Trust and integrity Trading Policy and Pursuit of Export recommendations for continued improvements To earn andretain our customers trust, we insocialising and embedding new and existing Opportunities Policy help employees to need to manage ouroperations responsibly processes consistently across the Group: make informed decisions about the business and conduct ourbusiness in an ethical way.
ongoingassessment and improvement of the opportunities we pursue and to address programme elements: and training for line anyresponsible trading risks.
We continue to embed our ethics programme managers and supervisors.
globally, driving the right behaviours by We are committed to respecting human supporting employees in making ethical rights in our operations, within our sphere decisions and embedding responsible ofin uence.
ETHICS DATA 1 1 ENQUIRIES TO ETHICS HELPLINE DISMISSALS FOR REASONS RELATING TO UNETHICAL BEHAVIOUR 1,037 286 2014 2014 2013 1,043 2013 265 1,024 292 2012 2012 2011 1,011 2011 298 734 355 2010 2010 All enquiries reported to Ethics Of cers and via the If an employee is found to be in breach of the Groups Ethics Helpline were reviewed and reported either to Code of Conduct or any other relevant policies, the Ethics Review Committee or, in BAE Systems, Inc. appropriate disciplinary action, which may include to the Ethics Review Oversight Committee.
BAE Systems 44 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report We are committed to creating an inclusive Our employees DIVERSITY IS KEY TO A SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS work environment where a diverse range of Our employees are integral to our success.
In 2014, the Executive Committee talented people can work together to ensure We value the talents and skills that our progressed actions to grow the female business delivery.
Diversity amongst our 1 global workforce of 83,400 people in talent pipeline at senior executive levels: workforce is a signi cant force for innovation.
Fostering a culture of inclusion further We focus on our goal of building a diverse tothe unconscious bias training for all Engaging and developing our workforce workforce which re ects that of the leaders which was rolled out during 2013, forcurrent and future business is key to populations we recruit from.
A particular there was a focus in 2014 on raising further delivering our strategy successfully.
We are, current focus is increasing female awareness and understanding.
This included therefore, committed to attracting, selecting, representation in the pipeline for senior roles.
a UK-wide Diversity and Inclusion Week, developing and retaining the best people to which was the first targeted awareness deliver this.
Engaging our employees to help them make campaign for all employees in the UK.
In the the fullest contribution to the business is Global training and development US, a month-long celebration of the UNs important.
Through a variety of media, we programmes support employees in making Do One Thing for Diversity and Inclusion seek to listen to employees views and the most of their talents.
Programmes are campaign and Going Global engagement opinions, and keep them informed about focused on continuous learning and events were conducted at several sites.
developments and prospects for the development, using a blend of e-learning, business.
Regular internal communication, Accelerating the development of classroom training and partnerships with including e-enabled channels, leadership high-potential women an Executive academic institutions.
blogs, newsletters, management and team Committee mentoring programme was We work with the education sectors in each meetings, monthly team briefs and the launched in 2012 providing support and of our markets to help shape the workforce intranet, keeps employees informed, development to 46 participants in two of the future with a particular emphasis on involved and engaged.
The programme has supported 90% encouraging young people to pursue careers of the first cohort and 50% of the second to The Group welcomes employees becoming in Science, Technology, Engineering and promotions or moves into broader roles.
shareholders in BAE Systems and offers Mathematics STEM.
Increasing leadership diversity to ensure anumber of employee share plans to diverse candidate lists for leadership roles, During 2014, we recruited 275 graduates support this.
where possible, executive search rms and 583 apprentices to support the talent During 2014, employees had the opportunity were employed with a track record of open pipeline in the UK.
to provide feedback via our engagement and inclusive recruitment processes, and The USbusiness contributed in excess of survey see page 20. drawing from an appropriately diverse pool $2m 1m tosupport accredited institutions of candidates, with the overall aim of Safety of our employees, and anybody who and organisations that develop teachers appointing the best person for the role.
works on, or visits, our sites, is a key priority.
andourfuture workforce byencouraging During 2014, the percentage of external We continue to embed a safety first students to pursue and thrive in STEM female candidates hired in the leadership approach byproviding training and tools that disciplines.
BAE Systems, Inc. recruited population was 20%.
help employees to understand the importance approximately 2,400 employees within the ofa safe workplace, and encouraging Measuring performance on a national STEM disciplines during 2014, representing employees to take responsibility for their basis, fide ned goals and actions have been approximately 40% of employees recruited.
ownsafety and the safety of those around put in place to increase gender diversity.
Senior leadership plays a key role in Gender diversity in leadership positions maintaining the focus on safety and leading and succession plans is monitored.
GENDER DIVERSITY DATA AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 Number Number Total Male Female of males of females number % % Board 9 2 11 82 18 Executive Committee 9 2 11 82 18 2 Senior managers 3 Employees in senior executive positions 235 38 273 86 14 Directors of subsidiary companies excluding employees in senior executive positions 84 12 96 88 12 3 Total senior managers 319 50 369 86 14 4,5 Total employees 61,000 15,000 76,000 80 20 1.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Senior managers are fide ned as employees who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities ofthe Group or a strategically signi cant part of the Group and or who are directors of subsidiary companies.
Excluding share of equity accounted investments and rounded to the nearest thousand employees.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 45 Strategic Report RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED The metric used to measure workplace Advisers can only work for us after they have Key relationships injuries is the Recordable Accident Rate been approved via our due diligence process Our employees are critical to the delivery which, along with the number of major and authorised by an external panel.
ofour strategy, but it is also how we work injuries, is used to determine an element responsibly with others that supports We continue to work with peers across ofexecutive bonus.
thedefence industry to improve ethical 1 Recordable Accident Rate decreased by standards.
During 2014, we participated in We work with suppliers who embrace 11%, consistent with the improvement the International Forum on Business Ethical standards of ethical behaviour consistent targetset.
This progress represents a Conducts industry working group on with our own.
seventh consecutive year of improvement.
1 The number of major injuries was reduced We require our suppliers to comply with by 32% to 44 see page 20.
We are committed to strengthening locallegislation.
We expect and encourage relationships and investing in the all our suppliers to embrace ethical values We recognise that a healthy workforce is communities in which we operate.
This is ofa comparable standard to our own.
Our amore engaged and productive one and, done via local recruitment and employment, standards include issues such as ethical during 2014, we continued to promote an contracting with local suppliers where conduct, health and safety, environment enterprise-wide campaign on employee possible, the taxes we pay and by supporting andhuman rights.
local charities and not-for-pro t organisations.
standards is evaluated during thesupplier selection process and, for existing suppliers, Globally, we and our employees, through as part of ongoing quality and approvals theCommunity Investment programme, 1 assurance.
contributed more than 11m during 2014 to local, national and international charities and not-for-pro t organisations.
DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE EXTERNAL RECOGNITION FOR SAFETY PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENTAL AWARDS FOR US SHIPYARD We have global leadership programmes to Radway Green, the Groups centre of excellence In April, our San Diego shipyard received two deliverexecutive development for high-potential for the design, manufacture, proo ng and supply awards for its sustainability efforts.
individuals looking to accelerate their career of small arms ammunition at the Munitions The first award came from the Port of San Diego, andleadership capability.
The diversity, career business in the UK, has won a prestigious which honoured  progression and retention of participants is RoyalSociety for the Prevention of Accidents portbusinesses thathave shown exemplary monitored on a regular basis to measure the RoSPA Gold Medal for reducing injuries and environmental achievements.
During a 12-month effectiveness of these development programmes.
itscommitment to continuous improvement assessment period, the San Diego yard achieved inaccident and ill-health prevention at work.
In Australia, our Accelerated Development a reduction in energy, water and waste.
The Themedal is awarded once a company has Programme is open to those who are identi ed shipyard currently uses oily water separators, received five consecutive Gold awards in RoSPAs as high-potential individuals, and who have which process large quantities of industrial waste annual Occupational Health and Safety Awards.
theenergy and focus to accelerate their waterand remove the freeoating oil, grease development.
The programme is designed to Other Munitions sites, Bishopton Environmental and raw petroleum hydrocarbons from waste accelerate high-potential leaders through a Test Facility, Ridsdale Range and Washington, each water, allowing for reduction of the amount of two-year on-the-job development experience.
received an individual 2014 RoSPA Gold award.
Employees are required to participate in a range The second award came from the County of of development activities, including: mentoring SanDiego on Earth Day.
The sustainable bya management board or senior lead team business award was given, in part, for the member: leading business projects that grow and shipyards efforts to manage waste with an 80% stretch them professionally: building a targeted diversion rate to land lls.
Paper waste produced individual development plan that addresses in of ces is 100% recycled.
Metals and abrasive areas for improvement: access to career blasting materials are recycled and diverted.
development coaching: and the opportunity to push their career with up to one role change during the programme.
BAE Systems 46 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report global trend data.
During 2014, at Group Businesses have environmental Resource ef ciency level, we decreased the amount of electricity management systems in place that monitor Minimising the impact on the environment and natural gas used, and hazardous waste and manage impacts from greenhouse gas ofour operations andproducts, and using generated.
However, water used and emissions, material and solvent use, waste resources more ef ciently are focus areas.
non-hazardous waste generated increased products and emissions to the atmosphere.
Our primary operational impacts on the re ecting throughput on programmes, Environmental considerations are taken environment are through the use of energy particularly at shipyard, submarine and intoaccount throughout a products lifecycle used for heating and lighting work spaces.
from concept, design and manufacture We have relatively few energy-intensive Our reported greenhouse gas emissions through to use and disposal.
Water use is typically linked have decreased by 4% between 2013 reducing the environmental impacts of our toemployee numbers, apart from in our and2014.
The reduction in Scope 1 and products during research and development, Munitions business where water is used 2emissions has been mainly due to a minimising waste materials during viasteam and cooling.
In the majority of decrease in purchased electricity across manufacturing, and helping to reduce the businesses, waste is of high value and ourbusiness as a result of various energy impact of our products when they are used, recycled wherever possible.
Our Scope 3 upgraded or disposed of.
Our businesses have targets in place to emissions have reduced by 9% largely reduce the environmental impact of their duetoimprovements in the environmental operations and products by reducing energy, ef ciency of commercial ights and a water and waste at a local level.
These marginal decrease in business travel.
targets address speci c issues or strategic Wehave maintained a per employee rate aims.
At Group level, we monitor business of18 tonnes CO e. 2 performance against targets and review GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA FOR THE PERIOD 1 NOVEMBER TO 31 OCTOBER DELOITTE ASSURANCE Total emissions Methodology This year, Deloitte LLP has The sources of greenhouse gas emissions fall within TONNES the Groups consolidated financial statements.
provided limited assurance on Emissions from joint ventures and pension scheme CO E 2 the following performance properties not occupied by the Group are not included.
The greenhouse gas emissions data is in line with indicators at Group level: theGreenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting 4% andReporting Standard revised version and Ethics employee and third-party enquiries 1 emissionfactors for fuels and electricity from the 2014 TONNE 1, S 336,751 to Ethics Helpline anddismissals for  for Environment 2 CO E reasons relating to unethical behaviour: 2013 2 1,393,646 Food&RuralAffairs DEFRA, published at www.
co. uk Diversity and inclusion total employees Combustion of fuel within BAE Systems facilities The CO e associated with carbon dioxide, methane 2 split by gender: 1% and nitrous oxide is reported.
Greenhouse gas and vehicles Scope 1 emissions associated with hydro uorocarbons, Safety Recordable Accident Rate and the 1 TONNES 585,233 2014 per uorocarbons and sulphur hexa uoride are number of major injuries recorded: estimated to be immaterial to total emissions.
CO E 2 2 2013 590,451 The principal record of the Groups worldwide facilities Community total Community Investment isits legal departments Global Property Database.
Electricity and steam purchased for BAE Systems programme donations: and 6% Greenhouse gas emissions are primarily calculated use Scope 2 from energy consumption records reported via the Environment greenhouse gas emissions.
1 TONNES 2014 594,866 Groups global environmental database.
Where CO E actual usage data is not available for facilities and 2 2 2013 630,522 residences within the Global Property Database, an estimated consumption is used based on the type Business travel in non-BAE Systems vehicles ofbuilding.
9% Scope 3 Greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel 1 include air travel data for the majority of the global 2014 156,652 business and rail data for business units operating in 2 2013 172,673 the UK and US.
These data are taken from suppliers procurement records.
3 Total emissions per employee TO SEE DELOITTE LLPS TONNES UNQUALIFIED ASSURANCE CO E 2 STATEMENT VISIT BAESYSTEMS.
COM  0% TO SEE OUR BASIS OF 1 2014 18 REPORTING 2014 VISIT BAESYSTEMS.
See summary of Deloitte assurance above.
Our published 2013 greenhouse gas emissions have been re-calculated as the conversion factors used in the calculations have changed.
Excluding share of equity accounted investments.
