36 SAFE, INNOVATIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Working safely, ethically and responsibly for a positive legacy HEALTH AND SAFETY drivers behaviour in order to intervene The Group Lost Time Incident and correct.
All of our UK drivers complete Rate LTIR With operations in the UK, US, Middle psychometric testing so we can identify Increased to 0.27 from 0.23 in 2013.
39% East and South East Asia, we span many and address risks.
of our businesses recorded an improved cultures and environments and it is vital or zero LTIR in 2014. that we operate to high professional In 2014, we changed our primary lagging standards in every location.
indicator of health and safety performance 0.27 2014 from Accident Frequency Rate AFR to Only by setting the highest standards for 2013 0.23 Lost Time Injury Rate LTIR.
The LTIR, a ourselves will we be able to retain the trust universally recognised measure, is a more 2012 of our customers and the people using 0.26 thorough indicator and has been selected our infrastructure.
to help us achieve our Zero Harm goal.
It We work to the challenging safety Major injury rate recognises all lost time injuries and injuries requirements set out in our Zero Harm 138 major injuries were reported in 2014 that result in restricted duty or transfers, Roadmap 20132017.
Each business compared to 130 in 2013.
Four of those and includes direct, indirect and joint must follow the requirements, and the major injuries were classified as venture employees.
At year end our extent to which they meet them is verified permanently disabling.
LTIR for the entire Group was 0.27.
Furthermore, we have a set of comparison our LTIR in 2013 was 0.23 0.05 rules that define the way we work called 2014 compared to 0.26 in 2012 and 0.29 our Global Safety Principles.
2013 0.04 of our tough stance on eliminating safety As a result of workplace injuries, our 2012 0.06 risk, our businesses are developing smart workers lost 5,792 days during 2014. and innovative solutions to prevent This is an improvement on 2013 5,996. incidents and keep people safe.
Public injury rate According to incident data collated and There were 70 injuries to members of the Read more about our GSPs online prepared by ENCORD European Network public in 2014, an improvement of 36% balfourbeatty.
com GSP of Construction Companies, these from 2013. figures represent some of the lowest Despite our unwavering focus on safety, levels of absence due to workplace injuries six workers lost their lives across the 2014 0.02 compared to our competitors across Group as a result of our work activities in 2013 Europe.
The incidents occurred in the UK, by our workforce in 2014 which is 15% Germany, US, Hong Kong and the UAE.
Three of the workers were employed by subcontractors and three workers were In 2014 our business won a number of direct employees.
We were named Safe Railroad Contractor Every fatal accident is subject to a of the Year by the National Railroad thorough investigation and a detailed Construction & Maintenance Association review by the Group Chief Executive and for the third consecutive year in the US, the executive team.
To ensure improved and won six awards, more than any other future performance, in 2014 five Chief company, at the annual Heathrow Health Executive reviews were held covering and Safety Awards.
each business area and joint venture business.
As a result of the reviews, a In 2015 and beyond, we will maintain number of lessons learnt were shared our Zero Harm goal of zero fatalities, across the Group, including the need to zero disabling injuries, zero injuries to tackle individual behaviour, tighten control members of the public and zero new of subcontractor operations, and improve cases of long-term harm to health.
We are driver risk policies.
renewing our focus on the elimination of fatal risks, increasing the level of personal One of the work-related fatalities was the accountability for safety, and determining result of a road traffic accident in the US.
revised health and safety targets for each We have taken steps to make road travel business and the Group as a whole.
safer for our employees, including installing telematics devices to monitor Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 37 PEOPLE AND LEADERSHIP In recognition of our work to develop our the UK Governments Your Life campaign, young employees, in 2014 we received a which is encouraging the study of STEM Keeping our people engaged and Partnership Certificate from The Duke of subjects amongst female students.
motivated is critical to ensuring our Edinburghs Award scheme, supported by sustainable growth.
Further building on our Opportunity the Employer Ownership of Skills fund.
Now accreditation, a Connecting Women 2014 saw a significant change in the network forum has been introduced composition of our global workforce.
Up-skilling the UKs across the UK businesses.
However, Following the divestment of Balfour  the proportion of female employees Beatty WorkPlace 8,700 employees, We have received a government grant has reduced in recent years with the to GDF SUEZ in December 2013 and to further develop the leadership and disposals of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace the divestment of Parsons Brinckerhoff technical skills of our workforce and and Parsons Brinckerhoff.
14,500 employees to WSP in November to attract people into the industry.
2014, the Group has reduced to 25,693 Female employees across the workforce: Over the next three years over 2,000 employees in its continuing operations at employees will benefit from the grant 2014 17% 31 December 2014 and a further 12,000 made available by the UK Commission 2013 22% employees as a proportional allocation for Employment & Skills Skills Funding of its joint ventures.
2012 23% Agency under the Employer Ownership 2011 25% We continued to invest in our people of Skills fund.
The newly established in 2014, through the training and Balfour Beatty Academy will deliver An LGBT network has also been development of our existing employees this programme, which, in partnership established as part of the Stonewall and targeted external recruitment with the UK Government, has already Diversity Champion programme.
Balfour developed 10 new apprenticeship as necessary.
Beatty is also the first infrastructure qualifications for our industry.
company to become a member of the These training and development Furthermore, we work in partnership with OUTstanding LGBT professional network programmes operate within the context The Princes Trust, who train unemployed and is proud to be represented in the 2014 of a Group-wide Organisation and young people through its Get into Financial Times Top 100 LGBT Business People Review, which ensures consistent methodology and visibility of talent, Construction programme.
Over the last Leaders list.
so that succession planning, leadership five years, 400 young people completed We also strive to provide employment, training and development interventions this programme, learning while working training and development opportunities draw on a global pool.
About 70% of these people for disabled people wherever possible.
We gained employment with us directly or are committed to supporting employees Emerging talent with our supply chain.
who become disabled during employment In 2014, we joined The 5% Club and are and to helping disabled employees make committed to the aim of ensuring that Diversity andinclusion the best use of their skills and potential, within the next four years 5% of our UK Diversity and inclusion remain central to consistent with all other employees.
workforce are apprentices, Balfour Beatty our people strategy.
We value diversity graduates or sponsored students on and celebrate individual differences, We remain committed to investing structured programmes.
The number of believing that our inclusive culture helps in industry-leading people throughout graduates and apprentices as a proportion the business continue to grow as a strong, a period of considerable change.
It is of our UK businesses is consistent with dynamic and innovative organisation.
this commitment and the continued 2013, despite selling Parsons Brinckerhoff engagement of our employees that will Key interventions are in place to enhance with its large graduate pool.
provide the foundations for our recovery diversity and inclusion in our core and future growth.
For example, we are supporting Apprentices 326 Graduates 184 Sponsored students 17 At 31 December 2014 Male Female Total % Male % Female Total UK workforce 17,000 Board 6 1 7 86 14 % of structured trainees 3.1% 1 Senior management 75 14 89 84 16 Directors of subsidiaries 286 33 319 90 10 Our UK businesses are supporting around 2 Group 21,223 4,470 25,693 83 17 230 people studying part-time at local colleges and universities.
1 Members of Group head office and divisional senior leadership teams.
com AR2014 38 SAFE, INNOVATIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED VALUES AND BEHAVIOUR Review of whistleblowing hotline Leading the way in business ethics We encourage our staff and wider We are committed to acting as a leader We have a well-developed ethics and community to report any concerns about in business ethics in the construction compliance programme.
Our focus is on unethical conduct.
We treat all concerns and engineering sector.
continual improvement and on monitoring seriously and investigate all good faith the areas where we are most at risk.
Business Integrity Round Table concerns wherever possible.
In 2014 we identified a need for the A primary area of focus during 2014 In 2014 we ran a promotional campaign industry to work together to develop has been to ensure that our ethics and across certain business units for the business ethics best practice.
compliance programme remains fresh hotline, which prompted a marked in our peoples minds and is increasingly As a result we spearheaded the formation increase in the reporting of incidents in embedded throughout the Group.
of an industry-focused Business Integrity those areas of the business.
We believe Round Table made up of both service The sale of Parsons Brinckerhoff means this correlates with an increase in visibility.
The that we no longer operate in some To ensure we are doing enough to both inaugural meeting was held in January jurisdictions which typically pose a high encourage reporting and investigate 2015 and the meetings are co-chaired by risk of ethics and compliance violations.
allegations to the best of our ability, our Group Head of Ethics & Compliance.
However, we continue to work in a we conducted an end-to-end review of number of higher-risk countries and Investing in Integrity our hotline and investigations processes acknowledge that the construction and Investing in Integrity is a UK Charter in 2014.
Several reforms are being engineering sector is a high-risk sector Mark designed to enable an organisation implemented.
In particular we transitioned in general.
Accordingly, we continue to reassure its key stakeholders that to a new whistleblowing hotline service to have in place extensive anticorruption its business can demonstrate a in early 2015.
The new hotline will improve measures.
We are also mindful of the commitment to act with integrity at all interaction with whistleblowers, help us broader ethics risks which exist within times.
This is assessed by testing its collect vital information, and provide us the sector.
ethical conduct to ensure those values with better case management technology are properly embedded.
In addition to the traditional areas of ethical to support investigations.
risk, new areas of focus include human Several of our divisions have completed rights such as childrens rights and labour Number of Ethics Helpline cases the requirements to achieve Investing conditions.
Human rights matters have in Integrity accreditation during 2014.
270 2014 been addressed by our Code of Conduct We expect to achieve full accreditation for many years.
2012 273 Key initiatives in 2014 To improve the effectiveness of our ethics and compliance programme, some of our Number of Ethics Helpline cases initiatives have included the following.
excluding HR grievances New training for site-based staff 204 2014 To help embed the ethics programme 2013 208 across the business, we developed new training for our site-based staff.
A key 2012 221 element of the training is a video facilitated by leaders onsite, providing our site staff Number of cases per 1,000 employees with practical and relevant guidance on Balfour Beatty our values and the standards of ethical behaviour we expect of everyone 7.6 2014 working on our sites.
2013 5.3 The vast majority of our site-based staff 2012 4.8 have completed ethics and values training and will receive periodic refresher training.
Number of cases per 1,000 employees global benchmark 2014 13 2013 12 2012 12 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 39 INNOVATION, RESEARCH Colorado at Boulder, Virginia Tech, ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT and the University of Texas at Austin.
Our sustainability strategy, the Blueprint, is customer-focused, embedded in the Innovation plays an important role in Other innovations include Gammons local community, efficient, innovative and building long-term relationships and development of a Green Concrete range.
As a result, sustainability is creating additional value for our customers.
It is the only supplier in Hong Kong to offer at the heart of all of our operations.
Most of our innovation emanates from low carbon concrete solutions that are collaboration with our customers, joint PAS 2050:2011 certified.
Gammon used Optimising our environmental performance ventures, supply chain and internal 3D printing to develop roof designs at is key to driving efficiencies and winning collaboration across our businesses.
Midfield Concourse at Hong Kong work.
We are industry leaders in reducing International Airport and new visualisation carbon emissions and mitigating business In 2014, we developed a unique tool to software solutions in Singapore.
Balfour risks of climate change, as one of only track the amount of money we spend with Beatty also created an award-winning two companies in the construction sector local small to medium sized businesses PPP scheme for a hospital in Canada earning a grade A position on the global SMEs in the UK.
The tool captures that will be the first public infrastructure CDP Climate Performance Leadership valuable data for our customers to project to be financed with green bonds Index 2014. demonstrate the value we are adding in North America.
We have continued to improve the We have also developed new smartphone accuracy of measurement techniques, Some of our innovations are informed by tablet apps such as a production, reporting specifically around our Scope 1 and 2 research work at several academic partner and tracking app to accurately track man emissions, and are striving to improve organisations, including Salford University hours on projects, a Zero Harm app for the accuracy of other sustainability Building Information Modelling BIM, tracking potential incidents on motorways metrics in the future.
Bristol University systems engineering, with our joint venture partners Mott Liverpool John Moores University Standards MacDonald, and a 3D game that scores condition monitoring, Sheffield University Sustainability is an integral part of an individuals ability to highlight potential smart buildings, University College modern infrastructure projects: our public worksite risks.
London future leaders in infrastructure, sector clients require conformance to Manchester University composite cross However, our greatest opportunities standards such as BREEAM, LEED, arms, and Loughborough University are on our projects where we are able BEAM, ESTIDAMA, Green Mark, and accounting for whole-life carbon emissions to deliver savings and benefits for our CEEQUAL and these are important from highways maintenance contracts.
customers by offering creative solutions.
Meeting these Other innovations are powered by employee Our innovation champions across our standards has resulted in a 2.3 billion insights which tackle mega trends and businesses capture, share and turnover on green infrastructure projects existing efficiencies.
We are also running two projects funded Our ability to collaborate has been Our certifications in this area and by Innovate UK.
One is in collaboration enhanced by the growth in communities our technical knowledge mprove with Queens University Belfast and the of practice, by the deployment of training the whole life performance of our University of West of England to devise in collaborative working practices customers projects.
a new BIM tool that designers and and through our ongoing Group-wide contractors can use to successfully predict accreditation to the standard BS 11000 Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions and reduce waste at the design phase.
We have seen a slight increase in carbon The other is working with technology emissions intensity in 2014 compared to start-up 3DRepo and the Association 2013.
Since establishing our baseline in of Interior Specialists to support the development of a new innovative procurement application called Bid4Free.
Absolute tonnes of CO e 2 The application reduces the cost of Base year bidding by digitising transactions.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Scope 1 327,968 348,940 320,136 287,061 295,219 In the US, we have taught students and Scope 2 116,597 133,308 131,658 125,980 120,126 funded research at Penn State University, Total CO e emissions 444,565 482,248 451,794 413,041 415,345 2 Stanford University, the University of Total CO2e emissions per m revenue 43.2 44.1 41.9 35.1 36.0 Scope 1 emissions include those resulting from the combustion of fuel and operation of facilities, Scope 2 emissions result from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use.
The full description of our definitions can be found in our reporting guidance found at balfourbeatty.
com AR2014 40 SAFE, INNOVATIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED 2010, we have reduced our overall Scope calculation of GHG emissions as well GHG data in the context of the full limited 1 and 2 emissions by 29,220 tonnes 7% as other sustainability metrics.
assurance statement and the reporting of CO equivalent CO e. Our CO criteria as set out in the Balfour Beatty 2 2 2 Read our full reporting guidance online emissions m turnover has dropped from reporting guidelines available at at balfourbeatty.
com enablon 43.2 tonnes of CO e m to 36.0 tonnes balfourbeatty.
2 of CO e m since our 2010 baseline year, We have determined and reported the 2 CDP which equates to a 17% reduction.
emissions we are responsible for within We are now included in the A List: The this boundary and do not believe there are Our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions have CDP Climate Performance Leadership any material omissions.
We use the UK reduced from 444,565 tonnes of CO e in 2 Index 2014, the most widely used global Governments carbon conversion factors 2010 to 415,345 tonnes of CO e in 2014.
2 sustainability index which measures that were updated in 2014 to calculate our carbon performance and environmental Our 2015 goal is to achieve a 20% emissions into equivalent tonnes of carbon governance.
Our score has increased reduction per million turnover of dioxide CO e. 2 by 16 points since 2012. our Scope 1 and 2 emissions against We have incorporated landlord emissions a 2010 baseline.
data for the properties we rent or lease 2014 94 100 These targets will mean reduced operating where we are not the utility bill payer to 2013 89 100 costs for our businesses and therefore meet the new GHG reporting requirements.
improved value to our customers and We have only reported on Parsons 2012 78 100 shareholders.
Additionally, a number of our Brinckerhoff data up to the point of sale, customers have expressed an intention to 31 October 2014.
All historical data for Environmental compliance prequalify contractors on the basis of their Balfour Beatty WorkPlace, which was In 2014, 10 environmental incidents 2013: carbon performance in the future.
disposed of in 2013, has been omitted.
4, 2012: 4 resulted in enforcement action Gammon, our joint venture in Hong Kong, We engaged KPMG to undertake and fines totalling 9,917 2013: 13,260, accounts for approximately 29% of our an independent limited assurance 2012: 66,800.
Six of the violations Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
In 2014, it engagement, reporting to Balfour Beatty related to noise, two were for allowing became the first construction company plc, using the assurance standards ISAE mosquitos to breed, one for an unauthorised in Hong Kong to be awarded the 3000 and ISAE 3410 over the greenhouse discharge and one for soil erosion.
There CarbonCare Label that covers all of its gas data that have been highlighted in were corrective actions for each violation.
operations in Hong Kong except joint this report with the symbol.
This is in addition to statement is available on our website the ISO 14064-1 international standard at balfourbeatty.
for quantifying and reporting greenhouse The level of assurance provided for gas GHG emissions it holds.
Its Scope 1 a limited assurance engagement is and 2 GHG emissions are independently substantially lower than a reasonable verified by SGS.
In order to reach Read more at balfourbeatty.
com efficient their opinion they performed a range of procedures over the GHG data including: GHG reporting and assurance interviewing management responsible for Our GHG emissions are reported in the data, examining reporting processes accordance with the UK Governments and documentation, agreeing a selection GHG reporting requirements covering of the data to the corresponding source all six Kyoto gases.
documentation at operating company level and performing analytical procedures over We use the operational control approach the aggregated data at Balfour Beatty under the GHG Protocol Corporate Group level.
A summary of the work they Accounting and Reporting Standard as of performed is included within their 31 December 2014 to report emissions assurance opinion.
from our operations around the world.
This includes assets that are otherwise Non-financial performance information, not referred to across the rest of the GHG quantification in particular, is subject financial statements as defined in our to more inherent limitations than financial reporting guidance.
It is important to read the developed reporting guidance for the Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 41 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Working together with The Princes Trust TAXATION over the last five years, we have helped Our tax strategy, approved by the Board, Wherever we operate, we strive to leave transform the lives of 3,458 young people.
is to sustainably minimise our tax cost a positive legacy.
We sponsor several Get Into programmes, whilst complying with the law.
Despite a challenging year, our employees which offer young people in the UK the In doing so, we ensure we act in have continued to support both the opportunities to work on our sites as accordance with our ethics, values and communities in which we operate and apprentices, helping them get onto the compliance programme.
We always our core charitable programmes.
To date, we have consider the financial and reputational supported over 470 young people with Delivering social value risk arising from our management of tax work placements on construction-related In many markets our ability to demonstrate issues, aiming to maximise long-term Get Into programmes.
In 20132014, the social value of our operations in shareholder value.
72% of these young people moved into economic terms is vital.
To benefit local employment, education or training.
We have an open, honest and positive areas, we use local suppliers, employees working relationship with HMRC and and materials wherever possible, and Our US construction business contributed are committed to prompt disclosure and invest in future talent through over US$903,000 to charitable causes in transparency in all tax matters.
Where apprenticeship schemes and work 2014.
Examples of the projects include: disputes arise with tax authorities with placement opportunities.
Balfour Beatty Constructions central regard to the interpretation and application Community investment through regions Night of Comedy events, which of tax law, we are committed to charitable fundraising raised US$150,000 for local charities addressing the matter promptly and Through the Balfour Beatty Charitable Trust, resolving it with the tax authority in an Annual Balfour Beatty Sporting Clay we aim to help the most disadvantaged open and constructive manner.
Shoot, raising US$60,000 for the Texas young people in society, with a focus on Health Resources Foundation The Group makes a major contribution employment and employability, health, to the tax revenues of governments sport and wellbeing.
The Beale Air Force Military Housing from its activities in over 80 countries in teams Tin Cup Charity Fishing In the UK, we work with three primary which it operated in 2014.
For example, Tournament raised US$250,000 for charities that we support through our the Groups UK tax contribution extends local charities over the five-year project.
Building Better Futures fundraising and significantly beyond corporate tax, volunteering programme: Barnardos, This year, Balfour Beatty announced it is as the size of its workforce means it Coram, and The Princes Trust.
extending its sponsorship of the London not only collects very large amounts Youth Games to 2016, which will take Barnardos joined as a partner in 2013, of income tax, but also pays over 100 the total sponsorship to 10 years.
Since while we have supported Coram and million in employers national insurance Balfour Beatty started sponsoring the The Princes Trust since 2008.
During this contributions in a typical year.
Games, participant numbers have time, we have donated almost 2 million increased fivefold, and the number of our to programmes aimed at helping young employees volunteering at the Games people, as well as providing support Our 2014 Strategic Report, from reached a record number in 2014. in-kind, such as through employee pages 1 to 41, was approved by volunteering.
In 2014, we donated theBoard on 24 March 2015.
For our business it brings multiple benefits, 19,734 through our Building Better including engaging our employees in Duncan Magrath Futures programme.
volunteering, community engagement, Chief Financial Officer helping customer relationships and Given the youth unemployment issue supporting communities in and around affecting communities around the UK, London where we operate.
and the skills gap opening up in the UK construction sector, we have focused For the participants, we recognise many of our programmes on improving the value that sport brings to the lives employment and employability.
of young people and are committed to helping raise their aspirations, Our partnership with Barnardos focuses motivation and attainment levels on four hubs across the UK.
These provide in local communities.
school leavers with the necessary skills and qualifications to pursue careers in construction, mechanics, office administration, and much more.
