Corporate responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The way we conduct our business in the communities and environments in which we operate forms an important part of our culture.
As long-term stewards of two major estates in London, we have a strong commitment to creating public value and delivering our strategy with integrity.
Our programme of CR related activities focuses on benefiting young people from the area where our assets are located.
We aim to enhance local employment and maximise opportunity for underprivileged young people.
We also actively support work with homeless people, injured service personnel and veterans.
Our asset management and construction strategy is underpinned by an ambitious environmental strategy and a desire to lead in this area.
Our employees remain engaged with the programme and contributed 625 hours to CR related activities during 2014.
Our CR strategy continues to develop as our business plan is delivered and From the Chairman of the we regularly review progress against our targets.
We welcome feedback from Corporate Responsibility Committee our stakeholders on environmental and community issues.
Delivering our strategy with integrity Ian Henderson Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 26 February 2015 Capco runners raised 32,000 participating in the Royal Parks half-marathon 44 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key Some progress Satisfactory progress Good progress Local communities we make a positive impact on the local communities where our assets are located What we achieved in 2014 2015 objective Progress Continue to support community projects which specically benefit Continue to support community young people in London within the areas where our assets are located.
projects which specically benefit young people in London within the Earls Court areas where our assets are located.
As part of the 2014 Earls Court Education Programme: Pupils from Year 5 at Fulham Primary School undertook a story book project looking at Earls Court past and present.
Having benefited from coaching from a professional actor, they presented some of the fascinating stories they had researched and photographed.
In addition, Year 2 pupils from Servite Primary School became detectives and looked at the streets surrounding Earls Court, investigating their current appearance and predicting how they will look in the future.
We sponsored the Bizworld Charity Project which offers children a hands-on, project-based learning programme covering key aspects of entrepreneurship.
This year the Take Four schools project involved approximately 100 Year 6 pupils from four local schools across our assets.
This lm making project was designed to engage children in personal safety, community safety and health issues through new media.
The grand nale took place at Olympia in front of a large audience.
The finance team at head office spent a morning designing a large collage of London with members from the Learning Disabilities Resource Centre who have severe disabilities.
Covent Garden The Covent Garden team continues to work alongside local stakeholders and community groups, residents, tenants and The Covent Garden Area Trust to improve the local area.
We hosted the Apple Market Challenge for the ninth year running.
Year 6 students from nine schools were mentored by sixth formers, and the task involved designing and marketing a product to be sold on the market.
Four nalists were chosen to come to Covent Garden to present to an expert panel.
The winning team created a multi-purpose Super Smart Bag that was a phone charger, cooler pocket for cold drinks and a pull-out laptop holder.
A 2014 highlight was the Turtles Nursery new garden project.
Capco volunteers teamed up with contractors and architects working on the Kings Court development to help fund the 9k project, and staff helped build and paint new equipment.
We continue to enhance local employment by supporting the work of Recruit London.
who are regularly introduced to occupiers of our estate at stakeholder events.
We created a leaet outlining their service, which we provide to new and existing retailers who may not otherwise be aware of it.
Our retailers have recruited 59 new employees via the scheme 17 of those in 2014. www.
com 45 Corporate responsibility continued Local communities we make a positive impact on the local communities where our assets are located What we achieved in 2014 Progress 2015 objective Further develop our property management strategy for the benefit of A further 4m investment is all stakeholders.
planned for Olympia in 2015 to ensure that it maintains its position There have been significant improvements in the facilities at Olympia during 2014 as a leading UK venue.
and, following the investment of 4m, the venue has been prepared for an increased number of events due to be held in 2015 and beyond.
Major planned projects include the refurbishment of the Grand Hall The majority of the investment has been used to refurbish the venues roofs to improve the watertight integrity of the exhibition spaces.
In addition, the National roof and improved heating and Hall benefited from an additional goods lift and upgraded air handling units.
lighting for the Grand Hall.
Organisers can now request a sustainability report for their events and, since this Increase uptake of sustainability service was launched in July, four show reports have been issued.
The Covent Garden Management Plan was developed.
This included the continued Implement further enhanced funding of two Street Wardens known as Covent Garden Guardians who minimise cleaning more widely in Covent illegal trading, y-tipping and unsocial behaviour around the Covent Garden Garden introduction of new estate.
Supplemental cleaning was also implemented in the area, including equipment.
Implement a scrubbing of pavements, bin washing and litter picking.
The Customer Forum meetings continued this year with more emphasis on Further develop the Customer providing customer research information to stakeholders.
Forum meetings, widening the topics covered and build closer We carried out a further set of Customer Forum Meetings at Covent Garden with relationships with stakeholders stakeholders, and for the first time shared the research carried out during the Christmas period.
We completed a further set of Sparkle Weeks during July which included via the newly appointed Retail painting of public realm areas such as bollards, street lamps, railings and gates.
Students from four schools participated in Capcos Take Four educational initiative 46 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Capco people we employ people with a diverse range of experience and expertise What we achieved in 2014 Progress 2015 objective To further develop learning programmes that will enhance the capability To further develop learning and performance of our people.
programmes that will enhance the capability and performance We continue to attract talented graduates who attend a structured induction of our people.
programme on joining the business, which involves technical skills training, effective time management skills, communication, inuencing and impact skills.
The graduates have access to an external trainer to provide them with support in obtaining their APC qualications.
All graduates rotate around the business for a period of six to nine months to ensure they get a broad depth of experience.
An internal leadership training programme Essential Management Skills commenced in April 2014 for our high potential employees at mid-level.
The aim of the programme was to develop their capabilities in leadership, focusing on personal awareness, communication, effectiveness, collaboration and delegation skills.
The programme culminated in the delegates developing a robust solution to a current business challenge or opportunity.
A training programme was delivered to secretarial staff covering communication, professionalism, time management and networkingskills.
A number of employees benefited from external coaching and internal mentoring which focused on individual development needs.
Overall, 79.5 per cent of total employees at head office and Covent Garden attended training during 2014 equating to more than 1,000 hours.
Collaboration across the Group was enhanced by the introduction of bespoke team building exercises.
For example, the Earls Court team spent a day learning about team work in Formula One.
They experienced a high pressure team situation by taking part in a simulated pit-stop challenge supervised by the Williams Formula One team.
The Covent Garden team used the Belbin model to analyse team dynamics.
At the Venues business, training in 2014 focused on the following key areas: customer service, health and safety, security of guests, staff and premises, sustainability, statutory compliance and technical training for facilities management.
Encourage employees to engage in CR initiatives and contribute Encourage employees to engage in 350 Group employee hours to supporting these projects.
CR initiatives and contribute 400 Group employee hours to Capco staff completed 625 hours of CR related activities during 2014, an increase supporting these projects.
A greater variety of opportunities for employees to participate in Company-wide CR projects was offered and individuals were encouraged to volunteer for the CR initiatives publicised via the Companys intranet, The Wire.
We continued to monitor diversity in our Gender diversity % employee population carefully and we have a high ratio of women : men at senior 100 1 11 127 operational level in the Company, compared 9 with other companies in our sector.
80 213 60 10 40 20 0 Board Senior All management employees Male Female www.
com 47 Corporate responsibility continued Capco people we employ people with a diverse range of experience and expertise What we achieved in 2014 Progress 2015 objective Continue to include a CR related personal objective for each employee.
Continue to include a CR related personal objective for Each employee had a CR related personal objective for 2014. each employee.
Continue to promote the Company matched funding scheme and raise Continue to promote the Company awareness of individuals efforts on our intranet.
matched funding scheme and raise awareness of individuals efforts on Overall participation in fundraising activities in aid of selected charities has become our intranet.
Staff matched funding reached a record high.
This year 22,000 was match funded.
In total, staff raised 60,000 for various charities and of particular note is the 32,000 raised by 10 runners from Capco in the Royal Park half-marathon.
Health & Safety regular reporting and monitoring What we achieved in 2014 Progress 2015 objective Further improve our health and safety reporting across the Group.
Ensure that good standards of health and safety across the Group The Groups Health & Safety Committee, chaired by the Executive Investment are maintained, including in Director, met on a monthly basis to review activities across the business and ensure that satisfactory policies and procedures were inplace.
relation to our development-related activities at Covent Garden, With the commencement of works on site at Earls Court and Lillie Square, we have Lillie Square and Earls Court.
carried out a review of health and safety training requirements and implemented a programme of training to ensure that all staff are aware of their responsibilities.
Ensure that health and safety continues to be at the forefront of At Covent Garden, there were 15 RIDDOR incidents during 2014 and 59 accidents event planning and management.
There were no injuries to staff.
At the Venues business, bi-monthly staff health and safety meetings were conducted.
In addition, as competent health and safety representation for every event is a venue requirement, safety briengs were held with each event organising team.
There were six RIDDOR incidents during 2014 and 78 accidents overall involving visitors to Earls Court events.
Two staff were treated for minorinjuries.
To the end of December 2014, there were three RIDDOR accidents involving visitors to Olympia events and 190 accidents overall: no specic trends or major injuries were identied.
There were seven injuries to staff, all of which were minor.
48 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate CR Strategy embedded into the fabric of our day-to-day work What we achieved in 2014 Progress 2015 objective Continue to build engagement with the CR agenda across the Group.
Continue to build engagement with the CR agenda across the Group.
The CR Executive Committee, chaired by the Director of HR & CR, was responsible for setting strategy and ensuring that CR initiatives aligned with overarching corporate strategy.
The committee comprised key individuals from two operational committees which focused on environmental and community issues.
Manage potential risks on an on-going basis, escalating concerns Manage potential risks on an promptly where appropriate.
on-going basis, escalating concerns promptly where appropriate.
CR-related risks are included in the Capco risk register and are reviewed internally bi-annually.
They are also reviewed externally by ENVIRON UK Ltd on an annual basis.
Participate in the 2014 Carbon Disclosure Project and aim to improve Participate in the 2015 Carbon our score.
Disclosure Project and aim to maintain a high score.
Capco continues to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project and again achieved an improved rating, scoring 87B in 2014 2013: 70C.
Continue to measure performance using the Global Reporting Initiative.
Capco continues to measure performance using the GRI Framework and updated reporting indicators have been selected.
Appropriately address the new FTSE4Good methodology for 2015 Capco continues to be a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
and maintain position as a constituent.
Continue to support charitable initiatives in communities in which we Continue to support charitable invest, including organisations that support the well-being and development initiatives in communities in which of young people in London with an emphasis on homelessness, education, we invest, including organisations health and sport, and appropriate charities linked to the property industry, that support the well-being and and continue our long-standing involvement with associations that help development of young people in injured service personnel.
London with an emphasis on homelessness, education, health This year the Group donated 202,500 to various charities, particularly those and sport, and appropriate charities benefiting young people.
This included a Company donation of 500 on behalf of every employee at head office and Covent Garden to three charities totalling 61,000. linked to the property industry, continuing our long-standing Capco teamed up with the Sir Simon Milton Foundation in its fundraising efforts to involvement with associations that support a state of-the-art University Technical College which is due to open in help injured service personnel.
In April, two Capco employees ran the London Marathon raising 10,000 and in October a further 37,000 was raised for the Foundation at a quiz night, hosted by Capco.
The Covent Garden estate was one of the main hubs of the annual Poppy Day appeal commemorations and included a First World War Sopwith Camel biplane, a Red Arrows Simulator and a performance by Joss Stone along with uniformed personnel from the Royal Navy, Army and Air Force.
The event at Covent Garden raised 30,000 towards the appeal.
Continue an active programme of dialogue and meetings with the Continue an active programme Companys current and prospective shareholders.
of dialogue and meetings with the Companys current and Our Executive Directors, Chairman and Deputy Chairman engage regularly with prospective shareholders.
The Executive Directors undertook a comprehensive programme of meetings with shareholders during 2014 including road shows in South Africa and the United States.
We also hired a Director of Investor Relations to ensure that we communicate effectively with investors.
com 49 Corporate responsibility continued Environment our creative and holistic approach to place-making protects the environment where our estates are based What we achieved in 2014 Progress 2015 objective Continue to monitor our carbon footprint, broken down into the Commitment to monitor our components of the business.
carbon footprint, broken into the components of the business.
We continued to monitor and measure our carbon footprint and in 2014 the carbon footprint was 11,266 tonnes of CO equivalent.
The carbon footprint reviews the five 2 material greenhouse gas GHG emission sources for Capco.
This includes the combustion of natural gas and fuel, electricity usage, water consumption, waste production and the use of refrigerant for cooling.
The largest contribution came from Earls Court, which made up 49 per cent of the total footprint: Olympia London contributed 35 per cent, Covent Garden 14 per cent and head office 2 per cent.
Monitor the impact of the online trafc marshalling booking system at Increase pre-event bookings Olympia London.
The online vehicle booking system was used by approximately 50 per cent of Actively promote the new vehicle exhibitors and contractors.
The system has been successful in reducing traffic share service and monitor uptake.
queues at peak event times and has provided useful data to assist organisers with their sustainability reporting.
In addition to this, a vehicle share service was launched in October 2014, allowing users to offer or buy spare vehicle capacity.
Participate in the CRC Energy efficiency scheme.
Maintain compliance with the CRC Energy efficiency Scheme.
Phase 1 of the CRC scheme is now complete.
In June 2014, Capco ordered buy-tocomply allowances totalling 144,836.
Phase 2 of the CRC scheme commenced in April 2014 and the Phase 2 Year 1 annual report submission will be submitted to the Environment Agency in July 2015.
Volunteers from Capco helped to build and paint new equipment at Turtles Nursery in Covent Garden 50 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Environment our creative and holistic approach to place-making protects the environment where our estates are based What we achieved in 2014 Progress 2015 objective Aim to maintain a 3 per cent reduction in utilities consumption on a Aim to maintain a 3 per cent like-for-like basis against 2013 gures.
reduction in utilities consumption on a like-for-like basis against Based on like-for-like gures against 2013, Capco has achieved its target by reducing 2014 gures.
utility consumption during 2014 by 12 per cent.
The installation of energy efficient equipment at Capcos assets has increased efficiency in utility consumption.
Continue our work on Energy Performance Certicates EPCs, Determine what measures are particularly those properties within the F G bands and improve their required to improve properties ratings where opportunities arise.
with an EPC of F G. The 2014 EPC target was achieved.
An exercise is underway to identify which of our assets are considered to be at high risk and in need of capital investment.
Any properties that are acquired or let are covered by an EPC if required.
In respect of Lillie Square, work with contractors to ensure waste to landll In 2015 the principal objectives is minimised, targeting 50 per cent plus being recycled or re-used and of the CEMP are to be implemented implement a Construction Environmental Management Plan CEMP.
by the main contractor during the demolition and main construction Level 4 Code compliance and Lifetime Homes compliance to be confirmed phases, including responsible through detailed design of Lillie Square, evidenced through our specication.
materials sourcing and commitment During 2014, the CEMP was agreed with the Local Authority for both the enabling to diverting a minimum of 85 per and main construction activities at Lillie Square.
These have been implemented cent of non-hazardous waste through the enabling works phase.
The first phase of development at Lillie Square remains on track to achieve Level 4 of the Code for Sustainable Homes, as evidenced during the design stage.
In respect of Covent Garden, all future major developments are to meet Ensure design development by the BREEAM for Refurbishment Very Good standard where constraints permit contractor through 2015 is within a Conservation Area and when refurbishing listed buildings.
achieving, in 2017, delivery of: The building contract for Kings Court at Covent Garden was agreed.
It commits the BREEAM excellent for domestic contractor to deliver: refurbishment BREEAM very good for retail BREEAM excellent for domestic refurbishment refurbishment BREEAM very good for retail refurbishment Code for Sustainable Homes Level 4 Code for Sustainable Homes BREEAM very good for retail new build Level 4 BREEAM very good for retail new build www.
com 51 Corporate responsibility continued Environment our creative and holistic approach to place-making protects the environment where our estates are based What we achieved in 2014 Progress 2015 objective Continue to expand our tenant engagement programme on environmental We will expand our engagement issues such as waste reduction, recycling and energy management.
Aim to with occupiers outside the Market increase waste segregation to 55 per cent.
Building on the wider estate.
We continued our engagement with the food and beverage occupiers in Covent We will look to maintain 55 per cent Garden Market.
We meet with around four-five occupiers a month and share the waste segregation.
recycling statistics on a monthly basis to show our progress.
The waste segregation target of 55 per cent was achieved in Covent Garden, despite an increase in waste due to a greater number of food and beverage operations.
At Earls Court, following engagement with local stakeholders, we adopted an engineered solution to the demolition of the bridge, in order to minimise noise to the surrounding areas over the Christmas period.
Olympias conference centre was tted with energy-efficient LED lighting and has signed up to the Governments Clean Air for London scheme.
In executing our major development projects at Covent Garden, we We will aim to achieve a target aim to achieve a target of less than 15 per cent of waste going to landll.
of less than 15 per cent of waste going to landll.
The target is being The target of less than 15 per cent of waste going to landll was achieved on the applied to all major Covent Garden major schemes delivered in Covent Garden The Beecham, The Southampton and 35 King Street.
Monitor metered water usage across our portfolio.
Opportunities to reduce water consumption will be identied and Capco continues to monitor and report on metered water consumption, with data a water action plan established.
included in Capcos carbon footprint.
CORPORATE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, Capco has collated data throughout the year in order to report on the greenhouse gas emissions associated with its operations.
Capco adopts the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised editions, collates data gathered to full the requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, and uses emission factors from DEFRAs 2014 Government Greenhouse Gas GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting to compile the emissions data.
Capco does not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in the consolidated statement.
ENVIRON UK Ltd has provided assurance on the accuracy, completeness and consistency of the GHG emissions data.
GHG emissions data for period 1 January to 31 December Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent tCO e 2 2014 2013 Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions including fuel combustion in owned or controlled boilers and vehicles 1,998 2,907 Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions released into the atmosphere including purchased electricity 9,107 8,241 Total Annual GHG emissions: 11,105 11,148 Intensity ratio: Capco Tonnes of CO e per m of Net Assets 4.43 6.15 2 52 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Covent Garden was a main hub for the annual Poppy Day appeal The sections of the Annual Report which make up the Strategic Report are set out on page 86.
The Strategic Report has been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015.
Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive www.
