Strategic report Governance Financial statements governance matters, and information on At present, Capco has one female Director.
training opportunities and seminars is The Board does not feel that it is Matters considered by the regularly circulated to Directors.
The appropriate to set targets on gender Committee during the year include: Company also arranges periodic briengs diversity as all appointments must be from external advisers, and Directors receive made on merit: however, gender and wider Board and Committee composition regular business updates from the Executive diversity will continue to be taken into including diversity Directors.
Directors may also take consideration when evaluating the skills, Non-executive Director independent advice at the Companys knowledge and experience desirable to ll recruitment expense where they feel this is appropriate.
Non-executive Director time Diversity Board composition and succession commitments Diversity is important to Capco across the The Committee will continue to focus Board evaluation described on Group and we recognise the business on the recruitment of an additional Nonpage 59 benets of employing people with varied executive Director in the early part of 2015, Committee terms of reference outlooks.
We are keen to develop female and expects to make a recommendation to the Directors skills and training talent and the ratio of women to men within Board in due course.
The Committee will also opportunities Capcos senior management team is 1:1. continue to consider Board succession and Further information on our people practices, composition, and will make recommendations including our learning and development to the Board where appropriate.
strategies, is contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 47 and 48.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees the Groups Corporate Responsibility CR initiatives and ensures that they are appropriately aligned with corporate strategy.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report which explains the progress we made against our CR targets in 2014 can be found on pages 44 to 53 and a summary of the matters that the Committee considered during the year is set out below.
Ian Henderson Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, 26 February 2015 Members: Ian Henderson Chairman Ian Hawksworth Ian Henderson, Chairman of the Corporate Ian Durant Demetra Pinsent Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee is Matters considered by the chaired by Ian Henderson and its members are listed above.
The Committee met four Committee during the year include: times during 2014.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 60.
CR reporting The Companys CR strategy Updates on Group CR activity Charitable donations and spend against budget Brieng on environmental matters at Lillie Square and the Earls Court demolition and waste management plan Update on new legislation www.
