Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts CORPORATE, SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT A FOCUS ON DELIVERING SUSTAINABILITY THE GROUPS STRATEGIC AND ORGANISATIONAL COMMITMENT TO A SUSTAINABLE ETHOS OF CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IS KNOWN TO ALL STAKEHOLDERS.
The Directors actively encourage its integration into the business by employees across the Group.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT Our commitment to setting high standards throughout our development and refurbishment projects continues to earn Our focus on sustainability remains a key element in the way us recognition.
We have achieved 2 SKA Gold and 2 SKA in which we conduct the activities of the Group, with our Silver ratings and 3 BREEAM Very Good ratings.
This ongoing commitment to sustainability in a corporate, social provides efficient and sustainable space for our occupiers, and environmental setting.
whilst reducing their energy costs.
During the past twelve months we have continued to make We have recently added to our sustainability team, enhancing significant progress in our energy reduction programmes.
our ability to deliver sustainability throughout the Group.
For example, under our lighting programme we have converted 60% of all landlord areas in the French portfolio and 25% of Fredrik Widlund all landlord areas in the UK portfolio to LED lighting.
Chief Executive Officer We have installed three additional solar photovoltaic PV 4 March 2015 arrays in the UK which, together with the existing array, now accounts for 1% of our annual energy demands.
We intend to increase this in 2015 with a further five solar PV arrays.
We also achieved a 10.9% Group-wide energy reduction in our managed buildings as a result of energy efficiency projects and active property management.
I am also pleased to report that across all UK buildings we diverted 100% of our waste from landfill to renewable sources, which helps us to minimise our impact on the environment.
We encourage our staff to engage with and support the communities in which we invest and are active, and I am proud that this year we have been involved in 12 social and charitable events, contributing over 28,000.
29 CORPORATE, SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED KEY AREAS OF SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY GREEN CHARTER The Sustainability Green Charter the Charter was set up to make the most effective use of our duties, powers and in 2011 to promote our sustainability aspirations through resources to minimise the impact of our actions on the continuous improvements which can influence and mitigate environment, and to enhance the environment, our impact on the environment, the local community, the community and economy wherever possible economy and key stakeholders.
The Group undertakes: to monitor our progress by carrying out regular to mitigate our impact on climate change by reducing assessments against the key actions of the Charter our carbon footprint to use our Charter to influence the behaviour of our to be accountable for our performance relating to climate partners, tenants, suppliers and other stakeholders, change by reporting regularly against measurable indicators to promote the principles on which it is based PORTFOLIO SUSTAINABILITY Acquisition Development Disposal Operations The Charter underpins our core business strategy through the Operations We work closely with all our customers to manage asset lifecycle.
our overall impact on the environment.
We offer a range of services which benefit our customers in different ways, such Acquisition We commit significant time and resource to as improving the energy efficiency of Landlord areas, environmental due diligence when assessing where to invest customer engagement in sustainability projects and energy in a building.
We seek to identify all environmental risk reports for each customer.
Where we control energy usage we factors, including physical and legislative risks, that may provide purchasing strategies to mitigate excessive energy affect the operations of the asset or its value.
As part of our procurement processes, we also Development Through our development and refurbishment seek to ensure that our contractors consider the environment.
programmes, we set the highest standards in environmental Disposal Where we decide to dispose of an asset, we help the efficiency.
We aim to provide better buildings for the future, purchaser understand how the asset operates so as to ensure going beyond standard requirements.
We also believe in continued environmental and sustainability performance.
working with all stakeholders within our communities to help meet local needs, while considering urban biodiversity and the wider infrastructure.
30 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts YEAR BY NUMBERS 10.9% 7.2% 100% We achieved a 10.9% We reduced our We diverted 100% of UK office reduction in electricity carbon CO2e by 7.2% waste from landfill across the Group across the Group 36% 1% 1.6m 36% of landlord areas have 1% of our UK electricity We invested over 1.6m in LED lighting across the Group needs comes from Energy Efficiency & Low on-site generation Carbon projects 4.5 years 28k 9 years The average return on We participated in CLS has being reporting investment was 4.5 years 12 social charitable on sustainability in the events raising over 28k annual report for 9 years GRESB CDP SKA Ratings BREEAM Scored 56 238th out of 617 Scored Grade D 69 2 Gold and 2 Silver ratings 3 buildings achieved companies globally for floor refurbishments Very Good new construction 31 CORPORATE, SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYEES 2014 ACHIEVEMENTS The Directors believe that the Groups employees are a source Our achievements against our 2014 key performance targets of competitive advantage, and recognise that continued and are set out below: sustained improvement in the performance of the Group Corporate depends on its ability to attract, motivate and retain employees of a high calibre.
The Group is committed to the Disclosed the Groups environmental performance principle of equal opportunity in employment, and seeks to under the GRESB sustainability benchmarking, ensure that no employee or applicant is treated less scoring 56, which places the Group 238th out of favourably on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, 617 companies globally.
colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, disability Completed 12 projects in collaboration with our or sexual orientation nor is disadvantaged by conditions or occupiers in order to improve the efficiency of our requirements, including age limits, which cannot be justified assets and reduce their impact on the environment.
Entry into, and progression within, the Group are solely determined by the job criteria, personal aptitude and First year of participation in the Carbon Disclosure competence.
These policies have worked effectively Project.
Social It is the Groups policy to apply best practice in the Actively supported many community projects such as employment of disabled people.
Full and fair consideration is investing in a new community Christmas fair within given both to every application for employment from disabled Vauxhall, and assisted in the design and production persons whose aptitude and skills can be utilised in the of history books for local London schools.
business, and to their training and career development.
This includes, wherever possible, the retraining and retention Proactive members of the Vauxhall One Business of staff who become disabled during their employment.
All staff are informed of matters concerning their interest as Awarded RICS certification, allowing our employees to employees and the financial and economic factors affecting gain relevant property experience and qualifications.
Established management communication channels are supplemented by direct presentations to staff by Provided experience and research project Directors to explain developments of particular significance at opportunities to six people ranging from school least twice a year.
sixth formers to a post-graduate student.
Sponsored the Totally Thames HippopoThames, to HEALTH & SAFETY create awareness of the regeneration of the Nine Elms It is a primary concern of the Board that the Company Vauxhall area.
manages its activities in such a manner as to ensure that the Raised charitable donations of 12,360 by direct health and safety of its employees, customers, advisors, contributions and events, supporting charities such as contractors and the general public is not compromised.
Race for life, Land Aid, Thames Reach, Motor Neuron As part of this process the Company employs specialist Disease and The Poppy Appeal.
accredited advisers to advise on all health and safety matters Environmental relating to the Group.
The Company also operates a Health and Safety Committee, which covers issues related to the Achieved over 7% and 31% reduction on electricity and UK portfolio and its employees.
Chaired by the Company gas usage, respectively, in the UK.
Secretary, the Committee comprises House Managers, Asset Achieved 7.2% reduction in CO emissions across the 2 Managers and advisors, and reports to the Chief Executive Group, exceeding our target of 5%.
The Chief Executive Officer also attends Health and Safety Committee meetings.
All regions maintain and follow Gained 2 gold and 2 silver awards for refurbishments local health and safety policies and report issues to the using the SKA framework.
This reporting process has worked Achieved 100% diversion from landfill across all our effectively throughout the year and has ensured ongoing UK assets: of this 62% was recycled and 38% was sent compliance with health and safety legislation.
to Waste Energy plants or Anaerobic Digestion.
BUSINESS ETHICS The Board recognises the importance of the Companys responsibilities as an ethical employer and views matters in which the Company interacts with the community both socially and economically as the responsibility of the whole Board.
Following the enactment of the Bribery Act 2010, the Company implemented a suitable policy which further demonstrated its commitment to business ethics.
32 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts REDUCTION IN ELECTRICITY USAGE ENERGY PERFORMANCE kWh 2014 2013 No.
Corporate Improve our external reporting performance under GRESB and CDP sustainability benchmarking schemes 2013 VS. 2014 PERFORMANCE % reduction achieved Integrate Group-wide sustainability reporting processes to support its sustainability strategy UK France Germany Sweden CLS Group 5.00% Social 0.00% Continue to improve our reputation and value to local stakeholders -5.00% through community involvement and engagement -10.00% Invest in sustainability awareness across our staff and occupiers -15.00% Environmental -20.00% Reduce by 5% year-on-year energy consumption and by 10% for water consumption in the managed like-for-like portfolio in 2015.
-25.00% Divert 100% of waste from landfill in the managed like-for-like -30.00% portfolio in 2015 based on the previous year.
-35.00% Recycle 70% of all UK waste collected from the managed like-for-like portfolio in 2015 Electricity Gas Water 33 UK France Germany Sweden UK France Germany Sweden UK France Germany Sweden CORPORATE, SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED EMISSIONS REPORTING AND METHODOLOGY CLS Holdings plc is a quoted company and so is required to The Groups emissions are largely from the multi-let buildings include greenhouse gas emissions in its Directors Report under managed by the Group.
We do not report on properties managed the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports by joint venture partners, third-party managed residential sites, Regulations 2013.
The reporting period for greenhouse gas buildings let on a full repairing and insuring basis or developments.
emissions is from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014, which is The Group also recognise that each region uses its own agreed consistent with previous years emissions reporting.
calculated measure of floor areas in order to benchmark its For continuity of data and ease of administration the same energy and carbon emissions.
methodology is used for the Directors Report.
All emissions for Scope one emissions are mostly attributable space and water which CLS Holdings plc and its subsidiaries are invoiced and have heating using gas: scope two emissions are attributable to operational control are reported, including all scope one and cooling and ventilation of office space, water heating, small power scope two emissions for which the Group is responsible.
our mandatory reporting requirement to report carbon emissions The offices at 86 Bondway UK HQ have been reported separately by the use of the EPRA Best Practice Recommendations for as they are the largest centre of the Groups operations.
The tables below follow their recommended format.
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE ABSOLUTE MEASURES Broad Issue Type Sustainability Performance Measure UK HQ UK France Germany Sweden Units Energy Total energy consumption 88,666 9,123,921 2,804,640 1,020,470 5,409,638 kWh from electricity [G4-EN3] Total energy consumption 00 Under Under 161,930 kWh from district heating and review review cooling [G4-EN3] Total energy consumption 0 3,779,052 577,619 5,222,960 0 kWh from fuels [G4-EN3] Greenhouse gas Total direct emissions 0 699 107 966 0 metric reporting Scope 1 [G4-EN15] tonnes CO2e Total indirect emissions 48 4,856 183 511 100 metric Scope 2 [G4-EN16] tonnes CO2e Water Total water withdrawal 1,189 34,072 19,664 29,856 31,319 cubic by source [G4-EN8] metres Waste Total weight of waste by 13.5 816 Under Under 29 metric disposal route [G4-EN23] review review tonnes Percentage of waste by 41% 63% Under Under Incineration Proportion disposal route Recycled Recycled review review 48% by weight % 59% Waste 2% to Recycling to Energy Anaerobic 35% Digestion 35% Waste Biological to Energy treatment 14% Landfill 2% Hazardous Waste 1% 34 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE INTENSITY MEASURES Intensity Broad Issue Type Sustainability Performance Measure UK HQ UK France Germany Sweden Indicator 2 Energy Building energy intensity 100 210 68 10 118 kWh m year [G4-CRE3] Greenhouse Greenhouse gas intensity from 53 128 17 12.7 2 kg CO e 2 2 gas reporting building energy [G4-CRE3] m year 3 2 Water Building water intensity 1.32 0.480 0.609 0.227 0.681 m m year [G4-CRE3] SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE INTENSITY INDICATOR PER COUNTRY CLS Office UK France Germany Sweden 2 2 2 2 2 m Gross internal area m Floor area matched m Common m Net m Net against energy Landlord Area Lettable Area Lettable Area CASE STUDIES Spring Mews SE11 The scheme comprises a hotel, student accommodation and office space, within one interlinked building.
The scheme was designed and built to BREEAM Very good standards.
The core buildings are served by a central Energy Centre which has a mixture of low carbon and renewable technologies: a ground source heat pump, combined heat and power plant and photovoltaic arrays.
The Energy Centre has been designed to make the scheme as energy efficient as possible through an integrated heating network.
All renewable electricity generated on site is recycled into the electric load of the Energy Centre, reducing energy consumption and costs.
The hotel and student accommodation were fitted with LED lighting throughout the communal areas and individual rooms.
Falcon House, Hounslow A 20kW photovoltaic array was installed on the roof of Falcon House in August 2014.
The system, which generates electricity from the sun, consists of 31 individual 2 panels giving a total generation area of 77m and covers approximately 20% of the roof of the building.
The installation is estimated to reduce the buildings annual carbon dioxide emissions by nearly 9 tonnes and generate 17,000 kWh per year.
The electricity generated by the photovoltaic array will be used to reduce the electricity demand of the building, which would otherwise have been consumed from the National Grid.
Energy savings will be passed on to occupiers by reducing the buildings service charge costs.
