STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility A full corporate social responsibility policy statement is included on our website, but key areas are summarised below Employees ensure that employees are aware of the Groups policies on insider trading, bribery We recognise that our employees are Striving to be a good citizen and inappropriate gifts, money laundering our greatest asset and key to continued The Group strives to be a good and whistle-blowing: and growth and success and, as such, we corporate citizen.
Through are committed to providing careers and encourage a harmonious working its managers and its people, working environments in which our people environment with zero tolerance to Countrywide is committed to can achieve to their fullest potential.
bullying or to any form of harassment promoting protection of the linked to an individuals sex or other Development and training environment: supporting personal characteristics.
charities and local communities: Developing future talent is fundamental to Countrywide.
Talent management and Communication promoting equal opportunities: leadership development programmes are ensuring safe and efficient We recognise the importance of good operating for promising senior management communication with our employees and working practices: and working within the business, whilst we continue to have continued to keep them informed with suppliers who uphold recruit and invest in trainee and graduate on matters affecting them as employees.
talent to help meet our future management To support this we have a Group-wide requirements.
New apprenticeship and newsletter, Inside Countrywide, as well graduate recruitment schemes have been as specific publications to keep our implemented in several divisions of the Group, Gender diversity employees up to date and informed.
alongside City and Guilds accredited training The newsletter focuses on communicating Directors for employees within our retail operations, operational changes, examples of best including the opportunity of sponsorship to practice and highlight specific sales activities, achieve recognised professional qualifications 3 success stories and teamwork around the that are relevant to our sector.
Employees can access our intranet specific case studies are included within our to obtain other general information on the 6 operational reviews.
We provide full visibility Group.
Our second Group-wide employee of our customer facing employees including engagement survey was conducted in their levels of training and experience to June 2014.
Feedback from the initial Senior management our customers and prospective customers consultation in September 2013 was rolled through our online Register of Property Agents into a continual improvement programme 12 www.
The Register and during the period employee engagement provides assurance that our estate agency rates increased by 4% to 71% and further employees all meet the requisite standards 51 work is ongoing to continually improve the of professionalism that our customers will experience of our people.
Employees are expect when we advise them and represent also encouraged to discuss operational their interests during one of the most issues with their line management and to Employees significant transactions that they are suggest ways to improve performance likely to undertake in their lifetime.
6,298 We: Our people are also encouraged to become shareholders in the Company.
The Group provide clear and fair terms of 5,273 Share Incentive Plan SIP has been running employment for our employees: successfully since its inception in October provide clean, healthy and safe Female Male 2013.
It is open to all employees with more workingconditions: than 18 months continuous service and the Company gives one matching share for have a fair remuneration policy everywhere every two shares purchased by the employee we operate: within the maximum investment terms strive for equal opportunities for all established by HMRC.
Senior management comprises employees with present and potential employees: responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Group or a strategically Equal opportunities encourage employees to develop skills significant part of it.
Directors of subsidiary and progress in their careers: We are committed to a policy of equal companies are included only to the extent that the subsidiary is significant in the context of the opportunity and diversity in employment do not employ underage employees: Group as a whole.
and recognise that this is essential to ensuring the success and growth of the organisation.
38 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION To this end, we make every effort to select, Human rights to take responsibility for the maintenance recruit, train and promote the best candidates and revision of our environmental policy, While the Group is accountable to investors, for the job: to treat all employees and which is reviewed on a regular basis, in order we take into account the interest of all our applicants fairly, regardless of race, gender, to set environmental objectives and targets stakeholders including our employees, our marital status, age, nationality, ethnic origin, for continual improvement, as we recognise customers and our suppliers, as well as the religious belief, sexual orientation or disability: the need for sustainable development.
local community and the environment in and to ensure that no employee suffers which we operate.
The following initiatives are in place: harassment or intimidation.
Countrywides reputation is one of its key We use paper that is made from agricultural Employment opportunities are available to assets and, as a major player in the UK waste and not wood, holds the full FSC disabled persons in accordance with their property services sector, adhering to the accreditation and is compliant with abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with highest standards of integrity, personal ISO9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and other employees.
If an employee becomes conduct, ethics and fairness is deemed OHSAS 80001:2007. disabled during employment, we make every to be of vital importance.
effort to enable them to continue employment We launched local initiatives to ensure Due to the regulatory requirements in the by making reasonable adjustments in the branches recycle office waste and our UK we have judged that human rights are workplace and retraining for alternative Head Office recycles all waste and uses not a material risk for the business.
We do, work where necessary.
We are working in however, work closely with our third party partnership with a waste management external suppliers to ensure their human Information security provider with the aim to increase our rights and ethics policies are aligned with recycling volumes to zero waste to landfill.
We have achieved and maintain the those of Countrywide.
Our support function ISO 27001 accreditation in our major Employees are encouraged to dispose in India, WNS, has a foundation called business to business operating divisions ofall paper waste in secure bins, 100% WNS Cares Foundation.
It takes care of and aspire to operate in line with the ofwhich is recycled.
providing education and a lot of other facilities International Standard for Information and benefits to the children in the society.
Recycling of used printer cartridges and Security Management, ISO 27001, in This foundation exists in all the countries mobile phones.
95% of our toner all of our major retail operations.
WNS operates from and is actively involved cartridges are recycled in partnership A dedicated Group Information Security in child education.
More information on withour printer suppliers.
Manager is responsible for the strategic the foundation can be found by visiting Epayslips were introduced for all Group management of information security, www.
employees in 2010, which reduced our including risk management, together with carbon footprint and print and postal costs.
implementation and enforcement of the Environmental matters Information Security Policy.
Environmental savings make good business With effect from July 2011, we opted to sense.
Our primary objective is to minimise ensure that all newly ordered company Charitable giving our carbon footprint and any negative impact vehicles had a CO emission of no greater 2 Countrywide supports a Workplace Charitable we have on the environment.
This was further reduced Giving scheme so that employees can donate over 40,000 bags of rubbish during 2014. toa cap of 130gsm on the introduction to their favourite charities tax efficiently ofa new fleet policy in January 2013.
We are committed to the following: through payroll deduction, donating over In 2011 we launched a Cycle to Work 19,000 during 2014.
Countrywide also to meet or exceed the requirements of scheme, in order that employees can tax supports two national charities Shelter relevant legislative, regulatory and efficiently purchase bicycles for cycling helping the homeless and Cancer environmental codes of practice: towork.
to identify, reduce and dispose of waste During 2013 we introduced a half The subsidiary businesses are also arising from our operations in a manner hourlymeter pilot to monitor and reduce encouraged to support causes within that minimises harm to the environment electricity usage and also commenced their local communities and employees and prevents pollution of land, air and water: avoltage optimisation pilot to reduce from across the country participated in to reduce the consumption of energy and energy consumption.
We operate water and use renewable and or in local markets: our people are local For our greenhouse gas emissions, please recyclable resources wherever practicable: and our brands are local, making our see the directors report on page 70. contribution to the local community an to encourage our suppliers and important part of our charitable giving.
subcontractors to implement good environmental practices and procedures During 2014 we have given over 80,000 which support our own objectives to local charities and causes.
andtargets: and ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We are committed to supporting best practice incorporate governance The Board provides leadership to the Group and is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company.
It sets the strategy and oversees its implementation, ensuring that acceptable risks are taken and appropriate governance structures and controls are in place.
Corporate governance 41 Letter from the chairman 42 Board of directors 44 Corporate governance statement 46 Report of the Nomination Committee 48 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 54 Directors remuneration report 68 Directors report 71 Directors responsibilities statement 40 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
