34 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Our people, tenants Our people The foundation of our business and partners is our people and we aspire to be the best team in residential.
The sustainability of our business depends on positive relationships with our stakeholders, including our people, tenants andpartners.
Introduction customers as well as our future customers Investing in our employees In addition to being a property business, and tenants.
and ensuring they are we are also strongly committed to being Our increasing emphasis on a people focussed business.
Our strength understanding our customers needs and engaged, motivated and comes from the relationships that we have building our business to focus on meeting wellinformed gives us the with each person and organisation with current and future needs has been a whom we work.
We regard our tenants major theme for the business over the competitive advantage and our partners as customers.
past year and will continue in the years thathelps keep us at the As a long term investor in homes and ahead.
Our efforts have taken place on communities, we know that it is critical many fronts.
to build and maintain open and positive We have partnered with the leading They are the key to our relationships.
Such relationships are with market research organisation, Mindfolio, success and the driving our tenants, whose homes are our assets, in order to gain greater insight into the the communities in which we invest and experiences and expectations of our forcebehind moving the operate, our suppliers and our partners.
Specifically, we research business forward.
One of our core values is our long term what they would like to see in design approach, and ensuring we have a strong and management on our new build to and sustainable future requires us to earn rent developments.
In addition, we have a licence to operate, which is granted increased the surveys we undertake with Achievements in 2014 implicitly by our stakeholders.
If we ignore existing customers so that we can better our key stakeholders, and their concerns, understand their experiences.
It is therefore no It is equally important that everyone surprise that maintaining and nurturing in Grainger shares this customer focus and training and briefing these relationships is a key focus in understands how we are putting this focus 80 sessions were held for staff our business.
Accordingly, we have started Our focus on engagement and a programme of training and testing, customer service is ever increasing as our particularly for our front-line staff, aimed business evolves and grows.
Over the years at measuring and consequently improving work experience we will continue to invest in understanding customer service within Grainger.
21 the needs and experiences of our existing placements provided Strategic report Governance Financials 35 7 1 6 Employee profile 2 Age No.
65 years 4 282 Supporting our people We also focus our attention on those engaging way is through the use of real In addition to the specific focus on the entering business at a younger age and case studies from around the business to customer, we continue to invest heavily we are pleased to have supported 21 demonstrate how our Company values and in developing the skills and careers of individuals for work experience placements business initiatives come to life in real day to our employees.
and our Graduate Recruitment Programme day scenarios.
This year we also focused on Over the year we have held more than continues to be highly sought after with utilising video more to discuss our Company 80 training and briefing sessions for staff, more than 200 applicants for the two values as well as highlighting each of the covering technical, professional, systems, vacancies we have annually.
respective job roles and responsibilities of project management, finance, presentation every senior manager across the business.
and negotiation, media and health and Engaging staff to support our strategic priorities We also use our Corporate safety skills.
Where possible, we use the The best way to support positive business Responsibility programme as a way to expertise of colleagues within the business growth is through a motivated and informed engage employees, letting them choose a to share their knowledge with others workforce.
In order to achieve this, our charity of their choice when volunteering, through a series of Lunch & Learn events.
staff engagement activities centre around or we support them in their personal Leadership and management development telling our Companys story in the most charitable endeavours through a charity is a key part of our ongoing effort to invest compelling and relevant way possible, match funding programme.
in the continued and ongoing success of and bringing it to life through personal our business into the future.
We leverage off an active Employee profile in this area includes coaching, leadership events programme, including conferences, Role Male Female Total profiling and development planning, roadshows and town hall meetings.
Non-executive management training, and specialist Each year, we hold a strategy Directors 5 2 7 business programmes including at Insead, conference for the senior management Grainger Trust NonLondon Business School and IREBS Real team where we discuss and debate our executive directors 1 1 2 Estate Academy in Germany.
Following this, each Executive directors 3 0 3 Further education is always an senior manager discusses key findings from Senior managers 29 10 39 important part of our talent development the strategy conference with each of their Managers 51 43 94 programme, and this year we supported teams.
This cascading process is followed 12% of staff members 32 in acquiring up by a roadshow hosted by our CEO and Associate 17 41 58 professional qualifications.
other executives for all staff across our Support 9 59 68 offices in the UK and Germany.
Graduates 2 2 4 One way we have found success in Off-site 4 3 7 terms of communicating to staff in an 121 161 282
