34 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Our people, tenants Our people The foundation of our business and partners is our people and we aspire to be the best team in residential.
The sustainability of our business depends on positive relationships with our stakeholders, including our people, tenants andpartners.
Introduction customers as well as our future customers Investing in our employees In addition to being a property business, and tenants.
and ensuring they are we are also strongly committed to being Our increasing emphasis on a people focussed business.
Our strength understanding our customers needs and engaged, motivated and comes from the relationships that we have building our business to focus on meeting wellinformed gives us the with each person and organisation with current and future needs has been a whom we work.
We regard our tenants major theme for the business over the competitive advantage and our partners as customers.
past year and will continue in the years thathelps keep us at the As a long term investor in homes and ahead.
Our efforts have taken place on communities, we know that it is critical many fronts.
to build and maintain open and positive We have partnered with the leading They are the key to our relationships.
Such relationships are with market research organisation, Mindfolio, success and the driving our tenants, whose homes are our assets, in order to gain greater insight into the the communities in which we invest and experiences and expectations of our forcebehind moving the operate, our suppliers and our partners.
Specifically, we research business forward.
One of our core values is our long term what they would like to see in design approach, and ensuring we have a strong and management on our new build to and sustainable future requires us to earn rent developments.
In addition, we have a licence to operate, which is granted increased the surveys we undertake with Achievements in 2014 implicitly by our stakeholders.
If we ignore existing customers so that we can better our key stakeholders, and their concerns, understand their experiences.
It is therefore no It is equally important that everyone surprise that maintaining and nurturing in Grainger shares this customer focus and training and briefing these relationships is a key focus in understands how we are putting this focus 80 sessions were held for staff our business.
Accordingly, we have started Our focus on engagement and a programme of training and testing, customer service is ever increasing as our particularly for our front-line staff, aimed business evolves and grows.
Over the years at measuring and consequently improving work experience we will continue to invest in understanding customer service within Grainger.
21 the needs and experiences of our existing placements provided
