About Us 01 05 33 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Corporate Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 Responsibility EMPLOYEES AND HUMAN RIGHTS CARBON REPORTING The Board is committed to protecting the human rights We are continually creating efficiencies in our energy use of its employees and contractors.
The Groups focus is on and are working towards a reduction in our CO emissions 2 creating and perpetuating a working environment which is by trying to lower energy consumption.
In order to effect free from harassment, bullying and unlawful discrimination this change we are challenging the behaviour of all and to ensure that all employees and contractors are treated employees in relation to their energy consumption, with with dignity and respect.
Bellway complies with the Guiding specific campaigns to encourage electronic equipment to Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the be switched off when not in use and turning the heating United Nations Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework, down in offices and showhomes.
and has in place an Equality Policy and a Bullying and The Group has reported on all of the emission sources Harassment Policy which make clear to all employees required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and workers the behaviour that is required of them at and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Employees are able to use the Groups confidential year of reporting under these regulations and in future years whistleblowing helpline or its Grievance Procedure to raise comparative figures will be provided.
Bellway considers that the risk of Total emissions abuse of human rights within the business is low.
tonnes of carbon dioxide 1 Category equivalent tCO2e DIVERSITY Scope 1 Fuel and gas which includes diesel and petrol used on-site and in cars on The Groups workforce at 31 July 2014 consisted of the Group business 9,335 following male and female employees: Male Male Female Female Total workforce Scope 2 Electricity 3,509 no.
% Total emissions 12,844 Board directors 6 86 1 14 7 1 Emissions intensity: Senior managers 81 85 14 15 95 5 tCO e per Bellway home construction 1.87 2 Other employees 1,400 72 541 28 1,941 95 2 tCO e per Bellway employee 6.56 2 Total 1,487 73 556 27 2,043 100 Notes: 1. tCO e has the meaning given in section 93 2 of the Climate Change Act 2008.
2 The Group has a balanced workforce in terms of experience 2.
Based on the average number of employees during the year.
Methodology SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY INTERESTS Bellway has used the DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines to collate data, and to convert energy Behaving responsibly and operating a sustainable business consumption into emissions has used the 2013 Government that considers and addresses the social, economic and Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors forCompany Reporting.
environmental issues that concern our stakeholders makes eminently good business sense.
We remain committed to The following sources of emissions were excluded from improving our environmental credentials and will continue to this report: report progress annually.
Further information can be found 1.
Gas and electricity from part-exchange properties due on our corporate responsibility website: www.
co. uk to immateriality and difficulty in accurately reporting and .
Emissions from combined heat and power units which are operated at sites, due to difficulty in acquiring this data.
Below: Further information on Bellways approach to corporate Hampton Grange, responsibility is available on its website at www.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 34 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued The following structure has been put CORPORATE in place to achieve these commitments.
RESPONSIBILITY POLICY To maintain focus on corporate Through sustainable construction responsibility, the Chief Executive is we aim to create new communities responsible for ensuring the policy is and lasting environments.
Using our adhered to and reports to the Board knowledge and skills, and in consultation and external stakeholders on our with our partners, we aim to enhance performance and progress.
In this, the environment in which we work.
the Chief Executive is supported by an in-house corporate responsibility Bellway believes that its reputation group which includes senior employees iscritical to the creation of long-term from a cross-section of disciplines who value for its shareholders and we are responsible for the development recognise that financial success is and review of policy.
They in turn reinforced by our behaviour beyond delegate to managers within each thebalance sheet.
of the divisions who are responsible Through Bellways commitment for implementation.
tocorporate responsibility we: Bellway is committed to reporting engage with a wide range of annually on its approach to corporate stakeholders, including shareholders, responsibility and has established key employees, customers, government performance indicators to enable others and communities that we affect, to judge our performance.
This policy Above: thereby improving internal and does not replace existing policies Bellway employees Ramped up the Red external awareness.
in relation to environmental issues for the British Heart Foundation comply with all relevant legislation and health and safety, but has been as a minimum standard.
Opposite: developed to work in conjunction with Pupils from Runnymede St Edwards School them.
All policies are available on the work towards recognised good helping with tree planting at our site at Bellway website www.
co. uk practice in sustainable sourcing Bellefield, West Derby, Liverpool and are reviewed annually.
treat all employees fairly and invest intraining for the medium and long term to realise their potential.
provide a healthy and safe environment in which to work through an effective health and safetymanagement system.
recognise and respond to the challenges and opportunities that arepresented by climate change.
invest in the communities in which we developin a way that contributes tolocal community needs.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 35 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Bellway is one of the largest housebuilding groups in the UK.
The housebuilding process affects the environment by the use of land and consumption of resources throughout the development process.
It is our objective to ensure that, atthe conclusion of a development, an attractive and desirable new environment has been created that will be sustainable over time.
Recognising that these considerations will be balanced against any associated cost we will: manage our environmental footprint and aim to enhance our performance in areas where we operate, particularly in relation to energy and waste.
minimise any harmful effects on the give consideration to environmental Approval of the Strategic Report environment and where possible, aspects in the selection and The Strategic Report was approved by seek environmental enhancements, procurement of land for development, the Board of Directors and signed on concentrating on areas where there is including implications for biodiversity its behalf by most room for improvement.
aim to meet and where practicable, try to meet and where possible, exceed all relevant environmental exceed government targets for the legislation and regulations.
Ted Ayres set specific environmental objectives seek to influence the design of sites, Chief Executive and periodically review progress housing and appliances to minimise 13 October 2014 against these objectives to ensure the effects on both the natural and that Bellways environmental aims and built environment.
their importance are communicated throughout the Group, including to endeavour to provide environmental appropriate sub-contractors, suppliers benefits and minimise nuisance and other parties and that a copy of arising from construction activities and this policy statement is displayed in all preventing pollution on development Bellway sites and offices.
consider the role that Bellway can give consideration to environmental play in helping to contribute to the issues within our corporate functions principles of sustainable development and everyday business decisionwithin the UK.
recognise and respond to the challenges and opportunities that are presented by climate change.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
