AS WELL AS BEING THE LARGEST PROVIDER OF PURPOSE BUILT STUDENT ACCOMMODATION IN THE UK WE ASPIRE TO REINFORCE OUR POSITION AS THE MOSTTRUSTED BRAND INTHE SECTOR.
In 2014, living with Unite Students got even better with the announcement of our new purpose Home for Success.
Home for Success is a 40 million two year investment into our business that will enable us to provide students with a home that helps them achieve more from their time at University, whether defined as academic achievement, personal growth or employability.
We are channelling our investment into four key areas of the business: physical, digital, service and people.
The investment will bring tangible benefits to our students, and reflects the desire of our employees to make a positive contribution to students time at University.
THE MOST TRUSTED BRAND IN THE SECTOR 18 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information HOME FOR SUCCESS The physical condition of our buildings has been improved through our more youthful visual identity.
The design won gold in the Brand Design category at the London Design Awards.
This visual identity has been implemented at all of our properties.
We installed LED lighting in 31 properties, improving students' experience and reducing our carbon footprint and operating costs.
We refreshed 25 reception and common rooms with our new look and feel.
The remaining properties will be completed in the next 18 months.
As part of our improvements to service we introduced free fortnightly cleaning in all kitchens and living areas in our shared flats.
Students ranked cleanliness as one of the top three most important considerations when choosing somewhere to live in our 2014 student experience survey, Students Matter.
51,100 KITCHENS CLEANED IN 2014 We made significant investment in our digital offering: Upgrading to a minimum high speed 20MB Wi-Fi in all our properties Launching our new student website, providing an improved user experience and adding Chinese language content Launching World of Unite, our exclusive app helping students meet new friends and build connections before they arrive We are also investing in our people, introducing a range of flexible benefits and new development programmes in 2015, and we have signed up to the Living Wage.
Our Home for Success plans were tested and validated by our 900 strong student panel.
This work is ongoing and we will continue to invest in our business to ensure that we continue to THE MOST have the most trusted brand in the sector.
TRUSTED BRAND IN THE SECTOR The Tannery, Leeds The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
