Corporate responsibility continued Committed to lasting relationships.
Our approach is to engage with all stakeholders ona regular basis in order to build solid relationships that will stand the test of time.
Stakeholder engagement The risks The The opportunities kk We recognise that the business case kk We believe that engagement longterm growth and We believe that we with our stakeholders helps us sustainability of our company canonly remain the to identify further opportunities requires us to view what we to improve our business as do from the outside in and to leader in our field if we we evaluate that outside recognise the risks associated behave as if we were inperspective.
with touch points with our number two.
Our risk analysis reflects this see page 24.
Understanding our different stakeholder groups While each of our identified stakeholder groups have different interests and issues, we recognise the importance Building of them all in helping us to build a sustainable business.
We listen carefully relationships to their concerns and needs, and work with them to make sure that the way we to stand the run Berendsen delivers the optimum test of time.
Next steps and priorities for 2015 We will continue to engage with our stakeholders and to take further independent reviews of our performance.
In particular in 2015, we plan to: kk Continue the development of our customer satisfaction survey tools: kk Undertake our second companywide employee engagement survey: and kk Our nonexecutive directors will meet with key investors without executive management to discuss their perspective on their investment.
34 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Customers Customers are at the heart of our business and through our service staff we are regularly taking their views of our 90% service and the ways we can innovate customer retention rate on their behalf.
We also independently collect customer satisfaction surveys.
Employees Our business has many channels to engage with employees, including whole company employee surveys, which are conducted every two years.
q See People Pages 3641 Investors Executive management meets regularly with investors and potential investors and receives regular input from its brokers and advisors which it shares with the wider board.
See Governance report Pages 60106 q Flat Workwear Suppliers The investments we are making in our 15% central procurement and supply chain Big suppliers function provide greater opportunity 45% 55% Small to work with our suppliers more suppliers Big suppliers strategically in the longer term as we 85% Small seek to rationalise our supplier base.
suppliers Partners and the wider industry We have a high coverage in most of the markets we operate in and this allows us to engage, through trade associations, with the wider textile services industry on shared issues around legislation, technical standards and safety.
Our commitment to this industry and the integrity of our dealing often provides opportunities to acquire local companies when the owners seek to retire or exit.
Local communities We are very conscious that our plants are part of local communities and that our workforce is drawn from this local environment.
We actively engage to 1 ensure that our impact is not adverse, Complaint reported that we can, from our business to provide and resolved further opportunities for employment and we often invest modesty in local initiative.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 35
