Corporate responsibility Our strategic approach.
Corporate responsibility is integral to Berendsen.
It impacts our longterm strategy and our ability to win and retain business and we continue to work hard to integrate it into the daily actions and decisions that we take.
We pride ourselves on being closely in touch with the expectations of our stakeholders on all CR issues, and are committed to working harder than ever to improve ourperformance.
Peter Ventress Chief Executive Officer Our vision We take pride in doing what were best at, delivering unsurpassed levels of service, so our customers can do what Stakeholder theyre best at.
engagement Our values kk Determination People kk Caring and H&S kk Empowerment kk Teamwork Operational environmental Our strategic objectives efficiency Financial 1 Delivering sustainable organic growth 2 Improving capital efficiency Innovative and efficient 3 Maintaining a sound solutions financial position A responsible 4 Improving financial supply chain returns by leveraging operational efficiency Non-financial 5 Maintaining health and safety as a priority 6 Maintaining a motivated workforce driven by an experienced management team 7 Reducing our impact on the environment q Find out more about: Our stakeholders Pages 3435 Our people Pages 3641 Customer solutions Pages 42 Supply chain Pages 43 Environment Pages 4445 32 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance The Group Risk Manager At Berendsen, CR is not the task of kk Reports on CR KPIs a single team or department but the and incidents to the board: responsibility of all of us, at every level kk Manages external communication and in every business line.
and CR surveys: and kk Reports annually on progress to the UN Global Compact.
Business lines kk Implement group CR policies: CR kk Report on KPIs from all business management units: and Board and key kk Report to group management policies on any CRrelated issues and incidents.
kk Sets all group CR policies: kk Reviews CR KPIs, notably health and safety and CO2 emissions twice a year: and kk All incidents reported Country managers and shared tothe board.
service Finance Directors kk Report on compliance with the CR group policies twice a year: and kk Report any known or suspected cases of noncompliance.
The results showed that 70% of how business practices and cultures Our policies respondents did believe that policies in different countries should be Our Groupwide CR policies include: on antibribery and corruption were approached, especially in the countries sufficiently well known by employees, we flagged as potentially higher risk kk Ethics: and 60% said that a training programme kk Health and safety: was in place.
Although these were Compliance broadly positive results, areas for kk Environment: further improvement and strengthening For us, compliance with regulations kk Human resources and employees: were identified.
We work hard to anticipate upcoming legislation and make sure that kk Community: and Our response to the survey has been operations meet and where possible to review and update all our policies, kk Group business continuity planning.
We review these policies on a regular A new policy and procedures have We had no cases of noncompliance basis.
A revised and updated Group been defined, supported by new during the year.
Health and Safety policy was distributed training materials.
The new policy and throughout the business in 2013. procedures are effective from January Next steps and priorities for 2015 2015 and support from the Group Risk In 2014, a review of the Group Ethics kk Review the corporate responsibility Management function will be provided policy was led as well as a review of policies following completion of the across the business during 2015 to our Antibribery and Corruption policy strategy review: ensure adequate implementation.
kk Rollout of the new Antibribery and The main areas of risk regarding Anti-bribery and Corruption Corruption policy including focused bribery and corruption are in sales and policyreview training to ensure this is embedded procurement, most notably on public across businesses: and In 2014 we carried out an internal services contracts, and we have created survey to discover our employees training materials that specifically kk Review the current instant incident understanding of our expectations target this aspect.
The new guidance reporting process to make it more andtheir duties.
also covers donations to charities and efficient and effective.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 33
