Corporate responsibility continued Enabling and empowering our people.
By strengthening employee skills, communication and engagement and assuring a safe working environment we can enable and empower our people to achieve our strategic growth plans.
Chris Thrush Group Director, Human Resources People and Health & Safety In other areas, such as diversity, Overview of the year leadership development, employee communication and health and Deepening our initiatives and safety, we have successfully piloted or preparing for future growth expanded group initiatives deeper into In 2014, we took further steps against the business lines.
our commitments to engage, develop, reward and recognise our people.
In summary, our main focus in 2014 was to: Significant progress was made throughout the business in tackling the kk Improve areas of attention identified attention areas that arose from our 2013 from our employee survey: OneBerendsen engagement survey Key priorities: kk Ensure we have the necessary talent and we have been delighted with the and skills in place to meet our strategic kk Employee engagement enthusiasm that has been generated at growth aspirations: the individual site level.
This augurs well kk Leadership development for our next employee survey in 2015. kk Leadership development through kk Employee communication launch of the LEAD Development Employee engagement commentary q Centre programme: and Page 37 kk Diversity kk Extend existing initiatives deeper into During the year 2014, as outlined on kk Rewarding and recognising the organisation.
pages 10and 11, we undertook a group achievement strategy review which provided an In the following pages we update you kk Health & Safety opportunity to further evaluate our on our commitments in more detail.
pipeline of talent in relation to our targeted growth plans.
This exercise 98 97 Senior 96 helped us to identify where we can management develop in-house resource and where retention rate we will need to look externally to fulfil % our strategic objectives.
For example, 97% we have identified a need to strengthen our in-house capability to develop 2012 2013 2014 K KPP I I new ways to market, including online, multi-media, and database technologies 0.79 Major injury rate in order to more quickly generate new % business opportunities.
0.51 -44% 0.44 KPI 2012 2013 2014 36 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The risks The opportunities kk Lower employee engagement leads kk Improved communication leads The business case todemotivated and unproductive toengagement and leadership workforce: better execution of strategy: We can only fulfil our kk Underdeveloped leadership leads to kk High employee engagementleads long-term growth weakenedability to execute strategy: toimproved workforce productivity: aspirations by investing andoverall cost-savings: and kk Inability to develop internal talent in our people in the most pool: and kk Structured talent pool management cost-effective and leads to cost-effective allocation of kk Higher turnover, loss of know-how resourceful way.
People and Health & Safety continued Employee engagement In September 2013, we conducted our We have been delighted by the Next steps and priorities for 2015 first company-wide OneBerendsen commitment to respond to the survey kk We will carry out our next survey: employee engagement survey.
at plant level and believe that our Out of 15,000 people, a total of 11,500 people can see that our first companykk We will aim to improve on the results participated in the online survey, giving wide survey has genuinely helped to of the 2013 survey: and a response rate of 76%, and an overall engage employees and improve their kk We will compare results for the 2015 engagement score of 69%, eight working environment.
survey with 2013 survey results and points higher than the global norm for will publish our areas of strength similar surveys.
We said We made a commitment to continue communication and discussion of the 2013 survey results into 2014, working with employee groups to identify three to four improvement actions for each of Berendsens 140 workplaces, all aimed at further enhancing levels of engagement before the next survey is undertaken in 2015.
Performance in 2014 You Said and We Will Posters were produced so that the survey results for each site, together with the improvement actions, could be displayed and progress against them shown.
This had the effect of raising awareness further and, in a number of instances, inspired plant managers communication, feedback and appreciation Listening to employee groups to conduct their own mini-surveys to with Welcome to Work days, Newsletters, In Germany, in our Workwear business, evaluate whether key attention areas Reward Boards, Managers serving lunch days, theresults of the survey led to a series of new specific to their plant had improved.
and daily Team Leader shift meetings.
initiatives focused on employee wellbeing, both mental and physical.
This has improved As a result of the survey in Roskilde in communication between employees and Denmark, the plant management team managers, and resulted in a 1.5% reduction arefocusing much more on employee ideas inillness rate.
andsuggestions following an employee proposal to change a substantial part of the In the UK, in our Brixton, Bishop Auckland, production process to improve handling of Portsmouth and Durham plants, employee aircraft textiles.
groups have focused on ways of improving Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 37 s m a h e t s T d l w i & u e B o O l p r p o e g S e r t a P r t r a i o t o D t e n h n e g a f s e t l i u h e c m F t r g P r o O w m e e c n i o h w u n p r i t s o a G s d t p e i d r l o m a o i r n e f E u L a B A t B u c i s u i o n m e e n s t n s n a e l m Corporate responsibility continued People and Health & Safety continued Leadership development Our Leadership Effectiveness and Performance in 2014 Next steps and priorities for 2015 Development LEAD model was In total, 56 managers took part in kk The LEAD Development Centre introduced in 2012.
It identifies the LEAD development centres focused programme will continue with the behaviours we consider to be most onsenior leader behaviours.
In addition, objective of at least a further 50 effective for our future success at we extended the programme to plant managers invited to participate: and both senior and plant leader levels.
level managers within our UK Flat Linen Since its introduction, we have focused kk We will conduct an analysis of 2014 business with 32 managers participating.
on communicating and embedding programme results to identify where Two types of development centre have this model as part of our annual collectively we can see leadership been introduced, the first being on a review process.
strength, and where there is the need one-to-one basis involving an external for further development.
facilitator, 360 feedback, analysis of a We said business case, business scenarios and self-awareness development.
In 2013, we made a commitment to continue to embed LEAD through the The second type is a group programme introduction of a LEAD Development where typically eight managers take Centre programme.
We set ourselves part in a day long programme of the goal of inviting 50 managers, drawn observed activities including a business from the talent lists in our succession case, role plays and who am I sessions.
planning process, to take part in Both centre designs provide intensive, this programme.
challenging and stretching experiences resulting in each manager receiving their own development report with recommendations for their ongoing leadership development.
LEAD Thinking like our customers Leadership Effectiveness And Development model LEAD Development Centres at the plant level are designed to promote an outside in thinking perspective with Plant Managers encouraged to balance operational effectiveness with an ability to think more like the customer, predicting and anticipating their requirements.
It highlighted for me what others see as my strengths, but also my weaknesses.
Operationally, I came across strongly, but from a thinking like a customer point of view, these were areas I need to improve Our vision on.
I loved the role plays and the feedback given by the observers and colleagues.
We take pride in doing Seeing the approach others took in the same what were best at, delivering unsurpassed circumstances was very beneficial in that it levels of service, so our gave me ideas about how to better approach customers can do what the same situation again.
Jackie Weir General Manager, Glasgow 38 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 r e e e v m o r f o p M o t e s r m o u I R t c C i l e v a t s s i a i e c u t r l v e v t i e r s s D m e s m u T n e o c g a e C n m S o i s r e w a f l s f S C o t r r D r l k a e e e r n t v a r c e d e m l h t o a i n n p R I o g m t l g e a s n n n i t r s u e n t C e x S E Strategic report Governance Financial statements People and Health & Safety continued Employee communication We place a high priority on employee We said Next steps and priorities for 2015 communication and make use of a In 2014, as a direct result of feedback kk Our next employee engagement variety of channels to provide a wide from our employee survey, we focused survey will be conducted across the range of company information, news, on improving our induction information whole of Berendsen in September and promote knowledge sharing and for new employees.
This is an important 2015: and best practice exchange.
We continue development since we know that first to develop as a source of information kk Regular CEO video statements on impressions are lasting ones and we Berendsen Universe which is our group our strategy and business progress believe in providing new members of the intranet accessible to all employees.
distributed through the intranet: and Berendsen family with a full introduction In 2014, we published eight editions of to the company.
kk Further development of our intranet our corporate newsletter, which provide as a primary source for knowledge regular updates on performance and best practice sharing.
Performance in 2014 The outcome is a comprehensive and flexible induction tool, accessible to both new joiners and current employees, hosted on our Berendsen Universe intranet.
Employees can tailor their induction information according to their requirements through a menu driven design which allows them to dip in and out of the content provided.
First impressions count Online induction tool: key features kk Easy-to-use home page, allowing employees to dip into or dive deeper into key topics: kk Welcome film shot at our plant in Brixton : kk Vision and values information: kk Berendsen at work video shot at our concept laundry plant at Rainhill : kk Company policies: kk Employee and customer insights and stories: and kk Add-on information at a country level.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 39 Corporate responsibility continued People and Health & Safety continued Diversity Our goal is a working culture that is Performance in 2014 Gender statistics 2014 inclusive for all.
We are committed During the year, we expanded our to eliminating discrimination and mentoring programme, where encouraging diversity amongst our Female female and male mentors take on the workforce.
We aim for our employees Female Male % responsibility of mentoring more junior to be representative of the communities Board of Directors 2 5 29% female managers.
Currently, 40women in which we operate and for each of our Senior Managers 11 110 9% participate in the programme as people to feel respected and able to Middle Managers 41 128 24% mentors or mentees, supported by give their best.
Employees 6,326 8,325 43% This programme provides an excellent We said opportunity for shared learning, In 2013, as part of our commitment fostering career aspirations, confidence Next steps and priorities for 2015 to improve gender diversity, with a and encouragement, and is a good kk A recent workshop in January 2015 particular emphasis on the number of example of a Berendsen self-help brought together a group of over women in senior management roles, we initiative where we use our internal 50 women and men to provide undertook a more detailed analysis of strengths and resource to improve our a networking platform and the the women who occupy 24% of middle overall leadership capabilities.
opportunity to consider myths management positions in Berendsen.
Through discussion, a Berendsen view is being created, and the As a result of the mentoring programme Ihave grown in confidence and have aspirations and needs of our women recentlybeen appointed to Procurement in management are being identified: andSupply Chain Manager, a position I probably wouldnt have applied for before.
kk Continued equal focus on women I now have a large team, more autonomy and men in our succession planning andmore frequent interaction with senior and future potential review leaders.
I have been assigned a new mentor, processes: and who is again a great fit with my new role, and Im excited about the future!
kk Where external hiring opportunities Jeanette Baret present themselves, ensure we have shortlists with both male and female candidates.
Recognising and rewarding achievement We reward our managers based on The Berendsen Long Term Incentive Our annual recognition awards dinner theirperformance, potential and Plan, first introduced in 2012, had its first was held in London in December, contribution to the success of our vesting in March 2014, which provided a attended by nominated managers and business.
We aim to provide market group of approximately 100 managers their partners, to recognise outstanding competitive and fair rates of employee with share ownership benefits.
achievement through awards presented pay and benefits in every country where In addition, in 2014, the plan was for growth, service, and cash excellence, we operate.
expanded to incentivise 119 managers together with awards for manager of the for the achievement of strategic year and colleague of the year.
Two or three year stretching Performance in 2014 performance targets, which are business Next steps and priorities for 2015 unit specific, are set and managers We maintained our focus on clear kk Updating of market pay data receive regular performance updates andtransparent links between through participation in to ensure they are kept informed about performance and reward.
We incentivise benchmarking surveys in the progress towards the achievement managers through annual bonus majorcountries: and of targets.
programmes aligned to the key performance and growth objectives kk Review of the continued ofeach business line.
effectiveness of our shortand long-term incentive plans.
40 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements People and Health & Safety continued Maintaining health and safety asapriority The risks The opportunities kk Breach of health and safety laws and kk Further enhanced efficiency and The business case regulations which could lead to: effectiveness of management of health Our employees are at and safety systems: kk Damage to our reputation: and or the heart of our business kk Increased job satisfaction as well as kk Loss of licence to operate: and and their motivation, improved health and wellbeing: and kk Work has a negative impact on our health and safety is a kk Reputation as a legitimate and social employees health.
H&S statistics Health and safety Major injury Number of Major injury Number of management rate major injuries rate major injuries 2014 2014 2013 2013 As we operate in many countries, local standards, both in terms of regulation Business lines and accepted best practice, do vary.
Facility 0.89 3 Group-wide we want to achieve a Workwear 0.79 5 0.55 4 much higher standard than mere UK Flat Linen 0.38 3 0.80 8 compliance as the common standard.
Flat Linen outside UK 0.54 3 1.49 8 We regularly collect group incident Clinical Solutions and Decontamination statistics which are reviewed by Total group 0.44 11 0.79 23 the board twice a year.
In addition, The number of employees major injuries has significantly decreased.
Tragically, we have prompt incident reporting lastyear, we experienced the death of two people from the public due to two procedures in place which include separate road accidents where Berendsen drivers were involved.
None of these subsequent monitoring.
weredue tohazardous driving, driving under the influence of alcohol or similar.
We said We agreed to review the outcome A new Health and Safety Director, Alistair of the external health and safety Hopkins, was appointed in January 2015. consultants report, which covered Alistair comes with extensive, relevant seven plants in six countries, to experience in the business, having understand how we manage health previously been the Director of Central and safety.
Services, Flat Linen UK and responsible for services related to compliance, governance, H&S and risk management.
Performance in 2014 The Operational Risk Management Next steps and priorities for 2015 Group placed increased focus on kk Roll out a training programme for health and safety including more Country Health and Safety Managers accurate reporting and categorisation together with an awareness of incidents as they occur.
programme for Operational Directors and Country Managers across The output of the health and safety all businesses: independent review was presented in 2014 to the Executive Board.
The key kk Strengthen communication across action points will be reviewed and businesses to enhance best implemented.
One action is our plan practice sharing: in 2015 to complete a group-wide kk Implementation of a new major Health and Safety audit programme Improving health and safety health and safety incident reporting to monitor and access the ongoing All our plants in Ireland now have a health process: and improvement.
Other key actions are set and safety committee set-up comprising of out in the table on the right as priorities management and shop floor staff.
In addition, kk Complete a group-wide Health and a four-day workshop in managing safely for 2015.
Safety audit programme to monitor has been provided to all plant managers and and access the ongoing some supervisors to facilitate health and safety work planning.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 41
