Strategic report Governance Financial statements Managing our supply chain.
We aim to award large contracts to a select number of suppliers as this gives us greater influence and control, which we use to ensure compliance with our CR policies.
A responsible supply chain Group Procurement Supplier audits Performance With procurement and supplier We regularly conduct supplier visits kk While maintaining high CSR engagement presenting both risks and and these are complemented by our standards our procurement opportunities across the business, we assurance providers independent function has outperformed have significantly expanded our Group audits, which report on each suppliers budgetary expectations in Procurement function.
level of compliance and alert us to any 2014 and confirmed the Chief areas that require improvement.
Executives initial assessment The functions aim is to drive sourcing ofuntapped opportunities.
and supply chain excellence, deliver We also have a whistleblowing scheme measurable savings, and innovate, at in place, as well as teams of quality the same time as maintaining superior managers working at supplier plant level Next steps and priorities for 2015 product and service quality, and across much of our business, and their kk Developing a set of internal ensuring continuity of supply.
responsibilities include maintaining a KPIs on delivery times and the clear focus on CR matters.
CR issues are increasingly prominent warehouse network: in all aspects of procurement and in In most cases, our suppliers provide kk Tightening our processes to 2014, the emphasis has been on refining wages, accommodation and healthcare encourage supplier compliance: the organisation and rolling-out our above the local average.
This helps them group approach.
to attract and retain the workers they kk Ensuring that suppliers rapidly need in order to work efficiently with the address any issues raised: and We have targeted full ROI over innovative materials and processes that three years and we have already kk Launch a re-engineered Berendsen we are constantly introducing.
Supplier Relationship Management Programme in order to ensure Human rights that we have consistency across Supply chain management the group on how we drive the Our main human rights risks relate Although our main suppliers are relationship and performance of our to our suppliers.
We reduce these currently in Europe, we are moving strategic suppliers across the group.
risks by closely managing our supply towards sourcing in the Indian subchain and awarding contracts to large, continent and Asia, including Pakistan, trusted suppliers.
We maintain a firm focus on child labour, We acknowledge that our industry forced labour and labour conditions.
in general is experiencing risks and We are absolutely committed to challenges with this shift but are ensuring that child labour is never used confident that our own Asian suppliers, by any Berendsen supplier.
including those in Bangladesh, have all been rigorously checked and meet Supplier contracts incorporate our the highest standards of environmental code of conduct, with suppliers signing protection, health, safety, human rights their confirmation.
We experienced Every supplier in the Far East is no cases of non-compliance in 2014. audited every two years by an external company, with any issues flagged for immediate action.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 43
