Sustainability Review Sustainability: Essential for business success 52 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Group seeks to balance the broad societal benefits of our growing business with potential environmental and social impacts arising from our operations.
Our business strategy is created with a fundamental premise that acting responsibly and sustainably is unconditional.
We believe that acting responsibly and The Group has six sustainability priorities: sustainably aligns with our core ethos and creates long-term value for all key stakeholders.
Our goal is to operate efficiently, minimise our environmental Environment Our People impact, work in an ethically and socially considerate manner and build confidence and trust with our stakeholders.
Health and safety Our Communities Sustainability underpins the Groups strategic priorities outlined on pages 8 and 9 and is inherent in the Companys Products and Ethics purpose and values.
technology Launched in 2013, our fourth strategic pillar of Value Chain Excellence VCE recognises the vital importance of ongoing sustainability.
In the VCE system, we consider not only our own operations, but in addition assess those Engagement with stakeholders during 2014 of our customers and suppliers.
Our sustainability approach is embedded in our business through six key areas: Engaging with stakeholders environment, health and safety, products and technology, our people, our communities and ethics.
Suppliers and Government Employees Investors Communities customers and regulators This Sustainability Review outlines the importance of these six areas to the business, our performance in these - Code of Conduct - Calls and face-to- - Fundraising events - Face-to-face - Consultation areas over the past year and the policies - Global intranet face meetings - Sponsorship meetings responses - Formalised staff - AGM - Partnerships - Weir customer - Commissioning and practices applied to help monitor and meetings - Reports and with educational experience of reports manage this performance.
Town Halls announcements institutes programme - Face-to-face - Net Promoter - Website - Trainee and - Global supplier meetings surveys - Roadshows mentorship scorecard for - Visits to sites During 2014, we reviewed how - Personal - Capital programmes strategic suppliers - Briefing papers Development Plans Markets Day - Volunteering - Code of Conduct - Industry events sustainability priorities are identified and - Training - Investor Relations - Armed Forces - ISO 14001 assessed at a Group level.
We are in the programmes app for mobile Covenant certification - Weir University devices - Social media - Trade shows and process of completing a formal materiality e-learning facility - Social media industry events - Social media - Social media assessment to confirm those issues with the greatest importance for our business.
Following the outcomes of our materiality assessment, the changes which we believe need to be made to our existing processes will be incorporated into our management systems.
The materiality assessment is being conducted in line with the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines, which are generally considered to comprise global best practice for sustainability reporting.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 53 y f i t y n f i a t c I n u o d e n q e t n d r e t k o I h l d i s f t s i y y r a n i f r f i s t a e s f n r o u a e r r u q t g a u h Q i n r e e r d M d a m n i Sustainability Review continued Environment Gavin Nicol Director of Operations, Support & Development We continue to incorporate environmental sustainability into both our strategic decision making and our daily operational activities.
The Groups strategy for environmental those sustainability issues with the greatest Monitoring impacts management is three-fold: importance for our business, and will reflect The Group operates an EHS audit 1.
Identify and quantify key potential the outcomes in our existing processes and programme which assesses compliance risks within the business: management systems.
against a set of globally applicable EHS 2.
Manage and minimise potentially standards.
A minimum standard has been adverse impacts arising from its Managing environmental risk prescribed against each of the criteria within operations: and Environmental, Health & Safety EHS the 76 EHS standards and ensures that 3.
Track and report on the potentially Management System there is both a leading EHS indicator of most significant impacts.
Identifying and managing environmental performance and an assurance process for risks is a key component of Weirs all relevant stakeholders that EHS risks are internal control framework.
The Weir adequately controlled across our operations.
EHS Management System sets out the The 2014 audit programme gave an average 11 priorities for assessing and measuring 14% increase across our subsidiaries.
potential environmental impacts and details required control measures.
These Environmental incidents and fines include, for instance, the use of registers No significant environmental incidents to support compliance with permit and were reported at sites under the operational authorisation requirements, adherence control of the Group during the 52 weeks to storage, containment and management to 2 January 2015.
A minor environmental criteria to mitigate potential impact on incident was reported at a Weir Seaboard soil and groundwater, and assessment customer site in Pennsylvania on 5 January of environmental noise for all operations.
No injuries were sustained, however Together, these measures are designed natural gas and production fluid were to enable conformance with all applicable released during the disassembling of legislation.
A well control contractor repaired the well, removed contaminated soil and ISO 14001: Environmental monitored the groundwater.
A formal field Management System complaint report was completed with root Where we acquire or open new sites, ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised cause and corrective action analysis.
There we assess the means by which potentially standard which sets out a framework for was also a minor non-conformance in relation material environmental risks can be minimised effective environmental management to the reporting of environmental data from and look to adopt new technologies and systems.
Certification to ISO 14001 not one of the Groups subsidiary companies.
recognised good practice to help achieve this.
only provides the mechanism to adequately manage environmental considerations We operate under an awareness not just We also strive to innovate and enhance the but also demonstrates our ongoing of the potential impact our business can positive benefit of our products and services.
environmental performance in terms of legal have on the environment, but equally the and environmental policy requirements.
risk to our operations from extreme weather Identifying potential risks and impacts or other environmental events.
One incident Risks are assessed, and quantified, in terms Under the Weir EHS Management System, of adverse business impact relating to of impact and likelihood of occurrence, both all continuing operations are required to a climatic event during 2014 has been before and after control mitigation.
Risk is maintain ISO 14001 accreditation.
As part reported: tropical cyclones in Southern India assessed across a range of factors, one of the integration process, new acquisitions caused landslides and affected transport of which is environment.
As noted in the are expected to implement an environmental infrastructure, impacting operations of key introduction to this Sustainability Review, management system and to seek external customers.
More details on risk can be we are in the process of completing a ISO 14001 accreditation.
found on pages 24 to 31. formal materiality assessment to identify 54 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 n a i t g m h s Q e e i y k u f s s n i a t i e e r n n t t e e r i i f d s I h y k t t r o k p c e II a d d r r e e m m T n n ii d t t t t t r i i ii g g n f f r o a a y y o p a t t t ii t t i n n n e h h r g g e e o d c c M e e o o n x x n n a i i t t s s r r t t o o ii ll s s n n g g Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Greenhouse gas emissions Our calculation methodology remains Scope 2 sources comprise those emissions We are a growing business and the markets aligned with the principles of the for which the Group is indirectly responsible, that we work in mean the majority of our Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate i. e. from the electricity, heat, steam and businesses are energy, and thus carbon, Accounting and Reporting Standard cooling we purchase to use in our operations intensive.
However, we also have operations developed by the World Business Council or equipment.
in the hydro, wind and nuclear energy for Sustainable Development and the industries which are contributing to the World Resources Institute.
Activities in recent years have focused on production of cleaner, low-carbon energy.
improving systems for GHG data capture and Weir Minerals Africa provides high efficiency The Group has chosen to follow the reporting across our global business, with a WRT impeller technology for both new and operational control approach, whereby it focus on Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
We do existing slurry pumps.
This reduces energy accounts for 100% of the GHG emissions not currently measure or report Scope 3 input for the pumps and increases the from operations over which it has control.
emissions, which relate to sources not within operating life of the equipment.
The result This is consistent with our approach to our direct control, third-party warehouses and is a smaller overall carbon footprint, due to financial accounting and reporting.
On this transport in vehicles not owned by the Group.
fewer parts being replaced less frequently, basis, all subsidiary companies are included However, we have conducted a high level as well as fewer parts being manufactured.
in reported annual GHG emissions, whilst qualitative assessment of which sources of Recycled high chrome iron scrap is used our joint ventures which are not under our Scope 3 emissions may be more material to manufacture these parts.
However, in for our business.
Those identified include reviewing our reporting, we have excluded purchased goods and services, transportation A review of our approach and systems for some sites on the basis of materiality or and distribution and use of sold products, measuring our global greenhouse gas GHG because of the type of site.
The Group and we are considering how to manage emissions was undertaken in 2013 to evolve GHG Inventory Management Plan provides these in the future.
best practice and to enable compliance with guidance on our operational control approach.
the new carbon reporting requirements The Groups GHG data collection process under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic The UK government GHG Conversion is subject to ongoing review, resulting Report and Directors Report Regulations Factors 2014 have been used to calculate in improvements in the consistency and 2013.
In our last report, we reported that UK emissions.
Factors from other credible accuracy of the reported data.
In particular, we had procured a new software solution sources have been used for overseas 2013 was the initial year of implementing to enable more complete data collation operations, specifically those published by our comprehensive global GHG reporting and accurate emissions calculation.
the US Environmental Protection Agency, system.
During the course of updating the the International Energy Agency and the system with 2014 data, and conducting Implementation of the system, including Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
a review and assessment of data with our user training and data entry, was completed external consultants, we have enhanced during 2014.
Regular review of our data All elements considered likely to make a the methodology and therefore the quality management system, processes and material contribution to Scope 1 and Scope 2 and consistency of the 2013 data set, procedures is planned in order to maintain emissions have been included.
Scope 1 enabling us to report an updated baseline as and improve the relevance, accuracy and sources are those emissions for which the 217,772 tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent scope of our reporting over time.
Group is directly responsible, i. e. combustion tCO e for 2013.
This compares against the 2 of fuel for the operation of our facilities.
reported total emissions of 212,000 tCO e, 2 representing a variance of 2.7%.
Total Annual GHG emissions and emissions intensity by scope Total annual GHG emissions Emissions intensity tCO e tCO e per m revenue 2 2 2014 2013 2014 2013 Scope 1: On-site combustion of fuel 76,418 85,245 31.3 35.1 Scope 2: Purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use 132,339 132,527 54.3 54.5 Total 208,757 217,772 85.6 89.6 2013 versus 2014 Foundry Emissions GHG emissions intensity Annual GHG emissions Proportion of total global tCO e per tonne 2 tCO e annual GHG emissions of metal poured 2 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Scope 1: On-site combustion of fuel all foundries 19,769 22,545 9.5% 10.4% 0.6 0.6 Scope 2: Purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use all foundries 65,109 66,946 31.2% 30.7% 2.0 1.9 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 55 Sustainability Review continued Monitoring impacts continued As with total global GHG emissions, Minimising potential impacts Greenhouse gas emissions continued restated 2013 emissions figures for Energy GHG reduction measures The restatement has been applied in the foundries have been provided as One of our sustainability improvement accordance with recognised international a performance baseline.
priorities is to reduce our energy use and in standards, including the World Resources relative terms associated GHG emissions.
Institute, and in line with the principles set For the first time in four years, we are Our focus to date has been to set and out in our Inventory Management Plan, reporting a reduction in absolute GHG manage targets at an operating company approved in 2013 and revised and updated emissions across the Group.
We have aspirations to define carbon in 2015 to promote best practice in the encouraging to see a change in the trend and potentially broader sustainability collection of data across the Group.
in both absolute emissions and emissions performance goals across the business to normalised by revenue.
This suggests that supplement the site level process.
We will The Groups total annual GHG emissions the results of our energy efficiency and review this following completion of the in tCO e for the 52 weeks ended 2 January carbon reduction projects are now being sustainability materiality assessment.
2 2015 and the updated data for the 53 weeks reflected in performance.
Our foundries ended 3 January 2014 are set out on page 55. account for approximately 40% of our total Details of some of the sustainability GHG emissions and therefore monitoring improvement measures undertaken GHG emissions figures for 2013 as foundry performance is particularly important and targets set during 2014 are: updated are presented as the baseline for driving onward performance.
We have Weir Minerals Africa implemented power against which year on year performance started to analyse the GHG emissions from factor correction at the Isando foundry, is measured.
these on an emissions per tonne of cast delivering a predicted reduction in weight and between 2013 and 2014 there electricity usage of some 80 to The Group now operates seven foundries, has been a marginal increase in carbon 100 Megawatt hours MWh per month.
which are the most energy intensive areas intensity of energy at the foundries.
This is Weir Gabbioneta replaced fluorescent of the business.
We have presented foundry to be expected, given a slight reduction in light tubes with LED light fittings and GHG emissions separately to enable closer throughput but a minimum energy base this project has saved over 10,000 and performance review in a separate table, load required to maintain operations.
51 tonnes of CO e in the first year.
Case study: Environment Rubber as an engineering material Natural rubber is an engineering material with unique properties.
Natural rubber is used in many Weir Linatex Premium Rubber is a 95% products, including seals for valves, liners natural rubber that exhibits outstanding for pumps and cyclones, as well as linings resilience, strength and resistance to for process vessels and pipes.
Natural cutting, tearing and abrasion.
In addition, rubber is preferred due to its outstanding natural rubber is a highly sustainable toughness which gives it superb abrasion crop.
Rubber plantations not only provide resistance properties, exemplified by employment but rubber trees are also Weir Minerals Linatex Premium Rubber an important raw material source for known throughout the mining industry furniture, manufacturing and as a bio-fuel.
due to outstanding performance as well More importantly, rubber trees can be as its familiar red colour.
used to sequester carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
The primary rubber tree species cultivated as a crop is the Hevea Brasiliensis tree The Kyoto Protocol 1997 requires after which they are cut down and with the main producers of natural rubber developed nations to cut their a new tree planted.
Weir Minerals latex being Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia greenhouse gas emissions in order to Malaysia only uses natural rubber and India.
Over 12 million metric tonnes tackle climate change.
Carbon dioxide from such a sustainable source.
of natural rubber were produced globally CO is one of the major greenhouse 2 in 2013. gases created due to economic activity Developing products that use natural but each rubber tree can fix one metric rubber as an engineering material helps Natural rubbers unique physical properties tonne of CO during its 30 year economic 2 increase the sustainability of our products are due to its inherent molecular structure life.
It is estimated that one hectare of and practices.
For 90 years, Weir natural rubber plantation can sequester Minerals Malaysia, the home of Linatex up to 30 metric tonnes of CO per year.
2 production, has perfected the art of Carbon is also returned to the ground optimising the properties of Linatex and as leaves fall and is also captured in maximising its abrasion resistance by natural latex itself.
Rubber trees have uniquely processing directly from latex.
an optimum period of productive life 56 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Weir Minerals Europe in Todmorden Nearly 13,000 tonnes of metal were reused UK Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme reduced gas usage for space heating internally in our foundry operations in 2014.
Following a regulatory review, it has been by 45% in the machine shop and 39% of all metal poured in the foundries in determined that the Group will be required 25% in the main office by improving 2014 was reused internally, compared to to participate in Phase 1 of the Energy employee awareness.
The increase in the amount Saving Opportunities Scheme ESOS 603MWh of gas energy, equivalent to of metal being reused compared to the prior Regulations 2014.
ESOS is part of the UKs over 111 tonnes of CO e. year is a reflection of the full year recycling implementation of the EU Energy Efficiency 2 Weir Minerals India installed electric data for the foundries acquired during 2013 Directive 2012 EED, which requires EU heated thermic fluid rather than a in Malaysia and South Africa being included member states to introduce a framework of diesel fired boiler for the rubber plant in the 2014 data.
measures for promoting energy efficiency.
CO e emissions were The purpose of ESOS is to measure the 2 reduced by 27% from 916 tonnes to Additional reporting mechanisms energy consumption of large organisations 670 tonnes.
CDP Climate Change Initiative from buildings, transport and industrial The CDP scheme formerly known as processes, determine participants The Group continues to install and make the Carbon Disclosure Project is a global, significant areas of energy consumption use of telepresence video-conferencing voluntary initiative for major companies to and identify cost effective energy saving facilities at its major sites worldwide.
measure, disclose and share information measures though auditing a representative There are now 16 sites in eight countries about sustainability performance and sample of key areas of consumption.
with dedicated telepresence conference associated risk management and rooms.
These allow meetings to be held performance with transparency The Group is in the process of determining throughout the Group as though attendees and accountability.
the most effective means of meeting were in the same location.
The facilities the requirements of these regulations, were used for both Board and Group In 2014, we achieved a disclosure score which are to be complied with by early Executive meetings as well as budget of 90 out of a possible 100 and a C rating December 2015. review meetings during the year, and their for our sustainability performance relative use has resulted in a notable reduction to that of other participants.
This notable in air travel and related GHG emissions.
improvement on our 2013 score 77 D We estimate that the use of telepresence reflects our ongoing commitment to has saved over 1,300 tonnes of CO e. continued improvement for all aspects 2 of environmental sustainability.
Recycling As part of our environmental sustainability UK Carbon Reduction Commitment strategy, our businesses also focus on Energy Efficiency Scheme improving resource efficiency: for instance, Having met the qualification criteria, the increasing the proportion of waste materials Group was required to participate in Phase that are recycled and reducing the total 1 of the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment quantity of waste going to landfill.
The mandatory scheme aims to encourage large organisations to reduce GHG emissions Foundry recycling 000 tonnes through energy efficiency interventions.
40 12.9 During specific scheme years, participants are required to purchase and surrender 30 sufficient CRC allowances for their relevant 11.9 20 GHG emissions.
In 2014, the Company purchased and surrendered 3,437 CRC 13.2 4.5 0.7 10 3.1 0.6 allowances at a cost of 41,244.
A legal and 3.6 2.6 1.0 3.8 2.5 technical assessment has confirmed that Foundry Metal Foundry Foundry Metal Foundry Timber the Group does not qualify as a participant Reused Internally Scrap Metal Recycled to Third Recycled Tonnes Purchased from Party Tonnes in Phase 2 of the scheme and was therefore Customer Tonnes Tonnes no longer obligated to participate in the CRC Scheme after Phase 1 ended in March 2014.
2012 2013 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 57 Sustainability Review continued Health and Safety behaviours and actions.
The Duty of Care It consists of three major strands: The Weir Group is committed to a System provides an unbroken chain of i Safe Start: ii climate surveys: and zero harm environment.
Every Board accountability from the Chief Executive to iii participant observations.
In 2014, meeting begins with a discussion our newest apprentice and details individual we have completed our target of having all of the Groups progress towards responsibilities for managing EHS risks.
operational employees trained in strand one.
its ambition of achieving a Total The EHS standards cover nine primary Overall, Weir Zero Harm promotes a culture Incident Rate TIR of zero.
areas of risk, from supply chain to field that values behaviours which continually operations, and provide step-by-step improve EHS performance.
The system In order to achieve that ambition, the Group guidance on the minimum requirements involves face to face training in identifying has a range of initiatives to keep our people, expected at all of Weirs operations behavioural types and behavioural states, customers, suppliers, sub-contractors and anywhere in the world.
Each division has a and the critical errors that these can cause.
the environments in which they operate dedicated EHS director and they are jointly The training is designed to promote safe safe.
In 2014, no fatalities were reported.
responsible for developing and delivering behaviours and to increase awareness EHS strategy across the Group.
In addition, of how personal behaviours and habits EHS Excellence Committee they lead the implementation of the Weir influence risks.
The action towards a zero-accident workplace EHS Management System and delivery of is led by the Environment, Health & Safety our EHS objectives.
In 2014, employees Measuring progress EHS Excellence Committee.
Its remit is to in every Weir business received training These efforts contributed to a reduction set and monitor rigorous standards to improve in the standards.
in the Groups TIR which measures lost EHS performance across the Group.
In 2014, time and recordable incidents divided by the committee continued to implement the Individual business units and all employees 200,000 hours worked.
The results for 2014 Weir Group EHS Roadmap, which charts are engaged in delivering health and safety show that our incident rate reduced by 20% the path to a safer workplace and which improvements.
This includes employee compared to the previous year.
is now in its third year of implementation.
safety committees, hazard and near miss The committee has started the process of reports and intra-departmental auditing.
updating the roadmap to ensure it continues TIR performance to drive progress in further years.
Weir Zero Harm Behavioural 2.0 Safety System Weir EHS Management System Progress continued in the roll-out of the 1.6 1.5 The Weir EHS Management System Behavioural Safety System, known as Weir establishes a common set of EHS standards Zero Harm.
The Weir Zero Harm programme 1.0 1.0 and expectations for addressing the risks 0.8 is focused on establishing demonstrable that our operations face.
Its purpose is to 0.5 behavioural change across the entire Group.
embed health and safety within our culture, 2012 2013 2014 Case study: Health and safety A critical priority for Weir Weirs products are designed to operate in some of the worlds harshest environments, supported by a global service centre network.
At the heart of this operation is safety.
Safety is discussed at every Board best practice and protocols for high-risk Weir assesses its safety performance meeting which helps to set a culture of activities.
The system encourages visibility using a Total Incident Rate TIR which continuous improvement throughout the and transparency of all incidents, with rigorous measures medical treatment of any kind business.
The EHS management system reviews and corrective actions being taken required by employees, excluding first aid sets minimum standards of performance as appropriate.
This work is complemented injuries, divided by 200,000 hours worked.
and, through a stringent audit process, by ongoing training and education safety compliance is carefully monitored.
In the last three years, the Group has Through continuous improvement, implemented the Weir Environmental, compliance scores have increased by The Board is committed to maintaining Health and Safety EHS Management over 30% since 2012, despite increases in EHS as a critical priority for the Weir System.
This has resulted in a significant the scope and level of standard required.
Group and does not tolerate complacency.
improvement in the Groups TIR Weir continues to target a TIR of 1 and performance of nearly 80%, The EHS management system focuses on an EHS audit score of 40% throughout from 3.4 in 2011 to 0.8 in 2014. improving safety through the publication of the organisation.
58 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Products and Technology As one of the worlds leading Case study: Products and technology engineering businesses, we are committed to developing sustainable products and technology.
We continue Duralast to target our innovation efforts on products and services which make our customers more efficient by Fluid End system improving performance, durability and safety, as well as reducing potential environmental impacts.
Hydraulic fracturing, the process of creating The Group recognises the benefits of fractures in oil and gas bearing rock formations collaborating with a wide range of partners to release trapped hydrocarbons, requires large, to turn the best ideas into effective products and services for our customers.
robust reciprocating pumps that operate in In 2014, this involved working with some adverse environments.
of the worlds leading universities to help us develop and exploit emerging technologies that create new products for The last few years have seen a rise in The most significant and yet simplest our end markets and provide competitive pumping pressures due to rock formations change was to offset the valve and plunger advantages to our customers.
During 2014, becoming increasingly difficult to access.
bore axes in the fluid, or wet end of the Weir invested resources in building a Gradually, the mechanical stresses in the pump, resulting in a reduction in peak collaborative relationship with Imperial pump components have approached their stress of over 30%.
This increased the College, London, a world-renowned design limits.
service life of the fluid end to nearly twice research establishment.
This culminated the life of conventional technology.
Design in the recent commitment to a partnership The Weir Advanced Research Centre and utility patents have been granted for to develop radical, new solutions to some embarked on a programme to extend this feature.
Combined with advanced of the most aggressive challenges pump longevity.
Three primary failure materials, the offset bores extend the experienced by our customers.
modes were identified and separate service life by more than five times that research projects were initiated to of previous products.
Engineering Excellence Committee address each.
Once the wear mechanisms Weirs Engineering Excellence Committee and failure modes were fully understood, Other enhancements delivered by this comprises senior engineering and an innovative approach was taken to programme, resulting in a fluid end with technology leaders from around the create and assess options to extend superior life, include optimisation of business, including the Group Head of the operating life by reducing the peak the design of the valve and seat, and Technology, technology directors from mechanical stresses in the critical further enhancements to the advanced each of our three divisions, the business areas of the highly loaded components.
manufacturing processes used by the head of our Bangalore-based engineering A number of solutions were selected for Group in the preparation of the critical services team and the director and project detailed analysis, then prototype testing.
Together, these have enabled manager of the Weir Advanced Research The final combination of improvements our customers to be more efficient by Centre.
Its role is to ensure that through selected was determined using a improving the service life of fluid ends.
collaboration we are sharing and implementing scientific approach, combining advanced By utilising finite element stress analysis best practice across all of our engineering finite element analysis and computational and fluid dynamics, the Weir Advanced teams, and, specifically, driving leading fluid dynamics with controlled prototype Research Centre and the Groups Pressure edge technology and innovation.
Field testing in collaboration with Pumping engineering team optimised the some of the Groups customers was geometrical design of the fluid end system The Committee drives the product conducted to validate the changes specifically for todays pressure pumping innovation strategy across the Group before a full market launch.
The results have been publicly and during 2014 defined four key areas recognised by many of Weirs customers of focus to support the growth and and development of the Duralast Fluid development ambitions of the business.
Firstly, three core technologies have been identified that are critical to the current and future product portfolio.
These will attract increased focus during 2015.
Secondly, resources will be assigned to the development of a Weir engineering system.
Thirdly, the further development and enhancement of our engineering talent, building on demonstrable improvements in the last three years.
Finally, some fine tuning of the Weir engineering culture to ensure an even greater engagement with our customers to ensure an increased and better understanding of their future technical challenges.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 59 Sustainability Review continued Design and innovation Weirs operating companies work with Product stewardship The Group spent 24.8m 2013: 21.5m their customers to optimise the design Effective product stewardship ensures that on research and development during the and benefits available in their products.
every aspect of our products and services financial year.
Weir has more than doubled For example, in 2014, Weir Minerals is incorporated in the design process.
This its spend on fundamental research and Indias mill circuit optimisation initiative includes environmental, health and safety development since 2009 and views for customer Hindustan Zinc resulted in and social considerations, from the drawing meaningful investment in this arena as an an estimated increase in recovery of 10%.
board to decommissioning and 2014 saw essential element in supporting innovation, For Trimex Sands, truck transportation of significant progress being made on the one of our four strategic pillars.
We expect sand for two kilometres was replaced by product stewardship initiative launched this growth in investment to continue as pumping slurry through a pipeline, thereby the previous year.
Risk assessments have we work towards developing products resulting in an estimated saving of 15% of now been completed on the majority of and technologies which not only reduce fuel consumed.
In the same year, another the existing product portfolio.
This involved environmental impact but are also capable customer, Gujarat Industries Power taking an objective and systematic approach of operating in the most challenging Company, benefited from an optimisation to the assessment of potential hazards conditions.
Weir is recognised as a world of the hydraulic design of the rotor of their associated with each product family, leader in the development and application boiler feed pumps which resulted in an then determining an appropriate mitigation of wear resistant materials technology.
estimated power consumption reduction strategy for each.
Product stewardship of 65 kilowatt hours per pump.
has now been embedded in the Weir Now in its fourth year of operation, the New Product Introduction NPI process, Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC Many of the Groups products and services making it a business-as-usual activity.
is Weirs central research and development are also used in low carbon applications hub, supporting each of the three divisions such as nuclear and renewables power In product stewardship, Weir Minerals and complementing the R&D activity generation.
For example, Weir American Netherlands is currently participating in a ongoing around the world by the individual Hydro creates state-of-the-art hydro-turbine three year sustainability research project businesses.
The Group has links with over 18 designs.
Hydropower generates cleaner with the objective of determining the universities around the globe, each carrying energy that helps to offset carbon metrics of product design to review the out fundamental and applied research into emissions.
In 2014, Weir American Hydro environmental impact throughout the life the following areas: materials and surface developed and put into production new cycle of a product.
In parallel, the company treatments, advanced manufacturing turbine design software to improve the is establishing a roadmap for business processes, fluid flow and wear mechanisms.
efficiency and performance of its Francis development in which the environmental turbine designs.
This software is called benefits of its applications are considered As WARC continues to evolve and the AHRDS American Hydro Runner Design as an integral aspect of the product offering earlier projects near completion, the newly System and the benefits realised during alongside the technical and durability developed technologies continue to bring this process include time-saving for other requirements of the market.
benefit to the businesses and support the departments in the value chain and a launch of innovative new products into the reduction in lead time for our customers.
During 2014, product stewardship was market place.
WARC is currently processing also formally integrated into the Weir two patent applications for innovative Weir Mathena identified the opportunity to Environmental, Health and Safety system.
technologies which are being developed modify the design of its Shale Gas Separator in the research centre.
The Shale Gas Separator has proven to be a critical solution as energy operators Early in 2015, WARC will transition to the drill for liquids and natural gas utilising large newly built Technology and Innovation volumes of air verses traditional drilling fluid.
Centre TIC based at the University of The purpose of the modification was to Strathclyde in Glasgow, Scotland.
TIC is a extend the life of discharge piping: reduce hub for world-leading research, transforming water usage related to plugging: and reduce the way academics, business, industry and compressor use for discharge air jet.
The the public sector collaborate.
Construction discharge assembly was re-engineered of the TIC building has been completed to optimise the balance of pressure drop following a total investment of 89m without plugging.
The result was a dramatic from the University of Strathclyde, decrease in the volume of compressed Scottish Enterprise and the European air required to operate the unit and thus a Development Fund.
significant decrease in the diesel fuel required to run the generator for the compressor.
During 2014, the Group, in collaboration with the University of Strathclyde and other strategic partners, has made a number of applications for both UK and European research funding.
This includes Horizon 2020, which is the biggest EU Research and Innovation programme ever.
Leveraging research grants such as these enables the Group to maximise its investment in research and development.
60 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Our People Pauline Lafferty Director of Human Resources Motivated, skilled and effective people are imperative to our business.
We are committed to attracting and those who have many years of experience In 2015, a further 30 senior managers will retaining the best people, and developing working with Weir.
We mirrored our join the programme which will run in North them to ensure they achieve their full geographical and cultural diversity and America.
Since its launch, over 20 members potential.
In doing so, we seek to: conducted workshops in five geographical of the senior management group have ensure no form of prejudice stands in territories.
The results indicated that our core become programme learning advisors to the way of recruitment, development values should remain the same, but that it is their colleagues, giving substantial time or promotion opportunities: now appropriate to re-express these values in to help foster a peer learning culture.
encourage, invest in and support our language more fitting with our business today.
employees to achieve their full potential: Weir Business Management Programme identify the training and development Our values are embedded within our The Weir Business Management needs of employees and find ways personal development planning process Programme, run in conjunction with the to fulfil those requirements: through regular employee appraisals and University of Strathclyde Business School, use the Weir Group Personal Development within all of our development programmes.
puts in place a contextualised executive Plan PDP to address how we can support In 2015, we will focus on ensuring our education programme that provides our the development of our employees: values are embedded within our businesses leaders with the required management employ and retain people who share to ensure that they remain an integral part skills and knowledge to succeed within our values and behaviours and actively of our culture.
discourage those who do not: work to maintain a business environment Weir Leadership Programme Participants work towards the completion where individuals feel valued and As part of our leadership development of a post-graduate certificate in management respected: and programme, we work to equip future studies through modules including operations provide development opportunities to leaders with the skills necessary to lead management, commercial law and internationally mobile employees by the Group.
The programme aims to deliver innovation.
As well as the academic benefits, encouraging overseas appointments.
a sustainable step change in Weir leadership the programme promotes greater networking capability, specifically addressing our drivers and global collaboration by bringing together Our values of growth: Value Chain Excellence, Global a team of people from a mix of divisions, The Weir Group believes in doing business Capability, Innovation and Collaboration.
regions and functional backgrounds, in an ethical and transparent manner at all who complete the programme together.
Our core values underpin this belief, The nine-month programme consists as follows: of residential events and monthly virtual In 2014, around 40 managers took part we value, support and care for conferences.
Participants are asked to bring in the programme, with a total of 115 our colleagues working towards with them a strategic business objective to managers taking part since the programme a common purpose: progress along with a set of learning goals was launched in 2012.
A further 25 we act with integrity and are for the programme.
Pre-work includes managers will start the Weir Business accountable to ourselves and others: completion of a Weir Leader Feedback Management Programme in 2015. we strive to make our customers Survey 360 degree, Myers-Briggs Type successful: Indicator and pre-reading.
The Group Weir MBA we explore ideas and possibilities Executive and members of the Weir Participants of the Weir Business to deliver innovative solutions: and leadership team are involved in delivering Management Programme have the we are committed to quality in all elements of the programme and in actively opportunity to obtain a full Masters that we do.
in Business Administration MBA qualification.
In 2014, 24 graduates of the In 2014, we updated and refreshed our In 2014, around 60 senior managers took Weir Business Management Programme values in consultation with our teams across part in the programme, with a total of 275 started their Weir MBA journey.
We conducted workshops with managers taking part since the programme will continue throughout 2015 and they will a cross section of employees, from those was launched in 2011. complete their MBA in the summer of 2016. who have recently joined our team to In 2016, we aim to start the second group of managers on the Weir MBA.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 61 Sustainability Review continued Weir First Line Leadership Programme Supporting society and partner for the programme, Weir hosted a During 2014, the Weir First Line Leadership developing our people group of students in Glasgow ahead of the Programme was developed and rolled out We undertake various initiatives across Commonwealth Games.
The next event across the Group, targeted at our people the organisation in support of the needs is planned for the 2018 Games in the Gold who are stepping up to their first line of local people within the regions in which Coast, Australia.
management role or are preparing to we operate.
This programme has added to our Diversity and inclusion Management and Leadership Development Arkwright Scholarships: The Arkwright We seek to recruit and develop people Framework and is a key building block Scholarships Trust is a registered UK charity regardless of background or personal developing future managers and leaders to that identifies, selects and engages the circumstance.
All of our businesses operate ensure the ongoing success of our business.
engineering industry in offering two-year in compliance with the inclusion and diversity scholarships to 15-16 year old students laws and regulations in their respective The programme offers a blended solution who are focused on pursuing a career in countries.
The majority of our operating that is built around 12 key Weir leadership engineering, either through apprenticeships, companies have a diversity and inclusion attributes and is accessible via the Weir further or higher education.
We supported policy in place.
University see below, making it a flexible three scholars in 2012 and 2013 and have development resource that first time engaged with another two students in 2014.
On 2 January 2015, we employed 16,347 managers can fit round the demands In 2015, we will look to expand this type people across the Group, an increase of their job.
of initiative into our international markets.
Of our 16,347 employees, 14,317 are male and 2,030 Since its launch in June 2014, over 600 Armed Forces Covenant: The Weir Group are female.
There are nine Directors of people have started the programme, with is among a growing list of organisations The Weir Group PLC: seven males and over 1,000 learning modules accessed.
which have signed the UK Governments two females.
The Board Diversity Policy Armed Forces Covenant.
The document is to maintain a significant level of female Weir University is a written and publicised voluntary representation on the Board.
The Weir University is an online learning pledge from businesses and charitable resource which provides all employees organisations which wish to demonstrate The Senior Management Group is made up with access to continuous professional their concrete support for the armed forces of 302 people, 269 of which are male and development materials such as e-learning community.
The covenant commits Weir to 33 are female.
In addition, there are 99 courses, presentations and reading material.
supporting the armed forces and its alumni individuals who are directors of subsidiary This online resource continues to evolve, by employing veterans, offering flexibility companies of The Weir Group PLC, who are providing modules on topics such as health to employees who are reservists and not part of our Senior Management Group.
and safety, engineering, procurement, supporting local cadet units.
While the Of these, 90 are male and 9 are female.
marketing, lean manufacturing principles, document has been produced by the UK planning and project management, diversity, Armed Forces community, the Group aims A joint cross-business group is in place to leadership, finance, IT and supply chain.
to adopt these principles, where possible, drive best practice in embracing diversity in every region in which it operates.
and inclusion across the organisation Access to the Weir University is available and our Finance Director, Jon Stanton, to employees across the Group and user CSCLeaders: A number of our leaders is the executive sponsor for diversity numbers continue to increase.
Since its undertook specialist leadership development and inclusion.
launch in 2011, over 7,700 hours of training programmes during the year.
One such have been delivered.
More content, aligned programme was CSCLeaders, a global In 2014, Jon and our customer EDF Energy to business requirements, will be added leadership development conference run were interviewed about the importance to Weir University in 2015, including by Common Purpose which assembles of diversity and inclusion in the customer Infosmart: modules on information exceptional senior people from across supplier relationship.
The video was security and intellectual property: and the Commonwealth to tackle challenges promoted internally to employees through further Code of Conduct online training.
that businesses, governments and society Weirs internal employee blog and can face today, with the aim of building global be viewed online at weir.
co. uk careers Developing our graduates relationships for the future.
In addition, we Our graduate development programme developed a global project plan to address was established in 2011 and is designed Primary Engineer: Primary Engineer is a diversity and inclusion issues, changing our to provide people joining Weir as a graduate UK not-for-profit organisation established recruitment protocol accordingly, including with greater leadership understanding and in 2005 which aims to encourage young equal opportunity monitoring and engaging experience.
It prepares our graduates to people to consider careers in Science, our Group Executive in an unconscious take on more demanding roles as their Technology, Engineering and Mathematics bias workshop.
career within the Group develops.
In July 2014, we recruited a total of 19 graduates from a Weir became a founding member of We are a member of Race for Opportunity, variety of professional disciplines.
A further Primary Engineers Institution of Primary the race campaign from Business in the 17 graduates from a previous intake from Engineers and Institution of Secondary Community, and Opportunity Now, the across the world attended the wellEngineers which was launched at the women at work campaign from Business established Weir Graduate Development House of Lords in London.
Race for Opportunity Programme in Scotland.
In 2015, another is committed to improving employment 20 graduates will attend this programme.
33Fifty: 33Fifty is a Global Leader opportunities for ethnic minorities across Experience for young Commonwealth the UK.
Opportunity Now empowers During 2015, we will continue to improve leaders aged between 18 and 25. employers to accelerate change for our Graduate Development Framework The name comes from the fact that women in the workplace.
to ensure that we provide a best-in-class 33% of the worlds population lives in personal development offering to our the Commonwealth, and 50% of those graduate population.
In July, as the corporate 62 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Succession planning our financial performance and highlighting Employee engagement is measured Over 140 years of knowledge and expertise areas of focus, including safety.
Videos throughout the year using a combination has enabled Weir to become the global were also used to support Value Chain of methods, including Net Promoter engineering solutions provider that it is today.
Excellence communications, diversity and scoring which assesses and evaluates We recognise the absolute importance of inclusion, education and understanding of employee satisfaction.
strong succession planning to identify our our markets.
engineers and leaders of the future.
As such, Further information on our employment we have developed a robust management The Group publishes an online newspolicies and employee involvement and and leadership development framework letter, available at weir-bulletin.
co. uk feedback initiatives is contained in the which supports the succession planning in eight languages.
Directors Report section below at page 109. process across each of our businesses.
Case study: Our people We recognise the importance of balance in developing talent from within the Group, as well as bringing in external expertise in order to successfully compete in the Developing our competitive markets of the future.
Initiatives at a local level seek to ensure graduate network knowledge is retained within the business.
In various parts of our business, we pair high potential employees with mentors who are Weir has recruited around 150 graduates nearing retirement.
This programme actively supports succession planning and knowledge since its graduate development framework transition from our highly-skilled workforce.
Employee engagement We believe strong employee engagement In 2014, the inaugural Weir Graduate The week included a tour of Weirs facility is an important attribute of a successful Alumni Programme was held close to in Venlo which manufactures equipment and innovative organisation.
In the past Weir Minerals Venlo operational base for the mining and aggregates market.
12 months, we have been developing in the Netherlands and was attended by The graduates, who are based across our employee engagement channels.
24 graduates who were recruited in 2011 Weirs global operations, had the and 2012.
The week-long event enabled opportunity to learn more about the At our offices, factories, workshops and the graduates to continue their personal, Minerals division, the Venlo facility and service centres across the globe, our team and business learning and develop the products which are manufactured employees take part in regular meetings their network with their peers.
In 2015, around 30 graduates known as Town Halls.
These sessions who were recruited in 2013 will attend typically last 60 minutes and are designed Working as a group, the graduates this programme in Fort Worth, Texas.
to educate, inform and share knowledge undertook a problem-solving exercise and understanding of best practice and relevant to the Weir Group and designed occasionally include external speakers.
to test their knowledge, skills and ability Topics regularly featured include safety, to work together.
With input from conduct and operational performance.
external facilitators, the graduates were given a refresher on essential business An internal employee blog called skills including effective public speaking, Talking Weir was introduced in late leadership and personal development.
2013 and is consistently one of the most There was also an opportunity to reflect popular areas of our intranet.
In 2014, on their experience of the Weir Group the blog featured articles on a range of Graduate Development Programme subjects including safety, diversity, working with Weirs Head of Learning and with our communities, innovation, personal Development, Jim McHarg.
development and ethics from employees at all levels of the organisation.
Comments on articles are encouraged.
Members of the Group Executive meet monthly to discuss operational issues and Group strategy.
In August, we began publishing monthly blogs from members of the Group Executive, highlighting what is discussed at these meetings and demonstrating openness and transparency from the most senior level of the Group.
In 2014, the Group began to make greater use of video to communicate internally.
In January, the Chief Executive published a start of the year message focusing on safety and performance.
In March and July, an internal interview with the Chief Executive was published, talking about The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 63 Sustainability Review continued Our Communities The Group is fortunate to be a part of Case study: Our communities many communities around the world.
We value the contributions these communities make to our businesses Weir Cares in and strive to make a positive impact in return.
the community Wherever we operate, we aim to: be responsible employers and neighbours: respect the communities we operate in: strive to make a positive impact by the Weir Cares is the name of the corporate social responsible running of our operations: and responsibility CSR programme at Weir India, invest in the communities for the long term mutual benefit of the community which started in 2008 and is largely driven and Weir.
We believe the best people to look after the interests of communities are those who During 2014, Weir India undertook a classes.
The school received the award live and work there.
That is why we devolve review of its CSR activities, with a CSR of Best Regional School in 2014.
Weir responsibility for community relations to committee being formed in March 2014. volunteers also support the high school the people who know them best our local The agreed budget and activities were in the same village, conducting health businesses.
Like any good neighbour, we determined with the involvement of the education for the pupils and sponsoring the build close relationships by regularly having core volunteer groups at all the business development of a science activity centre.
open conversations so that local people are units in India.
well informed about any of our projects that In Peenya, an industrial area in Bangalore, might affect them.
Where issues do arise, During 2014, over 1,500 hours were spent Weir India supports various initiatives we listen carefully and do our best to help volunteering by employees at Weir India.
including working in partnership with find a solution.
Weir Cares identifies underprivileged the local Government Industrial Training groups and works alongside or in Institute ITI.
Since 2008, Weir volunteers We support our local communities through partnership with non-governmental have been coaching students at the ITI charitable contributions and by being a organisations NGOs whose focus is on writing their resumes and interview source of employment, education and on education, health and sustainable techniques, enhancing their chances of training.
In addition, we support our livelihoods.
During the past six years, employment.
In 2014, volunteers also employees in their community initiatives the number of partners has increased explored a new livelihood enhancing and fundraising activities.
For instance, Weir from two to eighteen.
One of the main initiative to improve hands-on training Gabbioneta in Italy participated in Green projects undertaken includes responding for students of the ITI, where Weir is Day which is part of an ongoing initiative to the healthcare needs in Gokul Village, undertaking to repair and maintain five called Zero Impact.
The Sanjeevini Health Clinic was turner section machines and provide trees and helped maintain a local park in set up by Weir BDK in 2011 and employs monthly hands-on training sessions for order to reduce CO emissions.
Weir Oil & medical staff to provide highly subsidised groups of students using these machines.
2 Gas Services in Aberdeen has also engaged treatment to the community.
In addition, in June 2014, Weir volunteers a local furniture manufacturing company and NGO staff at Bangalore Medical which employs individuals who receive Weir BDK also adopted the Government Services Trust provided HIV AIDS training in joinery and associated trades to Higher Primary School, in Gokul, Hubli, education to over 500 students at help them gain employment in those fields.
Since then, the company has the ITI.
In the wider community, Weir supported infrastructure development Cares volunteers facilitated the STOP 2014 marked the hundredth anniversary through the building of a new school block Malnutrition initiative during 2014. of the outbreak of World War I and Weir with three classrooms, toilet facilities and A health screening camp was set up to helped to commemorate the sacrifices an activity centre.
In addition, they have help malnourished and underprivileged made by so many in that conflict by invested in the educational needs of the children in Peenya and 40 children were sponsoring the UKs Armed Forces Day children through the provision of a full-time provided with free medication.
celebrations, which took place in June.
computer teacher and English speaking The interaction of our businesses is far reaching but is governed by our desire to support and improve the communities in which we work.
Key priorities are the improvement of health and education of both our employees and the local community.
It is viewed that contributing to these two areas can have an enduring effect on the wellbeing of the individuals and the community as a whole.
64 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements As a 144 year old engineering company, we Following its pilot run in 2013, the Weir SPM held a health fair in 2014 where are particularly keen to develop engineering Group continues to support the Primary employees were offered free screenings, excellence.
Weir was the first company Engineer initiative, and also the Arkwright including blood pressure, BMI and in Scotland to set up an apprentice school scholarships, both detailed above in the cholesterol, by a health care provider.
and our commitment to training is as strong Our People section.
2014 also marked the in the 21st century as it was in the 19th.
third successive year of support from the Weir Minerals Brasil promoted a health Group towards a 3D printing programme, week which involved a variety of workshops, Charitable giving run in partnership with Scottish Council nutritional advice and medical diagnosis In 2014, the total amount of charitable for Development and Industry and the sessions at their plant in Jundia, So Paulo.
donations made by Group companies was Department of Design, Manufacture and The event was for all employees and 597,700 2013: 457,000.
We do not Engineering Management at the University contractors and approximately 380 people make any political donations.
cash and non-cash items such as services, provided by Weir to cover the purchase materials, employee time and use of of ten 3D printers to selected secondary As well as contributing funds or time towards corporate facilities.
schools and a contribution towards the several non-profit organisations locally in support provided by student mentors.
California, Weir Minerals Floway is partnered with Valley Childrens Healthcare formerly Charitable donations In 2014, the Group agreed to a sustainable Childrens Hospital Central California.
Big partnership in the development and Heart, Little Hands is a project the hospital Community 42% operation of the Newlands Junior College has created as an opportunity for volunteers Education 36% in Glasgow.
This is a newly established to donate a designated period of time to Health 22% vocational school giving career opportunities conduct an activity for the hospitalised to young people who may be disengaged children, which employees at Weir Minerals with the traditional education system, and Floway participate in each month during who have the potential to excel in their field.
In May 2014, the Group was one of the Employee activities main sponsors of the Be Your Personal The Group is very proud of the charitable Best campaign with 150 young school work that our people undertake.
Our Community 42% pupils from all over Scotland being inspired businesses operate their own policies for Education 36% by Sir Chris Hoy and Katherine Grainger to supporting these, whether by matching Health 22% be their personal best in life.
This was donations, providing support or equipment run in partnership with The Winning or by allowing employees to participate in Scotland Foundation.
charitable activities during working hours.
The Group continues to work in partnership with AMAR International Charitable Foundation Weir Minerals Multiflo supports the A small selection of the numerous projects AMAR, a British not-for-profit organisation.
Mechanical Engineering Scholarship at the undertaken by our employees in 2014 is In 2013, we made a commitment to support University of the Sunshine Coast in Australia, highlighted below: AMAR financially over the next three years to by the provision of funds to the scholarship Employees at Weir Specialty Pumps built a improve health, education and training in Basra, winners.
These individuals, along with others patio at a home for adults with disabilities.
Iraq, where Weir has operations.
In 2014, the from universities in Queensland, seek work Each month, employees at Weir SPM in Group contributed approximately 100,000 experience placements as part of their Texas, USA, cook meals for families with to AMAR, which has been used to support engineering programme.
Support for these sick children at nearby hospitals.
a health conference and the running of two initiatives provides a career pathway into At Weir SPM in Canada, employees womens training centres.
engineering for the undergraduates and made a contribution of CAD$4,000 to develops an engineering employee pipeline a local food bank.
Employees at Weir Minerals Netherlands Our businesses provide experience and dedicated 100 working hours to charitable training to develop the next generation Weir Minerals Latin America participates initiatives during the year.
Whilst our focus may be in programmes in Brazil, Chile and Peru, Weir Minerals Andean employees spent on engineering, we also provide work where students are invited from schools a day building a local community garden.
placements and internships across all and universities to work as apprentices Employees at Weir Minerals Linatex sectors.
Our placement projects allow within the local businesses.
At the end North America volunteer for a variety school children and young people from of the apprenticeship, if they match the of roles, including sitting on various around the world to see the opportunities required competencies they may be non-profit boards or as firefighters or available to them by working for a offered a job with the Group.
emergency medical technicians in global business.
Health With the aim of promoting opportunities for Being a truly global company, health can education and careers in engineering, the play a key issue in the communities in Weir Group holds an Engineering in Schools which we operate.
The Group supports the competition.
For the third consecutive year, health of its employees, their families and secondary school pupils across Scotland communities through various programmes were asked to produce a report and present and initiatives, which are often run in on the topic The importance of engineering partnership with local service providers.
This years winners were A small selection of the activities undertaken a team from Arbroath High School, who by Weir companies is outlined below.
impressed the panel with their insights into renewable energy and won 3,000 for their school.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 65 Sustainability Review continued Ethics Keith Ruddock Group General Counsel and Company Secretary A critical feature of the Group operating as a well-managed and sustainable company is our commitment to doing business at all times in an ethical and transparent manner.
organisation and part of the global This includes the Senior Management Group, All employees are expected to Transparency International TI movement.
as well as sales and marketing, purchasing maintain the highest standards The Business Integrity Forum is the UKs and finance employees within certain sectors of integrity consistent with our leading anti-corruption forum for businesses of the Companys operations.
in all sectors, comprising companies and training will be targeted at all divisional professional firms of all sizes.
Approximately 2,300 A revised edition of the Code of Conduct membership, companies are demonstrating employees have already completed the was launched in January 2014 and full their support for TIs work, helping TI in its online compliance training programme, and details are provided below on page 67. mission to reduce corruption in both the a further 1,700 are currently undertaking the As noted in the Our People section above, public and the private sector throughout training.
After completion of the assessment, we also redefined our values in consultation the world.
All members sign up to a set all participants are asked to complete a with business teams across the Group.
of principles and are dedicated to ensuring compliance statement to confirm that they As part of this process, we have also their operations and business dealings have read, understood and comply with created a set of behaviours which underpin are corruption free.
Through the Forum, the Code of Conduct in their work for Weir.
These behaviours are not new companies have the opportunity to have The completion of the e-learning programme to us and are already demonstrated in our well-informed discussions with peers and online certification is monitored by the operations across the world.
By defining and experts, increasing their knowledge Company Secretary.
these behaviours, however, we are clearly in relation to risks, mitigating measures setting out what we expect of our people and emerging trends, as well as making The Code of Conduct is also reinforced now and in the future.
These behaviours a positive contribution to TI-UKs thought through various means of communications should be exhibited in all aspects of our leadership and to the wider international with our employees, such as induction day to day business operations.
training, Town Hall meetings, conferences, training courses and our 100 day integration The Group has been a member of the Code of Conduct plan for new acquisitions.
The Code applies FTSE4Good Index since September 2013.
The Code of Conduct provides a clear to everyone who is employed by the Weir Created by the global index company FTSE framework for decision-making, highlighting Group and compliance is of the utmost Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series the values and behaviours we expect our importance.
Anyone found in breach of that is designed to facilitate investment in people to demonstrate whilst making those the Code may be liable to disciplinary companies that meet globally recognised decisions.
It provides details on how we action, up to and including termination of corporate responsibility standards.
FTSE expect our people to conduct themselves employment or cancellation of contract.
Group confirms that the Company has been on a day-to-day basis and guidance on independently assessed according to the where to go for help.
Competition law FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the During 2014, the Company completed a requirements to become a constituent of Supporting the second edition of the comprehensive review of its competition the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Code of Conduct is a mandatory e-learning law anti-trust policies and procedures.
A new provider was appointed Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series during 2014, with the programme being As a result, the Weir Group Competition have met stringent environmental, social rolled out towards the end of the year.
Law Manual was produced and is accessible and governance criteria, and are positioned The first wave of training was targeted to all employees via the Weir intranet.
to capitalise on the benefits of responsible at head office and other Group functions, business practice.
The Company is very proud Weir China, Weir India and Weir Africa The document was designed specifically to be included in the FTSE4Good Index.
employees who are deemed to have to meet our business needs in very close a potentially higher risk of exposure to cooperation with our businesses.
It provides The Company is also a member of bribery and corruption as a consequence an overview of competition law: a description Transparency International UKs Business of their decision-making responsibilities of how competition law is enforced across Integrity Forum, having joined in September with regard to third parties, including the world: guidance with respect to dealings 2011.
Transparency International UK TI-UK customers, suppliers, and sales agents.
and meetings with competitors: guidance is the countrys leading anti-corruption 66 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements on dealings with customers, distributors Case study: Ethics and agents: a review of illegal and high risk matters such as price fixing, bid-rigging activities, market and territory sharing or allocation agreements and abusing market Updated Code powers: and guidance on exchanging information about competitors or customers.
of Conduct Accompanying the manual, the Company will be delivering both face to face and e-learning competition law training during The Code of Conduct the Code covers 2015, focusing in particular on employees in roles which have been identified as a wide range of topics, including anti-bribery potentially high risk.
and corruption, competition anti-trust law, Human rights developing our people, health and safety, As part of its human rights policy, the use of Group property and resources, Group has adopted a series of human rights principles across all of its businesses.
These principles relate to anti-discriminatory attitudes and respect for ethical values: A major review of the Code was secondly, to provide guidelines to help employee rights, which include health undertaken during 2013 with input our people follow the Weir Way: and and safety, living wages, working hours, from various sectors of the Group.
thirdly, to enable all employees to raise freedom of association and the right to The revised Code received Board concerns or ask questions if they have collective bargaining: and prohibition of approval in January 2014 and was rolled any doubts about someones actions child labour.
The revised edition or activities.
reflects developments in a number of By promoting sound ethical values and areas, both externally and within the The Code of Conduct provides our people human rights principles, Weir aims to be Group, since it was first introduced with a clear framework on which to base a business with which people are proud in January 2011.
In particular, these decision making and ensure that the to be involved.
The Weir Group Human changes address developments in the Company consistently operates to a high Rights Policy expresses the organisations areas of anti-bribery and corruption and standard.
It supports our teams to ensure commitment to promoting and upholding in relation to competition anti-trust law.
that they demonstrate both integrity in the the common standard of achievement for workplace and in conducting the Groups all people and all nations, as endorsed by Reflecting the global nature of our business, business activities while respecting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
we have translated the document into 12 our working relationships and place Other guiding principles include those languages.
The Code can be accessed by in the world.
of the Conventions of the International our employees via our Global Intranet, as Labour Organisation and the United Nations well as being available to download from If there is any doubt about their potential Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Copies are also shared with conduct, employees are asked to consider These manifest themselves in Weirs our key suppliers, customers, agents and the following questions: anti-discriminatory attitudes and respect distributors.
As before, it reinforces our Is what I am doing or being asked for ethical values, providing our people shared core values and behaviours to do legal?
with a safe and healthy working known to us all as the Weir Way.
Does it comply with the Code environment and fairness in employment of Conduct?
For example, national living wage The Code has three main purposes: Am I setting a good example?
is applied and working hours determined firstly, to clearly set out the behaviour Would I be comfortable reading about in accordance with applicable laws, as well we expect from all of our employees: this in the media?
as the recognition and non-discrimination of rights of association in collective bargaining.
In addition, the Group has a zero tolerance of the employment of children in any of its businesses.
We will not exploit anyone, wherever in the world we are working.
We will respect the human rights of all those working for or with us, and of the people in the communities where we operate.
We will not do business with companies, organisations or individuals that we believe are not working to acceptable human rights standards.
We expect employees to maintain the highest standards of conformity with these principles and their adoption, and adherence is contained within Weirs Code of Conduct.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 67 Sustainability Review continued Human rights continued External sales agents All reports are investigated.
During 2014, To ensure this policy is upheld in practice, in The Group engages a number of external 51 reports were submitted via the Weir addition to Group wide assurance activity, all sales agents across the globe to act on its Ethics Hotline and each report was fully operating companies complete a compliance behalf in locations where it does not have investigated.
Confidentiality and anonymity scorecard self-assessment twice per annum a permanent sales presence, or in regard are important features of the Ethics Hotline, which assesses compliance with Group to specific projects.
The Group has a sales and both elements are maintained where policies and procedures.
agents manual which sets out the Group requested by the reporting party.
In 2014, requirements with regard to appointing and both anonymity and confidentiality Suppliers and third parties reappointing agents, as well as the ongoing was sought in 73% of the cases, and We source raw materials, components and monitoring requirements.
Due diligence confidentiality only in 26% of the cases.
Our suppliers is performed prior to all appointments and Complainants can receive updates and the play a critical role in our business and reappointments and overseen by the legal details of the outcome of the investigation our relationships with them are based department.
The standard Weir contract via the Ethics Hotline when it is possible on achieving best performance, product, must be used unless the legal department to provide this in adherence with privacy delivery, service and total cost in an ethical has agreed modifications, but the terms of or local legal restrictions.
Embracing a the agreements always include stipulation closer relationship with our key suppliers is that agents must comply with the Code of The Strategic Report, covering pages 1 fundamental to our Value Chain Excellence Conduct.
The agents are required to confirm to 68 of the Annual Report and Financial initiative.
In 2014, we have introduced in writing their compliance with the Code Statements 2014, has been approved by a supplier business review programme of Conduct.
the Board of Directors in accordance with designed to fully engage our key suppliers The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report in performance reviews and mutually Gifts and hospitality and Directors Report Regulations 2013. agreed improvement programmes.
We recognise that gifts and hospitality have the potential to create a conflict of interest, On behalf of the Board of Directors The Group recognises that its responsibilities or the perception of a conflict of interest.
extend to our supply chain.
We have a Supply As a result, there are Group policies with Chain Policy which sets out the minimum regard to receiving and giving gifts and standards we expect our suppliers to abide hospitality from, and to, third parties.
In no by with respect to: circumstances should gifts or hospitality how they treat their workforce: be solicited, and they should not place the Keith Ruddock legal and regulatory compliance: recipient under any obligation.
Company Secretary health and safety: 25 February 2015 business ethics: and All gifts and hospitality above the minimum environmental standards.
threshold must be pre-approved using an online gifts and hospitality register.
Our During 2014, the Group has continued to Internal Audit team assess compliance work on increasing the level of contractual with the Groups gifts and hospitality agreements in place with our supply base.
policies during audit visits and undertake These now equate to over 50% of our monthly reviews of the register, which total spend.
Weir has also joined the UK are shared with senior management.
Government sponsored Prompt Payment Code, which is a scheme designed to Reporting issues support on time payment to small and The Group encourages our people to medium sized suppliers SMEs.
discuss any ethical concerns they may have with local management or the legal In addition, our Code of Conduct is issued department.
In addition, the Weir Ethics to our key suppliers.
Assessments are Hotline, an independent and confidential undertaken with regard to compliance telephone helpline and an online reporting with Group standards as part of the system is available for our employees, vetting process for new suppliers.
We also partners and third parties to call or audit our key suppliers regularly to assess email with any concerns that they have ongoing compliance with the Supply Chain concerning unethical behaviour.
Calls to Policy and other relevant Group standards.
the helpline are free and lines are open Wherever possible, we work with our 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
suppliers to support them to address Reports can be made in a wide range of weaknesses identified.
languages, reflecting our global footprint.
Online reporting remains the most common The Group is committed to working only form of reporting matters, with 76% of with third parties, including customers, reports being made in this way.
sub-contractors, suppliers and joint venture and strategic alliance partners, whose business ethics and behaviours are consistent with our own Code of Conduct.
During 2015, we will be increasing our focus in this area through the introduction of a web based compliance tool, designed to assess our key suppliers compliance with our Code of Conduct.
68 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
