MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainable development is an essential component of Antofagastas decision-making process and business strategy.
To achieve sustainable development, the Group is committed to operational excellence, safety, talent management, environmental management and working with employees and local communities.
GUIDED BY BEST PRACTICE HUMAN RIGHTS ICMM Membership POLICIES AND STANDARDS The Groups social strategy focuses The Group respects the rights of its workers In May 2014 Antofagasta became a on responsible behaviour, risk and contractors, as well as those of everyone member of the International Council management and supporting local that comes into contact with the business.
on Mining and Metals ICMM, the development.
Environmental strategy This is reflected in the Groups commitments CEO-led industry organisation dedicated covers environmental risk and impact to employees, contractors and local to promoting the highest principles management, resource efficiency communities in the tables below.
and standards for sustainable mining.
Acceptance by the ICMM required INDIGENOUS PEOPLES Performance is measured by social the Group to conduct an extensive and environmental Key Performance The Group has no operations involving review of its performance against the Indicators KPIs.
The Group it has hadsome exploration activity For more information on the Groups KPIs, initiated an independent audit, which was please see pages 30to31 which has required engaging with submitted to an independent expert panel More information on the Groups social and indigenous communities and has been selected by the ICMM.
On the panels environmental KPIs is included in the Antofagasta successful in maintaining a respectful recommendation, Antofagasta was invited Minerals 2013 Sustainability Report, which can and mutually beneficial relationship befoundat www.
co. uk to become an ICMM member in May in accord with International Labour 2014 and is now formally committed to The Groups sustainability priorities Organisation ILO Convention 169 complying with the highest sustainability listed on page 52 are those issues most andICMM recommendations.
standards and industry best practices.
In 2013 the Group 1 defined materiality based on the GRI G4 guidelines, which are driven by stakeholder engagement, risk assessment and peer benchmarking.
These definitions are EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS updated regularly.
High health and safety standards More detail on this materiality process can be found in the 2013 Antofagasta Minerals Sustainability Report Fair wages and good labour relations which can be found at www.
co. uk Prevention of discrimination, harassment and bullying Provision of good-quality accommodation and meals Opportunities for training and development COMMUNITY Prevention of corruption and malpractices Prevention or mitigation of environmental and social impacts Respect for communities rights, culture and heritage Engagement in dialogue through the mining cycle from exploration to closure 1 T he Global Reporting Initiative GRI framework is a Listening and responding to grievances reporting system that provides metrics and methods for measuring and reporting  impacts Support of community development and performance.
Using the GRI framework is a key commitment for ICMM member companies.
50 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE ETHICS ANTOFAGASTA PLC BOARD AND VALUES The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that sustainability is embedded in the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Audit and Risk Nomination and Sustainability Remuneration The Board is assisted by four Committees, Committee Governance and Stakeholder and Talent including the Sustainability and Stakeholder Committee Management Committee Management Committee.
This Committee Committee monitors the Groups performance and strategies for addressing challenges and risks in relation to health and safety, and its relationship with communities and the environment.
The Committee reviews and updates operational sustainability standards, Business Divisions monitors relevant KPIs and highlights the most complex and important issues to the Board.
More can be seen on the workings of the Board and Transport Mining Water Committees on pages 67to102 ETHICAL STANDARDS AND VALUES Contractors are also made aware of the The agreed values are: Code and employees and contractors can The Groups Code of Ethics covers issues Respect anonymously report any unethical conduct such as conflicts of interest, prevention through a dedicated phone line, orvia Sustainability of corruption and bribery, confidentiality the intranet.
of information, safeguarding of working Excellence conditions, elimination of discrimination In 2013, a major project to reinforce the Health and safety and harassment, respect for human rights, corporate culture of Antofagasta was respect for neighbouring communities and carried out focusing on the definition of the Innovation mechanisms for reporting infringements.
Some three-quarters Forward thinking All employees are required to sign the of the Groups workforce participated For more information on the Code of Ethics, Code upon joining the Company and in a consultation process to draw up a please see page 77 complete periodic refresher courses on new Charter of Values that underpins the Codes contents.
The Code is available the corporate leadership model and to employees on the Group intranet and the performance management of from the human resources department or each employee.
Antofagasta plc | 51 MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS FOCUSED ON THE ISSUES THAT MATTER MOST The Groups sustainability strategy supports the business strategy by strengthening its social licence, delivering operational efficiency and facilitating access to resources.
The sustainability strategy focuses on Safety Water the issues most material to the Group 1 4 and its main stakeholders as identified Protecting the health, safety and wellbeing Being efficient, using sea water and through risk assessments, stakeholder of employees and contractors ensuring the availability and quality engagement and GRI guidelines.
The ofwater for other users Groups main sustainability issues are: Talent management Energy and climate change 2 5 and labour relations Improving efficiency in energy use and increasing the Groups use of renewable Building and maintaining a high-quality energy sources andcommitted workforce Community Managing environmental 3 6 relations impact Maintaining positive relations with Identifying, preventing and managing the communities near the Groups operations Groups operations environmental impact and investing in local development on air quality, water quality and availability, greenhouse gas emissions, biodiversity and cultural heritage 52 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 1 SAFETY Despite all the efforts made to focus on safety, in 2014 the Group failed to achieve its zero fatalities goal.
There were five fatalities during the year in three separate incidents.
Antofagasta is well aware that achieving zero fatalities is a long journey and setbacks must not derail that process.
The Group has redoubled its efforts and is striving to achieve its target in 2015.
MANAGEMENT FOCUS Why it matters Antofagasta remains dedicated to achieving In focus its zero fatalities goal and improving overall Ensuring its employees and contractors safety at its operations.
A corporate safety health and safety is of paramount management team was formed in 2013 to importance to the Group, as reflected NEW SAFETY MEASURES strengthen existing teams at each operation.
in the corporate Charter of Values During 2014 a number of new measures Together they have introduced a new safety and the Groups strategic objectives.
were introduced, including: and occupational health model based on Major incidents impact peoples international best practices that focuses Identification of the top five high-potential health, company morale, reputation onpreventing high-potential fatal accidents.
risks in each operating unit, definition of and production.
This approach is based on three pillars: specific controls for these and assigning individual responsibility for implementing 1 Early identification of high-potential risks these controls and the definition of controls Focus on high-potential near-miss reporting Performance 2 Reporting high-potential near misses Sustained efforts to raise standards and share 3 Safety leadership lessons between operations Development of specific corporate PERFORMANCE safety standards and collaboration with Despite the Groups safety efforts, there contractor companies were five fatalities in 2014.
In January, a male 1.9 An intensive safety awareness-raising contractor was killed while working on a campaign with highly-visible leadership from pipeline section in Centinela.
In September, senior management, including dedicated site Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR a female truck driver was involved in a visits by the Group CEO fatal accident at Los Pelambres and in October three male contractors lost their lives in a vehicle accident at Centinela.
As a result, the Group has adopted higher driving standards with tighter enforcement, including mandatory fatigue control and the wider use of speed control devices.
Antofagasta remains committed to the safety model introduced in 2013 and to achieving zero fatalities across all of its operations.
Overall safety performance is measured by the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR and the All Injury Frequency Rate AIFR.
In 2014, the Groups LTIFR remained stable at 1.9, despite anapproximate 30% increase in the total workforce.
The AIFR increased from 3.9 in 2013 to 4.9 in 2014, but it must be noted that only 12% were high-potential accidents, that could have caused death orpermanent incapacity.
Antofagasta plc | 53 MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 1 SAFETY All operations have a management system Occupational health plans seek to keep PREVENTING HEALTH RISKS aligned with the OHSAS 18001 standard.
workers healthy and free from common In 2014 the Company undertook an exercise Safety managers report to the Corporate and work-related injuries or illnesses.
to determine an acceptable health baseline Health and Safety Unit and to their operations Work stations and equipment are designed for its employees and contractors.
This study General Manager, who in turn reports to take into account employees health and identified six factors at the workplace that had weekly to the Vice-President of Operations.
Employees and contractors are potential to cause illness resulting in death Performance is also reported to the Board encouraged to report immediately unsafe or partial incapacity - silica dust, sulphuric of Directors monthly.
Safety performance or unhealthy working conditions.
On site, acid haze, ionic radiation, solar radiation, is tied to individual remuneration for senior the Group promotes a healthy and balanced height and noise.
Once these factors were management and employees.
diet and provides sporting facilities and identified, critical controls were established equipment.
Each employee is entitled to Towards the end of 2014, 700 contractor for each one and a campaign was launched athorough annual medical check-up paid companies were assessed to identify those toraise awareness of these risks.
with high exposure to any of the identified high-risk potential activities.
Over 200 companies were prioritised to receive additional technical support, ensuring full implementation of Antofagastas safety model.
Contractors are regularly audited to ensure compliance with the Groups strategic model for managing safety and health risks.
Data includes employees and contractors.
LTIFR: Number of accidents with lost time during the year per million hours worked.
AIFR: Number of accidents with and without lost time during the year per million hours worked.
54 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 2 TALENT MANAGEMENT AND LABOUR RELATIONS In a world of volatile markets and talent shortages, recruitment and retention are a constant challenge.
Antofagasta seeks to be a preferred employer and to achieve this the Groups human resources strategy is to develop, promote and maintain a strong value proposition for employees.
A NEW MANAGEMENT APPROACH Why it matters The Group has an ambitious long-term Performance vision for operational excellence, world-class The Groups management strongly performance in health and safety, talent believes that internal mobility, training and management, stakeholder management, professional development opportunities labour relations and capitalising on foster engaged employees.
Human resources employee retention and promotes management supports this business 76% sustained productivity and growth.
strategy through: process standardisation and best internal recruitment for key positions over practice sharing: total job openings.
ensuring the necessary talent is available when required: promotion of shared corporate values: and In focus corporate management of critical human resources processes with a high positive impact in terms of competitiveness, A COMMON GROUP IDENTITY employee value proposition, talent In 2014, the Group worked to create a development and capturing synergies.
stronger sense of common identity and to standardise best practice across its The human resources management model operations, using a common Charter of seeks to develop organisational capabilities Values defined after an intensive internal toaddress the challenges in each of the consultation process.
These values help Groups strategic pillars.
This goal translates guide key processes such as business into, for example, succession plans for key alignment, performance management and positions and leadership development.
As part of the For more information on the Groups strategy, effort to embed these values, a recognition please see page 28 programme has been implemented across DEVELOPMENT the Group.
A new staff performance appraisal system was implemented across the Group.
This aimed to emphasise individual performance, foster meritocracy and develop leadership competencies, while aligning employees targets with the Groups objectives.
Antofagasta plc | 55 MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 2 TALENT MANAGEMENT AND LABOUR RELATIONS The corporate trainee programme recruits STRONG LABOUR RELATIONS young professionals with the potential to Labour relations grounded in trust, constant become future leaders, giving them exposure dialogue and good working conditions reflect in the organisation and offering internships our Charter of Values and are conducive to across the Group.
Since this initiative was achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
launched in 2010, 114 young professionals In 2014 the Group had a total workforce of have joined the programme, of whom 28 26,151 including employees and contractors, are women.
compared to 20,660 people in 2013, of which Gender diversity remains a challenge in 6,609 were employees.
The increase in the many sectors of the Chilean economy, total workforce is mainly due to the significant including mining.
Women account for number of contractors working on the 1 7.4% of the Chilean mining industrys construction of the Antucoya mine.
At Antofagasta, 10% of its At the operations the Group has eight unions: employees are women and of this 10%, two at Los Pelambres, four at Centinela, one 33%are supervisors.
2 at Michilla and one at Antucoya.
On average During 2014, there were 655 women and some 55% of the Groups employees 5,954 men employed by the Group.
There is belong to a union.
The labour contracts one woman in senior management out of a at Los Pelambres, Centinela, Michilla and total of 25 people at that level and she is a Antucoya were all renewed during 2014 after member of the Executive Committee.
Michillas labour contract included severance In March 2014, the Company welcomed its agreements for its workers in anticipation of first woman Director to the Board, which has the mines closure in 2015.
The new labour a total of 11 Directors.
The Group continues contracts at Los Pelambres, Centinela and to make efforts to increase the number of Antucoya have fixed the pay increase for women it employs, while maintaining its employees until 2018 when contracts will policy of recruiting the best candidate for be renegotiated.
Good labour relations are evident from the fact that none of the Groups operations has experienced a strike since its activities began.
More information on the social and environmental provisions for Michillas closure can be found in the Antofagasta Minerals 2014 Sustainability Report.
2 Antocoya will start operations in 2015.
56 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 3 COMMUNITY RELATIONS Over the last few years Chile has faced growing opposition to industrial projects, often including legal action.
The Group has recently adopted a new approach to stakeholder engagement and community relations, declaring a long-term commitment to enhancing local development in conjunction with public sector and other private stakeholders.
MANAGEMENT AND STANDARDS Why it matters Responsiveness and consistency of approach Performance in dealing with the impact of the Groups Both operational continuity and future operations and managing community growth both depend on the Groups expectations are vital in demonstrating capacity to become a preferred partner respect for local people, building trust and for all stakeholders, particularly its preventing conflict.
Antofagastas approach is neighbouring communities.
Due to the $31.3m guided by its social strategy, social relations location of Los Pelambres in a narrow, policy, Code of Ethics and specific standards populated valley, the challenge is was invested by Antofagasta during for community investment and grievance particularly acute at this operation.
2014 on community projects near to management, which are aligned with ICMM its operations.
The Group has a team of professionals dedicated to stakeholder relations at each operation.
Antofagasta continues to promote a In focus grievance management procedure that allows stakeholders to raise concerns and receive formal responses.
The Group identifies A NEW APPROACH local concerns and expectations through Los Pelambres, the Groups largest ongoing dialogue.
operation, sits at the head of the Choapa Social and environmental considerations Valley and interacts with 42 different are an integral part of all project design communities.
Under the new model standards.
When applying for environmental adopted by the Group, Los Pelambres, permits, the Group must commit to together with regional and municipal specific impact prevention, mitigation and authorities, is heavily involved in a wide, compensation measures that become legally multi-stakeholder dialogue process among enforceable.
The project construction stage all these communities and other local is labour intensive and provides a window stakeholders.
The aim is to articulate of opportunity for employing local people.
a common vision for the sustainable This effort was particularly successful during development of the region, addressing the construction of Esperanza now Centinela structural challenges and bottlenecks when the Groups apprenticeship programme both related and unrelated to the mining recruited and trained 400 local workers, 10% operation and defining a portfolio of of whom were women, who later joined its projects to realise this vision funded permanent workforce.
Antofagasta plc | 57 MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 4 WATER Continental water is scarce in the central and northern parts of Chile where the Group operates.
The situation is aggravated by rising demand, non-sustainable practices and climate change.
The mining industry is a significant consumer of water and its activities can affect not only the availability of water but its quality due to the leaching of heavy metals and sulphates from waste dumps and tailings dams.
Precipitation has been below average LEADING WATER SOLUTIONS Why it matters for some years in the region where Los All of the Groups operations have water Pelambres is located.
The mine continues management plans.
Water accounting Prolonged drought in central Chile is a to take actions to mitigate the impact of records are based on the Water Accounting growing concern for all stakeholders this on current and future water availability.
Framework methodology developed by the and makes water an increasingly costly Initiatives include the improvement of water Sustainable Minerals Institute of Queensland key input.
capture and transport infrastructure, and University and the Minerals Council of research on reducing evaporation from Australia.
The Group participates in the tailings dams and recovering more water Carbon Disclosure Project Water Program, from tailings.
Los Pelambres is conducting publishing its information on water sources Performance adetailed review of its water balance and and consumption.
In 2014, Group-wide data collection methods and the identification water consumption was 47,444 million cubic of where water loss occurs and potential metres, of which 44% was sea water and the solutions.
The Company works with local remaining 56% was continental water.
communities to help them use water more The Group monitors the quantity and quality efficiently, helping to finance schemes such 44% of water in its area of influence and uses as the lining of irrigation channels and the as little high-quality continental water as installation of drip irrigation.
It also regularly of the water used at the Groups possible.
Water reuse rates as high as 85% monitors water quality and availability operations is sea water.
are achieved at some operations and the together with the affected communities Group has zero discharges to water courses.
All water is reused unless it is trapped within Over the years, Antofagasta has the tailings or evaporates.
implemented several innovative solutions to In focus address the issue of water scarcity, including pioneering the use of sea water and being the first mining company to use the more SEA WATER FOR NEW OPERATIONS water-efficient large-scale thickened tailings Centinela pioneered the use of raw sea deposit technology.
water, thus reducing the pressure on scarce continental water resources and the energy required to desalinate water.
New projects such as Antucoya and Encuentro Oxides are also designed to use raw sea water.
Centinela took on another unprecedented challenge for a project of its size when it replaced its traditional tailings dam with a higher pulp density deposit.
Among the advantages of thickened tailings is more efficient water management, less land use and better control of dust emissions from the surface of the tailings dam.
58 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 5 ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE High energy prices are affecting the competitiveness of the Chilean mining industry, while new power generation projects often face strong opposition from local communities and NGOs.
The Group has focused on seeking sources of renewable energy for its operations and its projects.
Since June 2014, 20% of Los Pelambres RESPONDING TO THE ENERGY Why it matters energy has been supplied under a long-term CHALLENGE PPA by El Arrayn, thelargest wind farm in It is key to the Groups economic Energy accounts for approximately Chile, in which theGroup has a 30% stake.
sustainability to ensure a continuous and 15% of the mining divisions operating dependable energy supply at competitive The company signed new PPAs with two costs and consumption will increase as prices.
Despite its efforts to increase energy photovoltaic solar plants currently under production grows.
efficiency, energy consumption will increase construction.
One will come onstream in the as output expands and ore grades fall.
first quarter of 2015 and the other in early Ore grades fall as mines age, so more ore 2016.
The company has a 40% interest in Performance must be processed to maintain production the Alto Maipo run-of-river hydroelectric and haulage distances are longer to access project that will supply 110MW about 55% the minerals and reach the waste dumps, of its current energy needs under a 20-year leading to increased fuel consumption.
The use of sea water by the Group in its new For more information on the Groups energy opportunities, please see page 47 20% projects, Antucoya and Encuentro Oxides, will of the energy used at Los Pelambres increase energy consumption as water needs The Group recognises the risks and isfrom wind power.
to be pumped from the coast to the mine opportunities of climate change and the sites over 1,000 metres above sea level.
importance of measuring, mitigating and reducing its greenhouse gas GHG The Group constantly seeks innovative emissions.
In 2014, Antofagasta Minerals In focus ways to increase the efficiency of electricity emitted 2,099,912 tonnes of CO and the CO 2 2 and fuel use, focusing on identifying and emission intensity was 2.98 tonnes of CO 2 diversifying sources of energy supply and emitted per tonne of copper produced, which RENEWABLE ENERGY increasing the proportion of renewable represents a 3.6% decrease compared to 2013. energy used.
By 2016, nearly 50% of Los Pelambres energy supply will come from renewable energy sources and by the end of 2018, this will be some 80%.
2 Total CO2 emissions per tonne of fine copper produced scopes 1 and 2.
3 4 Tonnes CO2 e Mm water volume sold.
5 Antofagastas Intensity figure against 2013 turnover.
Antofagasta plc | 59 MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 6 MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Mining operations generate significant quantities of waste rock, spent ore, leached minerals and tailings.
As a result, natural habitats, local vegetation and animal species can be affected.
Antofagasta has a strong track record in preventing and managing this impact while striving to add environmental value wherever possible.
SAFETY OF INSTALLATIONS APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL Why it matters MANAGEMENT The installations at the Groups companies, The Groups environmental strategy focuses including tailings dams, are built to withstand The Groups legal permits, social licence on using resources efficiently, controlling extreme weather and earthquakes.
to operate and reputation depend on its impact and, wherever possible, adding The physical and chemical stability of the ability to prevent and manage any negative environmental value.
To do this, the Group Companys installations must comply impact of its operations.
Even when must proactively identify risks and monitor its with the strict requirements established an operational incident has a limited control mechanisms.
The Group measures in their environmental permits, which are environmental impact, it can damage its performance in this area using indicators audited regularly.
The Group has operational community relations and trust between included in its Assessment of Environmental procedures in case of emergencies that the Group and its stakeholders.
These measure require both internal practice drills and drills water, air quality, waste, biodiversity, co-ordinated with the relevant public services greenhouse gas emissions and impact and local organisations.
For each of these, Performance PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY the Group has defined guidelines, which are constantly monitored.
Antofagasta recognises the importance of protecting local ecosystems.
Efforts to foster MANAGING MINING WASTE biodiversity focus on the Choapa Valley In mining, it is necessary to ensure the where Los Pelambres is located due to its Zero physical and chemical stability of mining great natural richness.
In Centinela the focus incidents with environmental impact in 2014 waste and to avoid contamination of both is on ensuring that coastal species are not surface water courses and groundwater.
affected at its port facilities.
Two of the Groups operations use an acid In Conchal, near Los Vilos, the Group heap-leach process to produce copper transformed an unauthorised rubbish dump In focus cathodes and dispose of their mining waste into the Conchal Lagoon wetland, protected in authorised dumps.
by Ramsar the Convention on Wetlands Los Pelambres and Centinela, which produce of International Importance, which is now CLOSURE PLANNING copper concentrate through flotation, store a sanctuary for marine birds and other Antofagasta plans the closure of its their tailings in dams.
The Group also protects one of operations well in advance so they can two tailings dams designed to withstand the few remaining Chilean palm woods, the be decommissioned in a socially and earthquakes and other natural disasters and 746-hectare Santa Ins forest, known for its environmentally acceptable manner.
have in place all the safety features required great biodiversity and located near the Los Chilean legislation requires that mining to prevent contamination of water courses.
Los Pelambres acquired it in 2014, operations have closure plans approved by partly for conservation purposes and partly to Centinela has pioneered a thickened tailings the Chilean Geology and Mining Service provide opportunities for scientific research deposit technology whereby virtually dry Sernageomin, and that the plans are and environmental education.
tailings are deposited in restricted areas.
In 2012, the law on mine closures was modified to include additional requirements for the physical and chemical stability of the infrastructure, tailings dams and the financial provision for the closure process.
As a result, in 2014, all of the Groups operations presented updated closure plans.
60 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
