Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Responsible business Our success depends on our ability to research and develop innovative medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products and make them accessible for more people worldwide in a responsible way.
Our partnership with Save the Children aims to help save the lives of one million children.
One of our programmes is in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where health workers like Head Nurse Jacqueline Mankenda pictured, are directly reaching thousands of children, including those in the hardest to reach communities.
36 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information GSK Annual Report 2014 37 Ivy Lahon Save the Children Photo: Aubrey Wade Save the Children Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Responsible business Our approach How we conduct our business is just as important as financial performance.
Being a responsible business is central Responsible business priorities Tax to our strategy, and how we conduct our The priorities for our responsible business Businesses are increasingly being business is just as important to us as the approach sit within the context of macrochallenged to ensure they contribute financial results we achieve.
We strive economic and social trends that are through the tax system to the societies to put our values at the heart of every impacting wider society and all companies.
in which they operate, and to provide decision we make and to meet or exceed These trends present both opportunities information on their tax management the expectations of society.
and challenges for global healthcare principles and policies.
We understand companies like GSK see page 8.
Our commitment starts at the top, with our responsibility to pay an appropriate our CEO and Corporate Executive Team, We report our progress across four areas: amount of tax.
We fully support efforts and a dedicated Board-level Corporate Health for all, Our behaviour, Our people, to ensure companies are appropriately Responsibility Committee CRC led by and Our planet.
Our responsible business transparent about how their tax our Chairman see page 94 for the 2014 priorities have been identied through our affairs are managed.
understanding of the issues that are most We have a substantial business important to our business success and to Creating value for society and employment presence in many our stakeholders.
For more detail on this Developing innovative products and countries around the globe and analysis see our responsible business maximising access to them delivers direct we pay a significant amount of tax, supplement at gsk.
benefit to patients and consumers.
If we do including corporation and other this successfully, this will deliver profitable In 2012, we developed longer-term business taxes, as well as tax and sustainable business performance.
commitments across the four areas.
In turn this allows us to generate value and These reect global health needs and At the same time we have a returns for our shareholders and to reinvest are aligned with our strategic priorities responsibility to our shareholders in the business.
Over and above this, wider and our values of transparency, respect to be nancially efficient and deliver society benets, since healthy people and for people, integrity, and patient focus.
As part of communities are essential to building We report detailed progress against this approach, we look to align our strong, sustainable societies.
these commitments in our responsible investment strategies to those We also contribute significant value by business supplement, available on countries where we already have making direct and indirect economic gsk.
In 2014 we substantial economic activity and contributions in the countries and assessed 14 of these commitments where government policies promote communities where we operate through as progressing well, six as on track, tax regimes which are attractive to tax see box, our employment of 98,000 two with more work to do and one business investment.
We pay a considerable amount of charitable contributions for the year are tax in the UK because a significant set out on page 40.
Further details about proportion of our global corporate our corporate tax charges for the year functions and R&D and manufacturing are on page 63 and we publish full details activities are located in the UK.
about our position on tax.
This includes corporation tax on profits generated, as well as indirect tax and employment taxes, although the precise amounts uctuate from year to year.
38 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Access to healthcare Ensuring access for all We are determined to drive access to our products to reach more patients and consumers, no matter where they live or their ability to pay.
Our medicines, vaccines and consumer health products are improving quality of life for patients and consumers around the world.
But millions of people are still not getting the vaccines and treatments they need because they cannot afford them, and there are still many diseases that impact the poorest for which treatments do not exist.
To play our part in tackling this global health challenge and to drive access to our products to more people, we are pioneering new business models, collaborating to strengthen healthcare infrastructure and innovating to tackle diseases that disproportionately affect the poorest.
Affordability and availability Improving access to healthcare is central to our business, and we have evolved our approach to increase access to more patients and consumers by tackling affordability and availability barriers.
To maximise patient benets and sustain our business in Least Developed Countries LDCs, we have a lower price higher volume approach and have capped prices of our products at 25% of developed market levels.
Responding to the Ebola outbreak We seek regulatory approvals for our established products in developing Since the Ebola crisis began in March If it protects volunteers as hoped, countries through our catch up 2014, GSK has been working closely it could contribute signicantly to programme to bridge the gap in access with the World Health Organization controlling this outbreak.
Its future compared with developed countries.
WHO, regulators and other partners use in mass vaccination campaigns Our investment in local manufacturing to respond to the outbreak and to will depend on whether WHO, and capability building also increases accelerate development of our regulators and other stakeholders are the availability of locally relevant vaccines investigational Ebola vaccine.
We satisfied that the vaccine candidate and medicines.
are also contributing to the overall provides protection against Ebola humanitarian effort and taking steps without causing significant side effects We supply vaccines to Gavi, the Vaccine to support the small number of and how quickly large quantities of Alliance, at signicantly reduced prices employees we have in the region.
for use in the worlds poorest countries.
We have committed to provide Gavi with In phase I studies, our investigational We are actively exploring with more than 850 million vaccine doses at Ebola vaccine demonstrated an relevant organisations and partners reduced prices to help protect 300 million acceptable safety prole and produced all opportunities to accelerate the children in the developing world by 2024. an immunological response in healthy development of manufacturing at an We have also committed to a 10-year adult volunteers.
It is now being tested in industrial scale so that if the trials are price freeze to Gavi graduating countries.
a large phase III clinical trial sponsored successful, we will be in a position to By 2020, 22 countries with growing by the National Institute of Health NIH signicantly ramp-up production of the economies will graduate from Gavi support.
which began in Liberia in February 2015. vaccine candidate to help combat this This trial is expected to involve up to or future Ebola outbreaks.
30,000 people, one-third of whom will receive GSKs candidate Ebola vaccine.
It will compare the candidate vaccine to a control vaccine to assess whether the immune response seen in phase I trials actually translates into meaningful protection against Ebola.
GSK Annual Report 2014 39 Photo: Aubrey Wade Save the Children Aubrey Wade Save the Children Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Access to healthcare continued In the UK, we have taken a considered We are also investing in new formulations, approach to the pricing of Relvar Ellipta, smaller packs and different distribution Anoro Ellipta and Incruse Ellipta, which models to make products more affordable 1st are priced and in line with, or less than, and available.
Since we introduced other alternatives.
single-dose capsules to help respiratory GSK topped the Access to Medicine Index patients spread the cost for inhalers, Strengthening healthcare systems for the fourth consecutive time.
The Index Ventolin Rotacaps has become the most In the worlds poorest countries, the lack measures the performance of the top 20 widely distributed GSK product in the of trained healthcare workers to diagnose pharmaceutical companies on their efforts Philippines.
diseases and administer treatment is to improve access to medicines and preventing many patients from accessing We have a tiered pricing approach for healthcare in developing countries.
our life-saving medicines and vaccines, prescription medicines and vaccines, Since the last Index in 2012, we have regardless of the cost.
where countries pay different prices based taken further steps to help widen access on their ability to pay, as determined by By reinvesting 20% of our profits in LDCs to our medicines.
These include ling our Gross National Income GNI per person, to train front line healthcare workers, we malaria vaccine candidate for regulatory which will enable broad access to GSK aim to improve access to healthcare for approval: forming a groundbreaking medicines and vaccines globally.
We have invested five-year partnership with Save the In middle income countries like Brazil, 6 million in 2014 based on 2013 profits Children: launching an Africa NCD Mexico, Indonesia and India, we work and a total of more than 21 million since Open Lab: and putting patients at the with governments and other healthcare the reinvestment programme began in centre of our sales and marketing efforts.
providers to provide reimbursement or 2009.
The 25,000 healthcare workers payment assistance for patients who trained by our partners, Amref Health cannot afford medicines such as Relvar Africa, CARE International and Save the Ellipta, Benlysta or Revolade.
Children, in collaboration with country ministries of health, have improved access The overall 2014 total contribution In developed markets, we have pioneered to healthcare for over 6.5 million people.
represents a decline, largely due to fewer novel reimbursement approaches to widen US patients enrolling in GSKs patient access to our newer medicines and have In addition to this, we have committed to assistance programs, which is primarily priced these at or below current treatments.
train an additional 10,000 health workers a result of new coverage options available in Kenya, Ghana and Nigeria by 2017, and For example, in the USA the list price for patients via the Affordable Care Act.
are currently supporting the UN-backed for our diabetes medicine, Tanzeum, is Even with the new coverage options in One Million Community Health Workers lower than medicines in the same class.
the USA, GSK continues to help support Campaign run by the Earth Institute at Diabetes affects nearly 21 million adults patient access to our medicines and also Columbia University with a grant of age 20 and over, and nearly 60% of provides services to help interested and 500,000. patients with type 2 diabetes are on potentially eligible enrollees understand multiple treatment therapies, each with We provide additional support for these alternative coverage options.
We aim to be vulnerable communities through product Partnership with Save the Children mindful of healthcare costs, as we work and financial donations.
In 2014, our Our partnership with Save the Children, to increase access and affordability and contributions totalled 201 million formed in 2013, aims to help save the reect the value our innovative, quality 221 million in 2013.
This included: lives of one million children in the worlds medicines bring to patients.
support for nearly 183,000 people through poorest countries by combining our Patient Assistance Programs in the USA: scientific expertise and global reach with 858 million tablets of albendazole to the charitys on-the-ground knowledge.
prevent lymphatic lariasis and soiltransmitted helminths as part of our Together we established two signature commitment to combat neglected tropical programmes in Democratic Republic of diseases, and 5.5million of products Congo DRC and Kenya that aim to tackle Our giving in 2014 valued at cost to support humanitarian challenges in the supply and demand of 2% aid in 78 countries, distributed through effective healthcare and contribute to a 7% our non-profit partners.
reduction in maternal, newborn and under 25% five deaths.
We are exploring how an antiseptic used in our Corsodyl mouthwash can be reformulated to prevent infected umbilical cords in newborns.
66% m Cash 51 Product and in-kind 133 Time 4 Management 13 Total 201 40 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Investing in Africa To increase local capability and GSK is investing in Africa to increase We are investing 25 million to create the worlds first Africa Non-Communicable capacity to manufacture medicines, access to medicines, build capacity Diseases Open Lab, where GSK we are investing up to 100 million to and deliver sustainable growth.
Our scientists and external researchers will expand our existing facilities in Kenya vision is to make GSK products available work together to improve understanding and Nigeria and build new factories to 80% of the population in sub-Saharan of non-communicable disease variations elsewhere to ensure the sustainable Africa and least developed countries by seen in African patients.
It is hoped this production of medicines in Africa for 2020.
This is not just philanthropy, it is a new way of doing business.
will enable researchers across academia African people.
These facilities will and industry to develop new medicines make locally relevant products, including Over the next five years, we will invest to address the specic needs of African antibiotics and respiratory and HIV 130 million in Africa.
We will invest in up to 25 medicines, create jobs and boost partners, we aim to provide a portfolio academic chairs or other forms of support long-term economic prospects.
of relevant products, support African for students, programmes and research R&D expertise and increase local We will also work with partners to train across a range of healthcare related manufacturing capacity and capability.
10,000 healthcare workers in Kenya, disciplines.
These initiatives are all to Ghana and Nigeria in addition to those promote the expansion of pharmaceutical trained in LDCs through our 20% sciences, public health, engineering and reinvestment programme.
Innovation for diseases impacting We know that by sharing our insights and Now we are applying the same open the developing world collaborating with partners we have the innovation model to target other areas We are committed to innovation for potential to make progress faster.
Our open of need where the traditional commercial diseases that disproportionately affect innovation strategy offers external scientists model is not appropriate.
In 2014, we the worlds poorest, even when there is access to our compound library for TB and announced plans to create the worlds not the same potential for commercial malaria, and to our resources to promote first Africa NCD Open Lab.
We also return on our R&D investment.
research into diseases of the developing continue to collaborate with partners to world.
Since 2010, 50 external researchers accelerate the development of new drugs Our pipeline includes the worlds first have worked alongside GSK scientists at for Alzheimers disease and new antibiotics malaria vaccine candidate, led for our Open Lab in Spain and have built up to combat growing resistance.
regulatory approval in 2014, as well as a portfolio of 42 research projects.
a vaccine candidate for tuberculosis TB.
We are also accelerating the development of an Ebola vaccine at an unprecedented rate see page 39.
We received regulatory approvals in respiratory, oncology, HIV AIDS and diabetes in 2014, which will help address the changing health burden in developing countries.
All of these innovations promise to deliver treatments needed by some of the worlds most vulnerable people.
GSK Annual Report 2014 41 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Behaviour Putting the needs of patients and consumers first We are changing the way we work to further embed our values in everything we do.
We expect all of our employees to act All medicines have potential risks as well transparently, respectfully and with integrity as benets.
Our robust policies and Our values and to put the interests of patients and governance framework help us detect consumers first at all times.
and act on any side effects that may be Patient focus associated with our medicines and we We aim to put these core values at the Integrity put patient safety first in our clinical trials heart of everything we do and every wherever they take place.
Respect for people decision we make: from the way we conduct our research, to our approach to All our trial protocols are reviewed by an Transparency sales and marketing to the way we interact independent ethics committee that has with patients, doctors and policymakers.
the power to reject or stop a trial, and we maintain a global risk register to help our Code of Conduct Firstly, in January 2015 we completed research teams around the world monitor Our Code of Conduct and accompanying the roll-out of changes to the way our quality and safety controls appropriately.
training, seeks to ensure everyone at sales teams are compensated.
Our sales In 2014, we conducted 234 audits of our GSK understands how to put our values professionals around the world no longer trial sites and third parties carrying out trials into practice.
Mandatory training on the have individual sales targets, but instead, on our behalf to ensure high ethical quality Code helps our employees gain the are assessed and rewarded primarily based and safety standards.
confidence to make the right decisions on their technical skills, scientific and report any concerns through our We maintain strict quality and safety knowledge, quality of service they deliver Speak up programme.
standards at all our manufacturing sites.
to HCPs, and broader business Our quality culture puts the patient at the performance.
In the USA, GSK was Our Speak up programme offers people centre of our efforts to deliver right first ranked first among major pharmaceutical within and outside GSK a range of time.
It is also essential that the ingredients companies by HCPs on the value we channels to voice concerns and report and materials that go into our products bring in our 2014 customer satisfaction misconduct without fear of reprisal.
are safe and of high quality.
survey see case study on page 21.
These include telephone and internet channels run by independent external We expect our suppliers to uphold the Secondly, we are changing how we support operators to enable anonymous reporting.
same high standards we set ourselves education for doctors.
Our commitment to In 2014, we standardised how we monitor and we monitor their performance through medical education remains unchanged, but contacts made to our global compliance our compliance processes and quality we will move away from direct sponsorship management system to report potential risk assessments.
of individual HCPs to arms length funding, allegations and ask questions, and we for example via third-party independent Counterfeit medicines, vaccines and other signicantly increased our monitoring medical organisations.
healthcare products pose a significant activities globally.
This has led to an threat to patient and consumer safety as Thirdly, by 2016, we will no longer pay increase from 1,865 contacts made well as to our reputation.
Counterfeiting HCPs to speak to other prescribers about in 2013 to 3,203 contacts in 2014. is a crime and we work closely with our medicines.
Instead we are using other We updated the Code of Conduct in appropriate law enforcement and customs channels, including digital and real-time 2014 to reinforce the critical role our agencies to combat large-scale, often applications, to provide information about values play in protecting our reputation highly organised, counterfeiters.
our medicines and vaccines in the way and commercial success, and we extended HCPs want it, when they want it.
In 2014, we introduced Fingerprint, an it to cover our complementary workforce end-to-end supply chain serialisation The expert medical doctors we have within who will be required to complete training programme that will apply unique serial GSK will also take on a role to talk and in 2015. ngerprints on many of our products.
answer questions about our medicines The unique identiers will be recorded Suppliers are also expected to follow our with their peers.
They will be responsible in a database so the product can then standards and we are increasing our focus for, and measured on, providing the right be scanned and veried against the on responsible procurement with a new information to support the safe and effective database at any point in the supply chain.
initiative that will simplify and standardise use of our medicines.
By the end of 2014, 48 packaging lines at our approach to managing third-party risk Clinical research transparency 14 of our sites had serialisation capability.
This focus on supply chain risk Sharing information on our clinical research is also one of the key areas we need Modernising sales and marketing helps to build trust and supports further to address as part of our ongoing We are modernising the way we sell and research to benefit medical science and commitment to the UN Guiding Principles market our medicines, transforming the patient care.
on Business and Human Rights.
business model the industry has had for Since 2004, we have shared information Rigorous patient and consumer safety many years.
We are changing how we on our trials and results, regardless of Patient safety is our number one priority reward our sales representatives and whether the outcomes might be considered in the development, testing, manufacturing engage with healthcare professionals positive or negative, through an online and use of our products.
HCPs, to meet customer needs and clinical study register.
to ensure patients interests come first.
In 2014, we made good progress against our commitments in three key areas, announced in December 2013.
42 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information This increases the instances where we are exposed to activities and interactions with Addressing misconduct bribery and corruption risk.
Given the complexity of our sector and the As part of our commitment to In some cases retraining is extended challenges of working in global healthcare, transparency, we report annually on how to an employees colleagues to prevent we will continue to face risks.
Operating in we have addressed misconduct within them from making similar mistakes.
emerging markets is especially challenging our business.
In 2014, we standardised Breaches of external codes given the issues many of these countries how we capture the number of contacts GSK was found to be in breach of face with funding and maturity of their made to our global compliance external industry or government respective healthcare systems.
However, management system which employees promotional codes 39 times in 2014 we continue to believe that with robust can use to report potential allegations compliance systems and, by working closely compared with 36 times in 2013.
This has led to an with local governments, our presence in breaches were for our Consumer increase from 1,800 contacts made these markets can help improve access Healthcare products and were primarily in 2013 to 3,200 contacts in 2014. to medicines and broader healthcare.
breaches of country specic regulations In 2014, 3,947 employees were codes regarding local advertising Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABAC disciplined for policy violations 3,128 guidelines.
The remaining breaches were programme is designed to prevent in 2013, the majority of these were for for our prescription products including non-compliance through controls, attendance or payroll violations.
Of the breaches for promotional materials and practical guidance and mandatory training.
total disciplined, 373 375 in 2013 advertising and breaches of local country During the year, all GSK employees and were dismissed or agreed to leave the specic regulations codes.
complementary workers completed basic company voluntarily.
Policy violations level training and over 72,000 in high We investigate every breach of an related to sales and marketing codes risk-roles completed advanced ABAC external code and take steps to prevent accounted for 233 dismissals 161 in training.
Of the total disciplined, 3,131 retraining or other corrective action, Our governance structures and strong employees received a documented such as disciplinary action.
focus on responsible behaviour are warning 2,753 in 2013. designed to prevent ethical breaches.
The primary reason for the increase Types of policy violations But sometimes things can still go wrong.
in the number of disciplinary cases 2014 If that happens, we act promptly and 3% particularly documented warnings decisively.
6% related to Code of Conduct violations 3% In September 2014, GSK China Investment was the increased number of reports 5% Co. Ltd GSKCI was found guilty, from China 652 in 2014, 48 in 2013.
5% 43% according to Chinese law, of bribing The increases in China were related 6% non-government personnel.
This verdict to the investigation by the Chinese 8% followed investigations initiated by Chinas authorities, the strengthening of Ministry of Public Security in June 2013 monitoring systems, and the introduction 10% 11% and included a ne of 301 million.
of a quarterly knowledge test for sales representatives.
Failure to pass the test This has been a deeply disappointing results in the employee receiving a Attendance payroll Marketing and matter for us.
The illegal activities of documented warning.
Employees in the promotional GSKCI are a clear breach of GSKs Code of conduct sales force who receive a documented activities governance and compliance procedures.
Goods warning are disqualified from the sales Training completion manufacturing They are wholly contrary to the values and incentive programme for 12 months.
practices good falsification of standards expected from our employees.
distribution practices documents We have published a statement of apology Employees who remain with the Local work Travel and expenses to the Chinese government and its people company following a policy violation regulation violations Fraud on our website.
receive retraining and increased Other monitoring or support.
Our focus is on learning from this issue.
We have taken steps to comprehensively rectify the issues identied at GSKCI, including changing engagement activities In 2013, GSK became the first company expanded to include data from nine other with healthcare professionals and expanding to publish formal reports that are the basis companies in 2014.
Researchers must our review and monitoring of invoicing and of submissions to regulatory agencies submit their proposals to an independent payments.
We will use robust compliance known as Clinical Study Reports CSRs.
review panel to ensure the data will be systems and work closely with government The register now includes over 5,500 used appropriately and commit to to continue to innovate, improve access to summaries and 180 CSRs.
publishing the results of their work.
medicines and establish GSKCI as a model Following improvements to the design Anti-Bribery and Corruption for reform in Chinas healthcare industry.
and utility of the register, we have seen We are exposed to bribery and We have also sought to apply appropriate an increase in the number of pages viewed corruption risk through our global lessons to our operations elsewhere, but, per visit and the duration of each visit.
In some markets, given the complex global environment in the government structure and the rule We were the first company to provide which we operate, we will continue to of law are less developed, and this researchers with the detailed data that sit has a bearing on our bribery and face risks.
In addition can request access to detailed anonymised to the global nature of our business, patient-level data from over 1,000 of our the healthcare sector is highly trials through an online system, which we competitive and subject to regulation.
GSK Annual Report 2014 43 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our people Respect for people is one of GSKs core values To ensure we have the right people with the right skills, we focus on talent, leadership, performance and engagement.
Talent and leadership Engaging employees in our mission, We are working hard to attract, develop values and strategy gives everyone at % and retain the skilled and talented people GSK a clear sense of how they can help 42 we need at all levels of our organisation.
Our CEO Women in management positions and members of the Corporate Executive For employees in the early stage of their Team CET keep employees informed careers, we offer many opportunities, about our strategy and progress throughout % including apprenticeships, internships the year.
We also encourage employee 50 and graduate schemes.
We are on track feedback to improve their experience.
to achieve our global target to recruit reduction in injury and illness rate In 2014, we conducted interim surveys 450 students a year onto our early over the last 10 years covering around 33,000 employees that talent programmes by 2015. indicated our managers were leading our Acknowledging our global commitment people more effectively.
to increasing our apprentice population, we have decided to include them in our Engagement and formal consultation with Our groundbreaking global Partnership early talent community, alongside our employees and representatives, such as for Prevention P4P programme aims Future Leaders graduates and Esprit unions and works councils, is particularly to create a healthier workforce and post-graduate programme participants.
important during periods of restructuring.
differentiate GSK as an employer.
We continue to work closely with these P4P offers up to 40 preventive healthcare Our leadership development programmes groups during the proposed three-part services such as immunisations, cancer provide employees at all levels with the transaction with Novartis which will lead screenings and preventive examinations skills they need to become effective to considerable change.
Around 12,000 to employees and their families.
We leaders from Management Essentials, Novartis employees will join our business are the only multinational company to offer for those new to management, to the and employee transfers will take place such benets on this scale and we are more advanced Leading Business for in around 80 countries.
A key priority making good progress towards our target our experienced leaders.
Our coaching is to limit the number of redundancies, to implement P4P globally by 2018. programmes helped 4,034 participants offer support where redundancies are strengthen their leadership capabilities Inclusion and diversity unavoidable and assist in cases where in 2014.
See our case study on page 45 As an inclusive employer we value the employees need to nd new employment.
for more information on our approach different perspectives, experiences and to leadership.
Health, safety and resilience working styles of our global workforce.
We take a progressive approach to In addition, our agship PULSE Volunteer We aim to improve gender balance at protecting the health and wellbeing Partnership enables employees to work all levels of our organisation.
In 2014, of our people with a focus on sustaining full time with a non-profit organisation we focused on creating opportunities a strong health and safety culture.
or charity for three or six months.
This for women in management.
The proportion Over the last tenyears, we have more experience adds a new dimension to the of women in management continued to than halved our reportable injury and development of our people and provides increase to 42% see page 45.
In 2014, we reduced this insights and expertise to organisations continued to represent 21% of our CET gure by 4% to 0.26 incidents per working to address major healthcare and 31% of our Board.
GSK ranked joint 100,000 hours worked.
Since 2009, we have sent fifth in the UK Governments 2014 report have achieved our 2015 target a year early.
482 employees from 51 countries to work on womens representation on the boards with 94 non-profits and provided over Our health and safety culture seeks to of FTSE 100 companies.
16 million worth of skilled services to ensure employees are aware of health Our employee-led Womens Leadership our partners.
In 2014, 98 employees and safety risks.
In 2014, we continued Initiative brought together, both virtually volunteered with 39 organisations.
to invest in leadership training to help and at regional hubs, 1,500 people and leaders from 30 countries manage such Performance and engagement over 20 GSK senior leaders at an inaugural risks more effectively.
We are improving the way we manage global conference in 2014 to encourage employees performance.
Our new global Recognising the challenge of balancing action on womens career development.
performance system sets clear objectives, personal and professional responsibilities, Our coaching and sponsorship programme aligns with delivering our strategy and is we run Energy & Resilience programmes supported 118 female managers complete underpinned by the six GSK Expectations globally to help our employees lead individual and group coaching sessions.
that promote individual responsibility healthier lives, at home and at work.
We also encourage senior leaders to by dening what we require of everyone Since 2012, 16% of our global workforce sponsor female managers to support at GSK.
By putting more emphasis on across 45 countries have participated in their career development.
results and the way results are achieved, this initiative.
We plan to increase it strengthens the connection between participation in 2015. individual performance and reward.
44 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Creating a pipeline of strong leaders at all levels of our business We support our leaders in developing The Leading Delivery programme helps The small number of leaders best-practice management capabilities our middle managers those leading demonstrating the business acumen and values-based decision making, managers to translate our business and leadership capabilities to be through a range of leadership strategy into action, drive performance, appointed to our CET or one of its programmes.
These clarify what is build capabilities and enhance trust with direct reports, participate in our expected of our leaders in delivering their team members and colleagues.
Enterprise Leadership programme, our strategy of helping our patients a highly customised two-year global For experienced, high-potential leaders, and customers do more, feel better learning experience.
our Leading Business programme equips and live longer.
them to manage and support diverse, In 2014, we introduced a new Strengthened by the common language cross-cultural and high-performing programme to enable our female leaders created through our GSK Leadership teams, while translating our strategy into to enhance their network, clarify their Expectations, our leadership programmes effective actions for their business units.
career ambitions and build their also ensure we have exceptional and Over an 18-month period, participants confidence to become strong senior diverse leaders at all levels of the business.
undertake an immersive experience in leaders.
We believe this programme Mumbai and London focusing on helps our organisation to make better Our Management Essentials and First balancing their numerous leadership decisions by further reducing risk and Line Leader programmes provide new responsibilities.
managers with a thorough grounding in essential management responsibilities.
Women in management positions % We are also working hard to ensure we The people we employ in Emerging understand the needs of people with Markets, Asia Pacic and Japan represent 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 disabilities when developing employment 44% of our workforce.
In 2014, our SVP VP 25 26 27 28 29 opportunities and have established a Global consumer healthcare business in India Director 37 38 39 40 40 Disability Council to support our aim to and pharmaceutical business in Latin Manager 42 42 43 44 45 become a disability confident organisation.
America made particularly good progress in attracting and developing local talent.
Total 38 39 40 41 42 As a founding member of business disability international, a social enterprise We also increased the proportion of people Employees by gender number involving other global businesses, GSK from emerging markets participating in Male Female Total is helping develop global standards to our development programmes and joining measure businesss disability performance.
the company through our graduate and Board 11 5 16 a MBA programmes.
Management 9,899 7,201 17,100 To ensure our leadership teams represent Total 55,620 42,301 97,921 the diverse markets we serve, we are building a talent pipeline that includes a Management: senior managers as dened in people from a range of cultural and ethnic the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report backgrounds.
Currently, eight nationalities and Directors Report Regulations 2013, are represented on the Corporate which includes persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Executive Team and Board.
company, or a strategically significant part of the company, other than the Board, including directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
GSK Annual Report 2014 45 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our planet Reducing our environmental impacts We have set ambitious goals to reduce carbon, water and waste across our value chain.
Carbon Helping our suppliers reduce their External benchmarking We aim to achieve a carbon neutral carbon emissions is critical to achieving value chain by 2050.
We are reducing our value chain carbon goal and to better operational carbon emissions and understand the impacts here.
In 2014, GSK is the only pharmaceutical company engaging suppliers, patients and we collected carbon, as well as water to have achieved the Carbon Trusts consumers to cut emissions associated and waste, data from over 200 of our standards for cutting carbon emissions with sourcing raw materials and use largest materials suppliers.
Patient or consumer use of our products, In 2014, we reduced our Scope 1 and such as metered dose inhalers, accounts 2 emissions, those within our operations, for 46% of carbon emissions across by 11% to 1.6 million tonnes of CO e. our value chain.
Our inhaler recycling 2 This is a 19% reduction compared with scheme, Complete the Cycle, now running REDUCING WATER YEAR ON YEAR 2010.
Our Scope 3 emissions, such as in six countries, allows us to reduce waste those associated with raw materials, sent to landll and prevent any remaining GSK is one of only two pharmaceutical logistics, business travel and use of our inhaler propellant being released as companies to be included in CDPs FTSE metered dose inhalers that use an HFA greenhouse gas.
Water This is an increase of 17% compared to In 2014, we cut our operational water use 2010.
Tackling our Scope 3 emissions by a further 5%.
This represents a 20% continues to be a challenge as the sales reduction from the 2010 baseline and of our propellant-based inhalers continue means we have met our 2015 target to cut to grow.
operational water use by 20% a year early.
Reducing energy use and the carbon Measuring and reducing our wider water emissions associated with generating impact across the value chain not just Our supply chain, particularly where the energy we purchase, is key to cutting the amount we use is more challenging we are sourcing raw materials, uses 3 our operational carbon impact.
To address but in 2014 we completed an extensive an estimated 1,200 million m of water.
this, we are investing in renewable energy assessment to prioritise our future efforts We have partnered with TERI, an NGO infrastructure and using waste as fuel for in this regard.
in India, to develop a diagnostic water energy.
For example, at our Cork site in impact tool.
In 2014, we used this to 3 We use just under 15 million m of Ireland we have installed a 150-metre wind identify opportunities for 10 of our largest water per year in our operations and turbine that will cut the sites electrical suppliers to reduce their water impacts.
systematically audit our sites to identify carbon footprint by 30% and which has In 2015, we will work with our suppliers opportunities to cut usage.
In 2014, we already saved over 900,000 in energy and TERI to extend this process to cut water use by an average of 10% at costs in 2014. a further 20 suppliers.
four of our higher-use sites.
We have worked with the Carbon Trust to pilot new ways to reduce water impacts in our sites, and piloted this approach in eight sites in 2014. a Tonnes CO e 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2 Scope 1 emissions 1,011,180 1,035,856 1,016,983 1,040,928 877,037 Scope 2 emissions 964,215 881,101 777,669 767,710 726,469 Scope 3 emissions 11,712,125 11,857,189 12,299,391 12,397,550 12,526,801 Intensity ratios 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Scope 1 and 2 emissions sales revenue tonnes COe m 69.6 70.0 67.9 68.2 69.7 2 Scope 1 and 2 FTE tonnes COe FTE 20.5 19.718.018.2 16.4 2 a Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition.
46 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Waste With a goal to halve operational waste by 2020, we are actively eliminating, reusing and recycling waste, as well as generating energy from waste.
In 2014, we produced 165,000 tonnes of waste from our operations, 0.5% less than in 2013 and 7% less than 2010.
We continue to explore ways to cut waste to bring us back on track to achieve our 2020 goal.
Only 6% of our total waste went to landll in 2014, and three more sites achieved zero waste to landll status, bringing the total to 48.
This means 50% of our manufacturing and major research and development sites send zero waste to landll.
We are on track to hit our 2015 waste-to-landll target, but we have more work to do to achieve zero to landll at all our sites by 2020.
While we recognise the need to continue reducing waste, complex regulatory environments can mean it takes several years to make the required improvements to manufacturing processes.
Rather than sending waste to landll, Reducing environmental impacts while improving we focus on reusing waste where possible, access to medicines or recycling it or incinerating it to generate energy.
The proportion of waste that is Antibiotics have the third biggest At our amoxicillin production site, recycled or disposed of with a positive carbon footprint of our products based Quality Road, in Singapore, we are benefit has increased from 71% in 2010 on volume sold.
We have been on a introducing a new process that will to 75% in 2014. journey to change the way we make eliminate chlorinated solvents, cut the them, looking for ways to save energy, amount of waste produced and reduce cut water impact and waste, improve carbon emissions.
We are using yields and reduce costs.
We have unrecoverable solvent waste as fuel achieved a 15% reduction in our to generate electricity and steam at antibiotics carbon footprint per pack Jurong, our other factory in Singapore.
over the last five years, while increasing At our site in Worthing UK, we formulate production volumes by 40%.
and package the antibiotic, Augmentin, In Irvine, Scotland, where fermentation from amoxicillin and clavulanic acid.
takes place to make penicillin and By putting six tablets in each foil blister clavulanic acid, we have introduced strip, instead of four, we have reduced wind turbines and two combined heat foil use by 30% and pack size by 25%, and power plants to reduce carbon enabling us to put more packs on emissions from energy use.
also installed an anaerobic digester that treats fermentation waste to generate biogas used to fuel a 1MW combined heat and power plant that will save the site 1.4 million a year.
Together, these changes mean Irvine is now producing around 40% more product using just 5% more energy and the same amount of water as in 2010, with a 10% reduction in carbon emissions.
