Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Our people their place, which provide a dynamic culture of personal Our people are our most highly valued asset, they are critical to development.
All employees received training on how to use our success and our growth.
We are proud of our people and the new feedback process in order to gain the maximum the mixture of talent and experience that they bring.
Also as a result of the 2013 survey feedback, on their skills and commitment to achieve our objectives.
we carried out a refreshment of the activities and content Our cultural style is open and honest.
We invest in of our off-site residential course concentrating on providing ensuring that all employees understand Rightmoves core people related activities to develop positive working values and goals.
We achieve this through a combination of relationships, which can be carried forward from the course a rigorous selection process, including technical skills testing, into a work environment.
an off-site residential course to ensure all Rightmovers The careers section of our Corporate website continues to understand our core values, ongoing coaching and mentoring, provide a successful direct approach to recruiting great people and cross-functional team building events involving all to Rightmove.
We have received positive feedback that the employees.
Given the specialised technical nature of the work site provides a useful insight into our business for those we do and the services we provide, we also support ongoing looking to join us.
external professional development where appropriate.
We offer all employees a range of additional benefits, which We encourage employee involvement and place emphasis continue to help us both attract and retain staff.
Rightmovers on keeping employees informed of the Groups activities via are made aware of these benefits through our induction bi-monthly staff forums and business performance updates process and intranet.
with senior management and quarterly sales conferences.
In 2014 we complied with new pension auto enrolment In 2014 we held a Company day, which allowed the whole regulations, certifying the Rightmove Group stakeholder Company to get together and enjoy a day of business pension plan and auto enrolling those employees not already updates, team building and inspirational speakers.
We communicated auto enrolment During 2014, our employee recognition scheme, which is by holding employee seminars and offering the opportunity based around the Rightmove behaviours which reflect our for one to one briefings with external benefits advisers.
unique blend of values and ways of working and which is an We have been delighted to have had very low opt out rates opportunity to nominate colleagues who have demonstrated and currently 91% of employees are now members of the these behaviours in action, continued to prove popular with up pension plan.
to eight awards presented every two months at our bi-monthly We also offer private healthcare complimented by a cash staff forums.
In November 2014, the Companys sixth As a result of last years Have your Say people survey Sharesave contract matured allowing employees to benefit feedback, our employee appraisal process was reviewed and from the success of the Group over the last three years.
60% updated with new continual feedback sessions introduced in of our employees currently participate in the Sharesave Plan.
Rightmove plc annual report 2014 19 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued In November 2014, we introduced the Rightmove Share We recognise that a diverse workforce will provide a wide Incentive Plan with an award of 100 free shares to all array of perspectives that promote innovation and business qualifying employees in January 2015, as a thankyou for all success and drawing on what is unique about individuals the hard work and dedication shown over the last few years adds value to the way we do business and helps us anticipate of the Rightmove journey.
and provide what our customers want from us.
We offer flexible working arrangements, supporting part Our gender diversity throughout the Group remains time working and reduced hours to allow our employees to strong especially at the Director level for the year ended balance their work and family commitments.
31 December 2014, with one out of three executive directors As its important to us to know what our employees think being female.
Our female representation on the Board and having received such valuable feedback last year, we ran increased during the year to 30%, with the appointment of our annual Have your Say people survey, with 94% of a third female Board member as a non-executive director respondents saying Rightmove is a great place to work and in July 2014, although this number will reduce to 25% as 96% of respondents committed to making a real contribution various Board changes take place in 2015 as detailed in to the success of Rightmove.
the Chairmans Statement on page 5.
In 2014 we celebrated 18 people being at Rightmove for Having made substantial progress with gender diversity at 10 years or more and in 2015, 20 more people will reach 10 Board level, the Board continues to focus on the next level of years service, figures which back up our impressive people senior management in order to develop potential within this survey results.
team to step up to Board level at the appropriate time and to identify and develop potential within the wider organisation Equality and diversity with a view to strengthening the female representation within Rightmove has a strong commitment to equality of the senior management team.
In 2014, 28% 2013:14% of opportunity in all our employment policies, practices and our senior management team were female.
We take a proactive approach throughout our A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who recruitment and selection process to ensure that we attract, were directors of Rightmove, senior managers and other hire and retain a diverse and talented workforce and this is employees as at 31 December 2014, is set out below: kept under close and regular scrutiny.
No existing or potential employee will receive less favourable treatment due to their Human rights race, creed, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, age, religion or Whilst Rightmove does not have a specific human rights similar belief, connections with a national minority, sexual policy, it does have policies such as Equal Opportunities and orientation, gender, gender reassignment, marital status, Anti-bribery policy that adhere to internationally proclaimed member or membership of a trade union, disability, or any human rights principles.
other classification as prescribed by law.
Directors Senior management All Rightmove employees 5 3 182 206 13 7 Male Female Male Female Male Female 20 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Charitable activity environmental damage that goes with it.
Rightmove takes We continue to encourage all our employees to devote time care to design the layout of property particulars to reduce the and fundraising efforts to charitable causes of particular total number of pages that need to be printed out in those importance to them as individuals.
During 2014 many of cases where a home hunter does want a physical copy.
our staff have been active in raising money or supporting Enhanced information on properties also reduces the fundraising activities across a wide range of charities for amount of time home hunters waste in visiting properties which Rightmove matches the donations raised.
that rapidly turn out to be inappropriate.
As a high proportion Our employees are also able to donate directly from of viewings involve a car journey, any reduction in wasted their monthly salary to any charity or recognised good viewings has an environmental benefit.
Rightmove has cause registered within the UK through the Charities worked hard to increase the number and size of photographs Trust.
This provides a tax efficient means of giving.
of each property, improved the size and added functionality In 2014, in conjunction with Agents Giving, we launched a to property floor plans and has introduced more charitable sponsorship fund where we contribute to the costs comprehensive map searches and aerial photographs of setting up a charitable activity carried out by our which help home hunters to identify the specific location customers, for example paying for the kit to be used at of a property.
Rightmove has added information on which a charity football match.
This allows for more of the money schools are closest to the properties listed and the raised by our customers to go directly to the charity they are Broadband speed for the area, all of which combined, fundraising for.
We have put aside a fund of 100,000 to provides high quality information about properties, to reduce support customer initiatives via Agents Giving of which the carbon footprint generated by prospective buyers 10,000 was contributed in 2014.
To date the related fund making wasted journeys.
raising activities by our customers will raise over 100,000 The rightmove.
co. uk website includes functionality for our for UK charities.
customers to display Energy Performance Certificates which allow prospective buyers to evaluate the energy efficiency Environment of a property they are considering buying and to identify Rightmove actively considers its environmental impact and opportunities to improve the energy efficiency once they we are conscious of playing our part in tackling climate have purchased the property.
Traditional ways of finding a home tend to involve As an internet-based Group with most staff employed large amounts of paper and printing, whether in the form of in two office locations, we believe our own environmental newspaper advertising, property particulars mailed to footprint is small.
We encourage our staff to take steps to applicants through the post or leaflet drops by agents.
For instance, Rightmove reduces the need for print media and the we continue to operate recycling schemes which were Rightmove plc annual report 2014 21 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued established in consultation with local authorities and recycling Group but that occur at sources owned or controlled by partners.
All waste bins were removed from the desks in our other entities.
London and Milton Keynes offices which encourages and increases the amount of recycling we do.
Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions controlled by the As an operator of an online property portal, the main Group arising from Company cars, which whilst leased, we environmental impact is the power usage of our data centres.
are responsible for the emissions and therefore we report Our procurement policy is to purchase hardware with the these under Scope 1. best computational performance which uses the least electrical power.
Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions attributable to the We encourage our employees to use alternatives to car Group due to its consumption of purchased electricity.
travel, by promoting the use of public transport in particular when travelling between our two office locations and by Scope 3 emissions: Other indirect emissions associated encouraging participation in our Cycle to Work scheme.
with activities that support or supply the Groups operations, As an online business, our culture emphasises a paperless we include emissions arising from our third party run environment.
We also recognise that our responsibilities do data centres.
not stop with how we operate internally: we encourage all our customers, business partners and suppliers not to The Group is required to report Scope 1 and 2 emissions for unnecessarily print out emails sent by us in the signature of its reporting year to 31 December 2014.
Scope 3 is not yet all our emails.
We also continue to focus on streamlining mandatory, however the Group has again chosen to report processes and replacing paper-based services with online Scope 3 emissions as it relates to electricity used in data services and communications, wherever possible.
Steps centres, in which the Group rents space to house and introduced in recent years include e-communications to operate various servers, which host our website platforms.
shareholders and online customer membership forms and product documentation.
Rightmove emissions by Scope: 1 1 Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 Scope Source 2014 2013 Greenhouse gas reporting Since 1 October 2013, the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Scope 1 Company cars 510 461 Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 has required Scope 2 Electricity 317 330 all UK quoted companies to report on their greenhouse gas Scope 3 Outsourced data centres 243 202 GHG emissions, which are classified as either direct or indirect and which are divided further into Scope 1, Scope 2 Total 1,070 993 and Scope 3 emissions.
1 UK emissions factors have been used for all data.
All emission factors have Direct GHG emissions are emissions from sources that are been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually by Defra.
uk  or controlled by Rightmove.
Indirect GHG emissions  are emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the 22 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Emissions have also been calculated using an intensity We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that metric, which will enable the Group to monitor how well we are not included in the above information.
are controlling emissions on an annual basis, independent of fluctuations in the levels of their activity.
As Rightmove is a Health and safety people business, the most suitable metric is Emissions per The Group considers the effective management of health and Employee, based on the average number of employees safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
The Groups emissions per employee are 2014, we continued our fire safety, first aid and work place shown in the table below.
The Groups ongoing policy on health and safety is to provide adequate control of the health and safety Emissions per Employee risks arising from work activities, through further consultation Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e with, and training of, employees, the provision and 2 2 Per Employee Per Employee maintenance of plant and equipment, safe handling and use 2 2 Scope Source 2014 2013 of all substances and the prevention of accidents and causes Scope 1 Company cars 1.3 1.3 of ill health.
Scope 2 Electricity 0.8 0.9 Scope 3 Outsourced data centres 0.6 0.6 Total 2.7 2.8 2 Based on 388 2013: 349 employees taken as the average number of employees in the Group throughout the year.
Emissions per employee remain broadly the same year on year.
We will continue to monitor and look for ways to improve energy efficiency.
As we meet the qualification criteria for the Governments Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS we will be required to carry out a mandatory energy assessment during 2015 and this will help us to identify any areas of potential improvement.
Methodology We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We have used the GHGs Protocols Operational Control consolidation method.
