GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2014 Jack Thompson Chairman, Sustainability Committee At each meeting, the Committee reviews a detailed quarterly report covering the Groups performance across a range of sustainability areas including: safety: occupational health: political and regulatory risk: and environment and social performance.
In addition to these standing agenda items, the following matters were discussed during 2014: February business unit sustainability report: Kumba Iron Ore COMPOSITION key HR risks, derived from the overall sustainability Jack Thompson Chairman risk report Mark Cutifani safety update focused on increased use of leading Tony ONeill indicators and on audits and reviews to measure the Ray ORourke effectiveness of controls.
Sir John Parker Mphu Ramatlapeng April Jim Rutherford regulatory update summary of evolving issues and regulatory developments an update on sustainability activities within the ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES supply chain The Committee changed its name to the Sustainability government and social affairs update focused on Committee from the Safety & Sustainable Development licensing permitting and on social performance and Committee during the year and adopted new terms of socio-economic development reference to reflect its focus on the whole range of sustainability issues facing the Group.
presentation from the President of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
The Committees purpose is to oversee, on behalf of the Board, material management policies, processes and July strategies designed to manage safety, health, environment, detailed update on occupational health and hygiene socio-political and people risks.
It aims to achieve business unit sustainability report: Base Metals compliance with sustainable development responsibilities and Minerals and commitments and strive for an industry leadership position on sustainability.
industry benchmarking: benchmarking the Groups performance against industry peers across a range The new terms of reference are available to view online.
ofsustainability metrics For more information, visit www.
com aboutus ourapproach presentation by the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership.
October business unit sustainability report: Coal integrated reporting: Professor Mervyn King gave a presentation on the work of the International Integrated Reporting Council.
76 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014
