40 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Our people Shaping the organisation that is connecting the world ARMs people are our strength for designing the next generation ARMs people strategy: of technology, delivering it to our customers, and for growing Enabling the Extraordinary and maintaining the ARM partnership.
Our business relies on the intelligence, skills and abilities of these highly talented individuals and We strive to enable the extraordinary through a comprehensive people strategy teams whose creativity and ideas keep ARM the worlds leading that includes: designer of semiconductor IP.
As a result, ARM requires a highperformance, high-engagement organisation where everyone can Capability Securing our leading position challenge and encourage each other to reach their full potential.
for the future by growing the capabilities of our people The organisation works to Enable the Extraordinary and ensure that ARM provides a world-class work experience, attracts the best Culture Delivering a working experience people and facilitates their effective engagement with each other.
Jenny Duvalier that gives our people a reason to EVP People By focusing on the three components of capability, culture and choose to invest their time at ARM, every day connection, we help ARM become an increasingly successful business.
Connection Inspiring and enabling our people to connect with one another, and create innovative technologies Key Gain share in long-term growth markets Increase value per smart device Generate additional revenues from new technology Investing in long-term growth Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 41 Capability Culture Connection Strengthening the organisation, Giving our people the best Enabling colleagues to engage with teams and individuals working experience each other, and with ARM Hiring the best people Engagement Events ARMs headcount has doubled in the last five years.
This growth ARMs success is dependent on a highly engaged and productive ARMs business requires frequent collaboration with continued in 2014 as net total headcount grew by 461, or 16%.
ARM regularly conducts an engagement survey and technologists across a wide range of disciplines, which we We look to hire the best and brightest individuals who have action planning process that provides an opportunity for the facilitate through regular international events.
The Global the capacity to innovate, invent and create new products and business to respond to feedback about the working experiences Engineering Conference is attended by one in five of ARMs designs that will shape our future.
In 2014, 82% of the organisation completed the engineers and provides an opportunity to knowledge-share, survey: of those, 92% stated they are proud to work at ARM.
problem-solve and network with colleagues.
The Global We invest in our employees by hiring a mix of graduates By comparing our results with similar organisations globally, we Graduate Conference taught 170 graduates the skills needed and seasoned industry experts, developing them and found that ARM outperformed the average for other hightomake a smooth transition from academia to business.
providing a supportive culture to maximise their capability technology companies and scored similarly to market-leading and potential.
A significant graduate intake 169 in 2014 is companies from a range of sectors.
ARMs success relies on strong external relationships.
a fundamental component of ARMs recruitment practices Every August, about 600 customers attend the ARM Partner as it is an investment in the Groups future and enables For 2015 we will go beyond traditional measures by providing Meeting to improve collaboration and their responsiveness to internal succession.
feedback on whether our work environment supports changing market conditions.
In October, 4,000 developers from productivity, and whether it can maintain it for the long-term.
across our ecosystem assembled for the 10th ARM TechCon ARM also engages with young people before they leave A multi-faceted approach will allow us to sustain our position event.
From industry-leading companies to start ups, TechCon education by participating in STEM science, technology, asahigh-performance, high-engagement organisation.
provides a learning environment for developers and engineers engineering and mathematics initiatives globally and offering who are creating products around ARMs technology.
opportunities for shorter-term work experience.
This robust ARM Values pipeline of talented individuals is vital for our continued growth.
TeamARM The current set of ARM Values articulate the behaviours which we seek to demonstrate in delivering our work: the Values form The ARM corporate responsibility CR programme is Developing the best people an integral part of our performance management process.
focused on four areas: education, health, the environment and local communities.
To sustain our position at the vanguard of the industry, nding and attracting the best people is not enough: we must also ARM has grown rapidly over the years: we have more people, provide a ow of attractive and rewarding opportunities for in more countries and across more technology areas.
In 2015, TeamARM is the employee engagement element of ARMs CR their development and progression.
We invest signicantly through collaboration and consultation with colleagues approach.
Its objective is to encourage employees across our in helping people develop their potential through activities across ARM, we will re-articulate our Values as a set of offices globally to raise money and give their time to benefit such as coaching, mentoring and on-the-job learning, as well core beliefs about ourselves.
ARMs identity is part of our local communities and wider society.
This helps our people build as structured programmes covering technical, functional organisations unique essence, supporting our strategic intent, rapport with each other and develop an emotional connection and leadership skills.
This is supported by e-learning and our our propositions to customers and colleagues, and providing to the business.
Introduced during 2014, TeamARM entitles internal TV channel, ARM TV, which hosts regular educational competitive advantage.
everyone in the business to aminimum of one volunteering content and news about the business with nearly 300 videos day per year, and we aim to reach 20% participation in the uploaded during the year.
In 2014, about 10,000 training days programme in 2015.
60% 40% internal external were delivered to maintain a More about Team ARM in our CR Report culture of constant growth and ensure our world-class people www.
