PEOPLE: CRITICAL CORE SKILLS FOCUS: Images IMPROVING PUBLIC ROAD SAFETY To lead an effective, co-ordinated campaign to improve Safe Roads and road safety, we partnered with local police, NGOs, Streets team nurse Driving is a high risk activity in many of the countries in Ludmila Fonseca left government and other key stakeholders.
Large numbers of vehicles enter and and nurse assistant period, Anglo American focused on improving road Marliza Santos in the leave our sites every day and, as a result, the volume of infrastructure and raising awareness of safe driving medical clinic at Ouvidor.
traffic in these areas often increases.
To mitigate our practices through road safety lectures, meetings and The road safety own impact and support community needs, we have partnership involving our workshops.
Our efforts culminated in an intensive road implemented a Group-wide initiative to improve the Niobium and Phosphates safety week involving employees across the business units.
businesses, the local public road transportation of employees and contractors, police, municipal with the aim of making each journey as safe as possible.
The project, together with other initiatives implemented government, NGOs and other stakeholders has locally, contributed to enhanced road safety in the area, At our Niobium and Phosphates businesses in Gois state, already had a dramatic with a 70% reduction in the number of lives lost over 1 impact in improving road Brazil, a SEAT assessment highlighted road safety to be a the campaign period.
Also in 2014, we implemented an safety in and around the major concern for communities in the region, particularly city of Catalo.
internal road safety campaign and launched a second the highway BR050 that links our operations with the city external campaign, to broaden the scope of work along of Catalo.
Between 2007 and 2012, 122 people lost their highway BR050 and widen the area of influence.
The lives and nearly 750 people suffered significant or minor 1 Anglo Americans principles developed in this project are being transferred injuries in accidents on this stretch of road.
Socio-Economic to operations in other high risk environments.
36 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 S Str tra at te eg gi ic c r re ep po or rt t IMPLEMENTING SAFER ROADS Location REDUCTION IN LIVES LOST Catalo is a city in the south of the state OVER LENGTH OF CAMPAIGN of Gois, Brazil, close to the border with Minas Gerais, and is the centre of our Niobium and Phosphates business.
70% Niobium and Phosphates Our Niobium business unit owns two NUMBER OF FAMILIES niobium mines, while Phosphates ESTIMATED TO HAVE BEEN comprises a mine and two chemical REACHED VIA CHILDRENS processing facilities.
ROAD SAFETY WORKSHOPS Niobiums main application is as an alloying agent in high strength steel 4,500 alloys: phosphates are a principal ingredient of fertilisers.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 37 PEOPLE: CRITICAL CORE SKILLS WORKING TOGETHER A diverse workforce Our people are as vital to our success as our By year end, 24% of managers were women 2013: 23%, with 16% of our overall workforce being mining assets they are the business.
Across our businesses, targets have people who are inspired to deliver sustainable been set to further increase female representation.
value that makes a real difference.
In our South African operations we continued to promote transformation.
By year end, 60% of our management comprised historically disadvantaged South Africans Guided by our values safety, care and respect, integrity, HDSAs 2013: 64%.
accountability, collaboration and innovation our people Fostering sound industrial relations apply their skills, knowledge and expertise to ensure we Approximately 76% of our permanent workforce is operate successfully and responsibly.
It is our people represented by work councils, trade unions or other similar who develop trusting and respectful relationships with bodies and covered by collective bargaining agreements.
communities, governments, suppliers, partners and peers to ensure that we deliver on our promises.
In South Africa, the labour relations climate remains a particular challenge and concern.
Labour instability In return, we reward and recognise our people, supporting has been exacerbated by inter-union conflict, and is them in their careers and providing opportunities to help underpinned by ongoing systemic societal challenges them develop and grow.
that are deeply rooted in the countrys history and in the legacy of the migrant labour system.
The five-month strike THE RIGHT PEOPLE IN THE RIGHT JOBS at Platinum by the majority union AMCU highlighted the adversarial nature of the situation.
The strike was eventually In 2013, Anglo American initiated a process of concluded through mutual dialogue and collaboration, with restructuring the organisation, with the aim of ensuring a three-year agreement signed on 24 June.
The process that we have the right people in the right roles to deliver nonetheless exacted a significant toll and reflected the need effectively and efficiently on our strategic objectives.
for us to improve relations with our employees and their The roll out of our new Organisation Model is creating representative bodies.
a leaner organisation, with greater clarity on roles and accountabilities, and improved lines of communication A number of long term interventions are being between levels of the organisation, while also removing implemented, aimed at developing a more democratic unnecessary work and duplication.
and transparent industrial relations climate, where employees are recognised and respected as equals, based The restructuring of the Group Functions and business unit on a culture of trust and respect.
Our approach focuses corporate centres was completed in 2014.
The Organisation on building relationships with union leadership and jointly Model implementation programme is under way at Kumba driving visible felt leadership programmes, implementing and will progress during 2015 to other operational areas of a proactive employee relations programme that engages the business that support our most important value employees directly, and rolling out a values and culture creating assets.
Talent management and skills development Protecting labour rights We seek to offer safe, worthwhile and stimulating work, As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, we provide opportunities for personal development, pay are committed to the labour rights principles provided in competitively, recognise and reward excellence, encourage the International Labour Organization core conventions, diversity and protect employee rights.
Our approach including the right to freedom of association and collective is underpinned by our human resources standards, bargaining, the eradication of child and forced labour and management systems and processes.
We do not tolerate any form of labour training is a key attraction and retention tool.
During the year rights abuse and full observance of these issues is also we supported 3,602 graduates, bursars, apprentices and required of our suppliers in tenders.
Ensuring a safe working environment Formal learning is delivered at both business unit and Effectively managing safety and health in the workplace Group level, with external training expenditure across is a direct investment in our business and our employees.
Anglo American amounting to $106 million, 2.3% of total Our main priority is to prevent loss of life and serious injuries employee costs in 2014 2013: $104 million, 2.0% of total or disability by creating safe and healthy work environments.
A detailed review of our safety and health performance is Over the year, the number of permanent employee provided in our Sustainable Development Report, available resignations as a percentage of total permanent employees online at www.
Our safety strategy focuses on improving our ability to We continue to provide basic literacy and numeracy to anticipate and prevent harm to our people, and reduce our employees, contractors and community members, safety related stoppages at operations.
Our principal through adult basic education and training and transferable safety risks relate to transportation, moving machinery, skills programmes.
fall of ground, working at heights and isolation lock-out.
Our risk based approach is outlined in Anglo Americans 38 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Total number of fatal injuries and fatal injury Lost time injuries, medical treatment cases and frequency rate 20102014 total recordable case frequency rate 2010-2014 TRCFR Fatalities FIFR 30 0.016 4,000 2.5 0.014 3,500 25 2 0.012 3,000 20 0.010 2,500 1.5 15 0.008 2,000 1 0.006 1,500 10 0.004 1,000 0.5 5 500 0.002 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FIFR Total recordable case frequency rate TRCFR Fatalities Medical treatment cases Lost-time injuries Safety Way a comprehensive framework of roles and During 2014, 48 regulatory stoppages and 17 responsibilities supported by a set of safety principles non-compliance notices were issued across the Group and mandatory safety standards.
This underpins the relating to safety, with an additional number of voluntary delivery of our safety strategy, which is founded on three stoppages as a result of conditions that were deemed key principles: a mindset of zero harm: the elimination of potentially unsafe.
repeat incidents: and the consistent application of simple, Promoting health and well-being non-negotiable standards.
Over the past year, we have Our occupational health strategy is governed through a focused on embedding and reinforcing five specific series of standards, guidelines and assurance processes elements of our safety programme: leadership, front-line aimed at preventing harm to the workforce.
Our principal supervision, effective planning, incident management, and health risks relate to noise, inhalable hazards specifically, risk management.
particulate matter dust, musculoskeletal disorders, Anglo American operates in some of the highest risk alcohol and substance abuse, and fatigue.
Our health and regions for road safety, in particular, South Africa, Brazil well-being programmes include the provision of care and and Botswana.
In 2014, we launched a Group-wide initiative treatment for HIV AIDS and TB, as well as early diagnosis to improve public road transportation of employees and and preventative care for any other conditions that may contractors.
Focus areas include standardising contracts lead to ill health in the long term.
Another strategic focus for transportation of employees and contractors, and is strengthening healthcare systems in underserviced addressing human behaviour aspects.
rural areas that are home to many of our employees in SouthAfrica, and building partnerships to improve access We regret to report that in 2014, four employees and two to quality healthcare.
contractors lost their lives in work related activities at operations managed by Anglo American.
Even taking into During the year we made good progress in managing account the suspension of activity at our platinum mines health risks and delivering on our health strategy, reflected during the protracted period of industrial unrest, this still in an improved performance across most of our parameters.
represented a substantial reduction on 2013 when 15 Anglo American has not recorded any cases of silicosis colleagues died on company business.
Nevertheless, any since 2011, which is a positive indication of effective loss of life remains unacceptable and we are committed to management of exposure to respirable crystalline silica achieving and maintaining zero fatalities and zero harm.
We have made steady progress in managing safety and our key lagging safety performance indicators suggest that WORKING WITH STAKEHOLDERS we are starting to achieve the desired step change in our Our ability to realise minings full benefit to society performance.
The reporting, investigation, analysis and requires strong relationships with stakeholders principally improved sharing of high potential incidents through the employees and the communities around our operations, learning from incidents process ensure improvement of but also governments, shareholders, joint venture and civil controls on sites in order to prevent repeats.
We believe society partners and suppliers.
To create shared value for that, by mining category and geographical area, we are all our stakeholders we must understand their needs, performing well in the sector, and we aspire to become concerns and aspirations, as well as the sustainability risks industry leaders.
affecting our business, and consider them as part of our decision making processes as we develop new mines and continue to improve our existing operations.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 39 PEOPLE: CRITICAL CORE SKILLS While specific interests and concerns typically vary Observing human rights by stakeholder group and region, industrial unrest in Incorporating respect for human rights into regular South Africa remains a particular priority.
To address this, business practice is both a moral and business imperative.
we continue to invest in enhancing our relationship with Our approach is aligned with the Protect, Respect and the South African government, and with communities Remedy framework set out in the UN Guiding Principles around our Rustenburg and Limpopo mines.
We are also on Business and Human Rights.
In 2014, we developed engaging more closely with investors, under the leadership a stand-alone human rights policy available online at of chief executive Mark Cutifani, on the progressive www.
com and established the business turnaround.
Anglo American human rights framework to address our principal human rights risks.
Human rights commitments Finding solutions to increasingly complex societal have been integrated into the Social Way, and will be further challenges requires collaboration between business, integrated into SEAT and other relevant policies, procedures, government, civil society, labour, and research bodies.
management systems and tools throughout the business.
We place a strong emphasis, therefore, on developing partnerships with a broad range of stakeholders.
Complaints and grievances Our mandatory Group-wide social incident reporting mechanism, which includes complaints and grievances, Social investment output indicators is designed to ensure openness, accountability and respectfulness in our handling of any stakeholder Total number of community development 3,047 grievances.
The facility is a confidential and secure means projects delivering benefits to communities for our local communities and other external stakeholders in 2014 to raise concerns.
All submissions are reviewed and Total number of businesses supported 58,257 responses provided and, where necessary, mitigating actions are implemented.
Jobs created maintained through enterprise 96,873 development initiatives In addition, at Group level, an anonymous tip-off procedure called Speak Up allows any of our stakeholders to Beneficiaries of education projects 127,369 confidentially report concerns and incidents relating to the Beneficiaries of sports, arts, culture and 263,062 integrity of our conduct.
Disciplinary proceedings, including heritage projects termination, are instituted where employees are found to have behaved contrary to our principles.
Beneficiaries of community development 691,502 projects Responsible supply chain management Our supplier sustainable development assurance Beneficiaries of disaster and emergency 335,936 programme addresses adherence to local legislative relief projects requirements and best practices in areas including safety, Beneficiaries with improved livelihood 121,005 the environment, corruption, human rights and HIV management.
A risk based approach is followed to identify suppliers to be audited, with a focus on small and medium Managing our social performance enterprises, and we conduct follow-up audits to assess Anglo Americans social performance strategy focuses progress against improvement plans.
During 2014, many on observing human rights, proactive engagement with of our largest contractors in South Africa received SEAT our stakeholders and leveraging our business to support training, which includes our stance on responsible sourcing.
Our approach In addition, business units have delivered presentations to is implemented through a comprehensive set of smaller suppliers we have identified as being high risk.
social performance requirements that are detailed in Incidents of non-compliance with contractual conditions Anglo Americans Social Way.
In 2014, we revised the typically involve minor issues that are easily addressed.
requirements of the Social Way, in line with the latest best practices and standards and emerging stakeholder Community development expectations.
In-depth site audits of compliance with the Our socio-economic development strategy guides updated Social Way will be undertaken on a three-year our approach to building resilience within communities rotation basis from 2015, with desk based assessments to prosper beyond mine closure through a range of of all sites conducted annually.
To support local markets, we focus on promoting local procurement, enterprise Within our host communities, our industry leading development and workforce development.
These Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT, now in its programmes create a strong platform for job creation third version, is our primary means to improve operations within and outside the mining value chains.
To improve the understanding of their socio-economic impacts both delivery of public services, we are concentrating on working positive and negative, enhance stakeholder dialogue and with local governments to strengthen their capacity to the management of social issues, build our ability to support deliver on their core public service obligations, and on local socio-economic development, and foster greater sustainable community health and education initiatives.
This new approach to socio-economic development delivery is being rolled out across the Group, with key sites being prioritised for early implementation.
40 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Local procurement Global expenditure by type Our local procurement initiatives add value to the business $000 % and provide the anchor for boosting economic growth in Community 66,084 49 communities around our operations.
They are designed to development optimise opportunities to integrate local businesses into Education and training 27,409 20 our global supply chain and advise them on how to compete Other 13,249 10 successfully for new business.
In promoting inclusive Health and welfare 10,273 7 procurement practices, we do not compromise on quality, Institutional 6,133 4 delivery, service, safety, health and environmental capacity development performance, or on any technical requirements.
Sports, arts, culture 4,891 4 In 2014, expenditure with suppliers based in the and heritage communities close to our operations was $1.7 billion Environment 2,352 2 2013: $1.6 billion.
This represented 14% of total Employee 2,184 2 addressable supplier expenditure 2013: 12%, against matched giving a Group target of 13%.
Water and sanitation 1,721 1 Disaster and 1,477 1 In South Africa, our operations contribute to the countrys emergency relief drive to promote black economic empowerment.
In Total 135,773 100 2014, Anglo American managed businesses spent ZAR 39.3 billion 2013: ZAR 32.4 billion with historically disadvantaged SouthAfrican businesses excluding goods and services procured from the public sector and Global expenditure by country public enterprises.
$000 % South Africa 73,143 54 Enterprise development Our enterprise development programmes are designed Peru 18,255 13 to foster the potential of local entrepreneurs to build Chile 17,906 13 local capacity and ensure that the local economy is able Brazil 9,906 7 to provide opportunities, even after mine closure.
The Canada 9,376 7 schemes integrate with our supply chain more than Namibia 3,419 3 $18 billion globally and develop long term platforms 1 Rest of World 1,911 for partnerships with governments, NGOs and private United Kingdom 938 1 sector companies.
Botswana 919 1 Our well established schemes, Zimele in South Africa and 100 Total 135,773 Emerge in Chile, have supported more than 95,000 jobs over the past seven years.
Based on our experience with these schemes, we developed a best practice model, which was used to implement schemes in Botswana and Brazil in Infrastructure development 2013, and in Peru in 2014.
These three programmes have We operate in areas that are often underdeveloped and supported more than 1,500 jobs during 2014 and aim to remote, where we can create synergies with infrastructure support an additional 3,000 jobs by the end of 2015 and associated with our mines such as roads, health facilities close to 10,000 by the end of 2016. and water for the benefit of local communities.
A particular focus is investing in housing development in South Africa, Building local capacity in areas where services are inadequate or do not exist.
Our capacity development activities focus on Across the Groups businesses in the country, we invested strengthening the skills, competencies and abilities of $109 million on housing projects in 2014. employees, community members and key local institutions to promote robust, self-sufficient local economies long Corporate social investment after our mines have closed.
As we can only offer a limited To maximise development benefits, we prioritise the number of jobs, diversifying our skills development implementation of corporate social investment CSI initiatives to promote broader employment opportunities programmes that are linked to our core functions and enables us to play a more productive role in meeting support activities where we have limited opportunities 1 Included within the community expectations.
Our activities included spending to contribute through our value chains and expertise.
CSI expenditure $6.1 million towards institutional capacity development figure for 2014 AngloAmericans CSI expenditure in local communities in 2014 2013: $3.1 million, often partnering with local is expenditure 1 totalled $135.8 million 2013: $127.5 million.
This figure relating to Zimele municipalities on projects.
In South Africa in 2014, we represents 3.0% of underlying EBIT, excluding associates $10.1 million and launched a major local government capacity building and joint ventures.
social programmes programme in 11 municipalities, in partnership with the delivered as part of Development Bank of Southern Africa, with an investment Iron Ore Brazils licensing conditions of $3 million.
These items were not included in previous years.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 41
