Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 43 Corporate Responsibility Connecting the ARM Partners to shape a better world Our approach to corporate responsibility takes As ARMs technology increases in Further information and Code Club into account our most material sustainability Code Club supports volunteer programmers working use around the world, connecting detailed case studies can issues and is shaped by our engagement with with primary schools to run clubs that provide an a wide range of stakeholders, including our people with their environment opportunity for children to learn how to code.
The clubs be found in our separate customers, the companies that make up the are free for children to attend and for schools to host.
in new and exciting ways, so CR Report and reporting Code Club brings together volunteers with teachers, ARM ecosystem, our employees, our local schools and venues and provides course materials and communities and wider society.
These are projects to be used in the club sessions.
The projects teach children how to program by showing them how to CR programme expands its available for download In 2014 we began a stakeholder engagement make computer games, animations and websites.
ARM has been a leading sponsor of this organisation since its reach and impact.
This process is continual, but from www.
com inception and will continue to support Code Club as it work carried out across all aspects of the ARMs business model, the CR reporting2014.
expands its coverage throughout the UK.
business has already rened our understanding programme operates through of our stakeholders areas of greatest interest.
This understanding has helped us to update multiple strategic partnerships.
and simplify the four focus areas of ARMs CR We support transformative programme: education, health, environment and communities.
More information can be projects through a combination found on page 45. of ARM technology, the ARM ecosystem and our peoples skills.
44 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility continued... ARMs four strategic principles of Corporate Responsibility Another significant advance we have made this The CR strategy is inspired by the Performance highlights in 2014 Our main principles are: year has been the adoption of KPIs relating to ARM business model delivering Our involvement with member organisations each of the four CR focus areas.
These allow such as the United Nations Global Compact us to measure performance, and ensure stronger, long-term charitable UNGC ensures that we are working that our objectives stay aligned with ARMs Building an ecosystem.
This allows partnerships and ensures that closely with our industry peers and other strategic vision.
Most importantly, these ARM and its Partners to achieve more leading global businesses, keeping in touch new measures test that we are continuing to clear benets are delivered back than they could if operating alone.
with emerging issues and opportunities.
deliver our CR strategy effectively and we are By developing a shared purpose with to the business.
ARM is represented on both the Global communicating transparently.
our CR Partners, we deliver a bigger Compact LEAD and UK networks advisory impact at lower costs boards.
LEAD is a group of 50 multi-nationals Measuring the impact selected out of over 10,000 UNGC members because of their history of engagement and Working with other experts in their During 2014 we spent time working with commitment to corporate responsibility.
Our projects are informed by our CR Partners to develop an approach to robust evidence and are driven by the measure and report on the performance of We are always looking for ways to improve our advice and experience of specialists the CR strategy.
The primary objective is to be systems and processes so that we remain at the able to determine the impact of projects using forefront of developments and trends in CR.
a transparent, simple and credible method.
Encouraging collaboration amongst As a result, and taking into account feedback Partners through promotion, facilitation from stakeholders, we have begun a variety of We have adopted a three-tiered approach to and funding.
This enables ARM and our internal projects to improve our systems and measuring and reporting project performance.
CR Partners to deliver the best solutions processes and to improve our reporting.
This expands upon guidance published by the in the best possible way, supporting London Benchmarking Group From Inputs replicable open-source models As an IP company, we dont have an extensive to Impacts, 2014.
We will be rolling out this supply chain of raw materials coming into the approach to all of our major CR Partners business.
However, we do purchase a wide in 2015.
Key Innovation and creativity from ARM range of goods and services from over 900 and our CR Partners enables us to suppliers.
During 2014 we began a process to Gain share in long-term growth markets tackle complex problems where better understand this supply chain.
This year Increase value per smart device solutions are not obvious nor have we are reporting some high-level data and Generate additional revenues from new technology anestablished precedent during 2015 we will expand our understanding Investing in long-term growth to address supply chain sustainability.
Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 45 such as care for the elderly, food production hackathon in 2013 and won the Cambridge Our communities The focus areas that matter to us and conservation to demonstrate the design University Entrepreneurs competition.
How we engage, respect, support and work Education and application of technologies such as sensors SimPrints also won a prestigious Saving Lives with all our communities is a vital aspect of Our education programme seeks to inspire and IoT.
The materials have been designed at Birth award in 2014 to fund eld trials and is our business.
This includes how we engage not the next generation of engineers.
We have specically to engage more girls in the subject now partnering with Johns Hopkins University only with our people within ARM but also with established a connected education programme whilst remaining just as interesting to boys.
and BRAC a Bangladeshi development the local communities surrounding our offices with our charity CR Partners that takes young organisation to take its product to Bangladesh.
people on a journey of learning from the age At a worldwide level, in September 2014 we of nine through to university where the role of became a Founding Partner of the Global Environment Our communities are not limited to where our CR overlaps with our recruitment activities.
This partnership was founded Taking a responsible approach to the people work and live.
Our CR programme is by the New York Academy of Sciences environment is good business practice as global and we are contributing to projects that with the objective of empowering the next This programme operates on a local, national well as essential in helping the world to tackle increase access to technology for the billions generation of scientific Innovators.
Over the and international scale.
For example, we climate change issues.
ARM has a low impact of people who currently do not benefit from next year we will support the Academy to support national projects in countries where on the environment in relation to the size the social empowerment and wellbeing that it assess how their work can help ARMs UK we have offices, but we also support projects of its business but we strive to improve our can bring.
Partners and how some of the projects we to enhance learning opportunities in some of environmental reporting and performance.
are working on might be scaled up to deliver the poorest countries in the world.
In addition to minimising our direct emissions, Looking forward global benets.
The Global STEM Alliance also ARM technology can play an important role in Our CR projects help tens of thousands of offers our people the opportunity to support During 2014 we continued to deliver great reducing global emissions by enabling greater people each year and we want to do more.
results through our collaborative project with efficiencies in areas such as factory automation In 2015 we will continue to improve our Villiers Park, Smallpeice Trust and Arkwright and building control.
In addition to this, our communication about the vital impact the Scholarships Trust.
This four-way partnership Health technology is at the heart of new strategies projects we support are having but we will also is delivering a connected programme taking We believe that ARM technology and that will deal with other environmental and start to show how we can move from helping talented young people from the age of 14 expertise can make a significant contribution resource challenges such as the management thousands of people to improving the lives through their core learning and exams and to improving access to affordable health care.
of energy grids and water resources.
This programme complements Our projects range from supporting healthother initiatives we are supporting that are focused technology start up businesses and Progress towards our 2020 targets for reducing Our full CR Report, prepared in accordance designed to inspire young people towards marrying them with an established charity such carbon emissions and energy consumption with the Global Reporting Initiative G4 a STEM career.
These include projects such as UNICEF or USAID to deliver impact on slowed in 2014 due to a growth in employee guidelines at the comprehensive level, as Code Club, a UK national scheme which aglobal scale.
numbers and the size of our global estate.
describes how we are going to do this and is designed to teach coding to children aged Since the end of 2009 we have achieved a givesmany case studies and examples.
The Design our Tomorrows 16% reduction in carbon intensity relative to Examples of projects that have demonstrated www.
programme is another excellent example headcount against a target of delivering a 30% significant potential during 2014 include the where ARM is partnering with experts at the reduction by 2020.
Over the same period, our collaboration between the Oxford Centre University of Cambridge Faculty of Education energy intensity based on kWh per employee for Affordable Healthcare Technologies and to develop teaching materials for schools.
has decreased by 16% against a target of SimPrints, who have developed an affordable These practical curriculum guides are designed 15%.
Our 2014 Carbon Disclosure Project and robust way of linking people with their to encourage innovation, engineering and CDP score improved from 75% to 82% for medical records.
SimPrints started life at design for ages 1014 and use social topics disclosure at performance level C. an ARM-sponsored Humanitarian Centre
