Governance Corporate governance statement continued Health, Safety & Environment Committee report Dear shareholder It is my pleasure to present the HSE Committee Report for the year ended 31December 2014.
Key objective The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to health, safety and environmental matters arising out of the activities of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the Groups Health and Safety Framework and Environmental Policy in line with applicable laws and regulations.
It also evaluates and oversees the quality and integrity of the Companys reporting to external stakeholders concerning health, safety and environmental matters.
Terms of reference of the Committee The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, are available on the Groups website www.
co. uk and on request from the Company Secretary.
Nancy Tuor Moore Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment Committee Committee meetings The Chief Executive and the Group Health, Safety & Environment Director attend all meetings of the Committee.
Members of the HSE Committee Membership: Executive Committee have an open invitation to attend meetings Nancy Tuor Moore Chairman from 26 June 2014 where they are encouraged to contribute and present.
Ruth Cairnie Paul Withers Interim Chairman until 26 June 2014 The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year.
During this financial year the Committee met four times.
Activities of the Committee The main activities of the Committee since the last report were as follows: reviewing the Groups safety performance in 2014 against its plan approving the Groups 2015 health, safety and environment plan receiving safety performance reports and updates on progress against the 2014 health, safety and environment plan recommending to the Board new policies on Sustainability and Occupational Health: and receiving updates on regulatory and legal developments.
It was particularly hard to receive the news of an employee fatality in Ghana in June 2014 and underpinned the importance of encouraging and supporting the Think Safe framework in all of our operations across the world.
I have focused my time at Keller to date on meeting the global HSE safety team, to understand their priorities and the safety culture within the Company.
Next year, I shall report on our progress.
Further detail on the Companys HSE performance in 2014 can be found in our Strategic Report on page 24.
Nancy Tuor Moore Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment Committee 2 March 2015 42 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Effectiveness Directors and Directors independence Information and support The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four other Non-executive The Board and each Committee are satisfied that they receive sufficient, Directors and three Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors at reliable and timely information in advance of meetings and are provided the date of this report, together with their biographical details, are set out with all necessary resources and expertise to enable them to fulfil their on page 38.
All of these Directors served throughout the year with the responsibilities and undertake their duties in an effective manner.
exception of Nancy Tuor Moore who was appointed on 26 June 2014.
For each Board and Committee meeting, Directors are provided with a The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to develop tailored Board pack at least one week prior to the meeting.
To improve proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgment, knowledge the delivery and security of Board papers, the Company continues to and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Periodically, the Chairman use an electronic system allowing the Board to easily access information, meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors irrespective of geographic location.
Directors regularly receive additional present.
Apart from formal contact at Board meetings, there is regular information from the Company between Board meetings, including a informal contact between the Directors.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided with all the papers and information Ruth Cairnie, Chris Girling, Nancy Tuor Moore and Paul Withers are all relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues arising directly considered to be independent Non-executive Directors.
Roy Franklin was with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2009.
His other professional commitments are as detailed on page 38.
Board focus areas in 2014 Strategy All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual reviewed and approved the Groups strategic plans and annual budget General Meeting AGM following their appointment and to annual evaluated and approved: re-election thereafter, in accordance with the Code.
a contract bid and award in the Caspian region the acquisition of Ansah, a piling business in Malaysia Board evaluation considered and evaluated further adjacencies to the Group structure.
The Board has continued to make good progress in relation to the findings of its external evaluation, concluded in 2013, particularly with regard to the Risk areas of health and safety, where Nancy Tuor Moore now chairs the HSE considered the principal risks and uncertainties which could impact Committee, and executive succession planning, for which there is now a the Group Group development programme in operation.
reviewed the risk management framework with particular regard to contract and tendering risk.
In 2014, we undertook an internally facilitated review of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
This process was Finance managed by the Company Secretary, under the Chairmans direction.
The considered and approved the refinancing of the Groups syndicated Senior Independent Director directed a review of the Chairman, in parallel.
credit facilities and US private placements considered and agreed the 2014 interim and final dividends.
The review covered: the Board dynamics and the quality of Board discussion: the organisation and working of the Board Committees: the composition Operational performance of the Board, including the skill sets of Directors, their knowledge of the received and considered operational performance presentations business and the balance between Executive and Non-executive Directors: from the MDs of the US, Asia and EMEA regions.
and the Boards interaction and relationship with the Executive Committee.
HSE The evaluation was conducted by way of an online questionnaire, with considered health and safety performance throughout the Group content developed by the Company Secretary, and the Chairman and Senior appointed a new Chairman to the Health, Safety and Environment Independent Director followed up with each respondent individually.
results of the review were discussed at the Boards meeting in December 2014 and a number of areas identified for further action, including Chairman and Non-executive Director succession planning and increased interaction 2014 Board meetings 5 between the Board and Executive Committee.
Strategy Following this process, the Chairman has confirmed that the Directors 2.
Risk standing for election at this years AGM continue to perform effectively pie 34.75mm 3.
Finance and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
HSE 3 2 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43
