Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Introduction Sustainability strategy Sustainability Sustainability means building a well-governed Economic aims Report and profitable business which provides Build successful relationships with customers with the products and services customers through developing products they need the economic aims whilst and services to help them enhance understanding the impact our business their productivity and reduce their has on the environment environmental carbon footprint.
aims and operating in a socially responsible Achieve good governance.
Implement strict processes for The Company Secretary has overall Highlights financial reporting to maintain a strong responsibility for sustainability matters.
Developments, including risks and opportunities, are reviewed annually During 2014 we: Environmental aims by the Board within the context of the Carried out our first Ethics survey.
Seek to manage materials, energy overall Group strategy.
and waste in the most  in educational events to efficient way possible.
Risks and opportunities encourage careers in engineering and We have identified the key risks and technology.
Ensure we report externally on our opportunities to our sustainability strategy environmental initiatives and progress.
Established processes to monitor the and these are set out below.
More carbon implications of our air travel.
Social aims information on principal risks to the Groups overall strategy can be found on pages 16 to Create a culture that attracts and retains Reported on water usage.
Risks are mitigated by the use of extensive Audited more suppliers in Asia.
internal control systems and processes and Adopt values which are reflected in the are regularly reviewed by the Executive Appointed consultants to advise on the way that we work.
Directors and the Audit and Risk Committee implementation of the Energy Savings Ensure that our workplaces are safe.
Invest time, resources and money to help local communities, particularly educational establishments.
Sustainability lies at the heart of our business decision-making, providing an opportunity to link financial and non-financial Opportunities Risks objectives in order to deliver High power costs and energy taxes drive Any future changes in regulation concerning shareholder value in a sustainable customers to seek energy reduction initiatives.
the use and correct disposal of certain materials used in our products could lead manner.
Sustainability entails Increasing focus on alternative non-fossil fuel to increased costs for the development asking both are we doing energy sources such as wind, solar and water of replacement products and or potential power brings new uses for our products.
and are we fines for non-compliance.
High cost and increasing scarcity of some raw doing things right?.
As such, A very small proportion of our products and materials drive customers to improve efficiency it is fully embedded in our processes have potential environmental risks.
In all cases, the legal requirements for the Company strategy, management Regulatory pressures such as carbon taxes, correct handling and labelling of such products systems and operating processes.
landfill taxes, disposal of harmful substances are documented and regularly audited for and limits on vehicle industrial emissions compliance.
mean customers need products and systems As the Company grows its worldwide to demonstrate compliance.
operations, the introduction of new or stricter carbon taxes in any location could increase operating costs.
Loss of key employees in new product development projects may delay product launches if their skills are not readily replaced.
Having operations in many developing areas of the world presents ethical risks resulting from a different perception of the way business may be conducted.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Minimising energy use CASe Study Sustainability In energy-intensive industries such as Reducing raw material wastage cement and steel production, our materials Report in tissue production analysis instruments help drive efficiencies, Our Total Tissue Capability solution helps continued by assessing the shape and size of the paper manufacturers to measure and control raw material particles.
This can generate the tissue manufacturing process.
Fibre substantial reductions in energy use and represents about 45% of the total cost to hence carbon emissions.
produce a ton of tissue, so good consistency measurement and control can save a lot of Another important sector for us is pulp and money.
Unscheduled downtime for production Economic aims paper.
We manufacture instruments that problems costs the tissue industry millions of assess and test the quality, consistency and The Groups mission is to help customers dollars every year in lost production, product colour of pulp before it enters the production to increase yield, improve quality, save time downgrade, slower operating speeds and process, thereby reducing waste and and streamline processes.
Our diagnostics help the improving quality.
We also make durable wide range of manufacturers to reduce their tissue producer to identify the root cause of high-precision ceramic blades which ensure these problems and intervene before damage impact on the environment whilst improving that speciality papers and packaging receive is caused.
their productivity and reducing costs.
exactly the right quantity and consistency For example, on a typical premium tissue Opportunities for business growth stem of coating, which again reduces waste machine, a deterioration in control accuracy from the issues our customers are seeking to and energy use.
of as little as 0.1% can increase a mills fibre address.
As a result, we continue to innovate cost by 80,000 120,000 per year.
This also Internally, we are also focussed on reducing in order to provide appropriate products and has an impact on quality: poor fibre blending energy consumption and a key objective services to help our customers respond affects the softness of the tissue, downgrading of the product development process is to to an increasingly competitive and regulated a premium product to a lower value one.
lower the cost of operating our instruments business environment.
Our direct selling A typical virgin fibre tissue mill produces around by optimising the amount of power they 67,000 tons year of premium and value brand model and our unique understanding of require in use and on stand-by.
Assuming a manufacturers our customers business, together with our selling price of 3,700 ton for premium tissue commitment to aftermarket service and and 2,400 ton for value tissue, if just 1% Cutting emissions support, result in long-standing relationships of annual production had to be downgraded Governments around the world are with our customers and enable us to work for low softness, the mill would lose implementing ever stricter legislation closely with them in the development 870,000 year in profit.
in relation to air quality, especially in cities.
Our instruments can measure the size of fuel particles, which helps to produce Contributing to a sustainable world more efficient injection systems for vehicle At Spectris, sustainability is not just about engines.
Our gas analysis products can how we do business, it is the business we measure pollutants, enabling combustion are in.
Our products help our clients become processes to be optimised, thereby reducing more sustainable, both economically and greenhouse gas emissions generated by environmentally, because they are designed industrial processes.
This helps ensure to improve productivity, reduce waste and compliance with environmental legislation save time, money and resources, including and often forms part of certification testing.
In our view, For example, power stations can save it is a virtuous circle: our products make a anything between 1% and 5% of their fuel significant contribution to the achievement costs by improving combustion efficiency, of a lower carbon world, and these products, which means less energy wasted, less use in turn, drive our own economic success of natural resources, and lower emissions.
New products are designed to help reduce environmental impact for customers whilst helping to drive a sustainable business for Spectris Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 22 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Supporting renewables In addition, we have reported on water usage Energy consumption KPI We have world-leading expertise in providing for the first time in 2014.
This data has been MWh per m revenue solutions for customers involved in renewable verified by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
14 75.7 energy generation in the following areas: We have also asked third-party 13 77.6 consultants Ricardo-AEA to advise on the Wind power 12 79.6 implementation of the Energy Savings The rotor blades are key to wind turbine 11 79.5 Opportunity Scheme Regulations ESOS performance.
They need to be able to 10 90.5 which came into force in July 2014.
This withstand vast temperature and humidity legislation affects significant Spectris entities Excluding acquisitions and disposals made in the year.
differences, and an environment susceptible in Europe and requires the mandatory to strong winds and lightning strikes.
identification and reporting of energy-saving 3 Our instrumentation is used for the design Water usage m opportunities by December 2015. and stress testing of new materials to enable 14 160,251 the blades to withstand these extreme Although we have not set specific Groupconditions.
In addition, as a growing number wide targets, management incentives are in Excluding acquisitions and disposals made in the year.
of turbines are sited offshore, it is vital that place which encourage individual operating they can operate without requiring constant companies to reduce their electricity and In 2013, we commenced the reporting maintenance.
We also provide systems to water consumption, for example, in order of company vehicle miles and refrigerant monitor turbine performance remotely, to improve profitability.
As an example of gas loss, the data for which is reported ensuring that they are set up correctly for initiatives undertaken, one of our operating in Scope 1 emissions in the table below.
optimum performance and that preventive companies has installed a power voltage We also commenced Scope 3 reporting maintenance can be scheduled where regulator which is estimated to save up to by establishing processes to record all air required.
This minimises wear and tear, 10% in annual electricity usage.
miles travelled by Company personnel prevents damage and optimises efficiency, during the year.
Although Scope 3 reporting We also provide environmental data to the saving both time and money.
is not yet mandatory, we believe that it is an Carbon Disclosure Project, a not-for-profit important area and control of air travel may organisation which collects climate change Hydropower be where we can make the most significant data from companies around the world As with offshore wind, maintaining the impact on the environment, after electricity.
and compares their disclosure and emissions machinery involved in hydropower facilities This entails a significant data collection exercise reduction performance.
A high disclosure can be expensive and time-consuming, across our 190 offices around the world.
Not score demonstrates that a company has and small improvements in efficiency and all businesses were in a position to report a provided detailed information about how it uptime can translate into major savings.
complete years data for company vehicle manages its carbon footprint.
Our disclosure Our instrumentation can monitor turbines mileage, refrigerant gas loss or air miles in score of 89 out of 100 in the 2014 survey and generators in real time, to predict and 2013.
In 2014, a full years data was obtained places us in the top quartile of companies prevent problems before they require for all Spectris businesses and, consequently, in our sector and underlines our commitment a costly shutdown in order to be repaired.
there is an increase in Scope 1 and Scope 3 to environmental accountability.
emissions compared with the prior year.
Solar power We also have a presence in the solar energy sector, where our equipment helps ensure that the layers of photovoltaic film in solar Greenhouse gas emissions panels are the correct thickness for maximum Tonnes CO 2 efficiency.
Lighter weight and more flexible 2014 2013 2012 panels provide for an increased range Scope 1 10,380 3,030 2,934 of applications.
Scope 2 35,210 37,024 40,533 Environmental aims Scope 3 26,065 7,152 7,564 As well as helping our customers to reduce Total gross emissions 71,655 47,206 51,031 their impact on the environment, it is also Total carbon emissions per m revenue 61.98 39.27 41.46 a focus for our own efforts.
Although we outsource a high proportion of product Notes 1 Emissions-releasing activities are categorised into three groups, known as scopes.
These are: manufacturing, we still take responsibility for this and work actively with our suppliers Scope 1 direct emissions : Activities owned or controlled by the company that release emissions straight into the atmosphere, for example from combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles: emissions to ensure that our products are made from chemical production in owned or controlled process equipment.
in a responsible manner, and meet our Scope 2 energy indirect : Emissions released into the atmosphere associated with the companys consumption environmental performance standards of purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
We Scope 3 other indirect : Emissions that are a consequence of the companys actions, which occur at sources which monitor the use of key sources of energy the company does not own or control and which are not classed as Scope 2 emissions, for example business travel, waste disposal, or purchased materials or fuels.
electricity, gas, oil and steam and water 2 R aw Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 data is measured and reported by all Spectris operations worldwide.
This data with the aim of reducing consumption is converted into carbon emissions tonnes CO e using the conversion factors from the 2014 DEFRA DEC Guidelines 2 throughout the Group.
The tables opposite for GHG Reporting.
3 Our reporting processes, and the above data derived from them, are verified by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
4 Excluding acquisitions and disposals made in the year.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Social aims Employees by gender and role Sustainability As at 31 December 2014 How we do business Report Male Female Total We have always placed a high priority on the standards by which we do business, because Directors 6 2 8 continued we believe that how we work is as important 1 Senior management 134 25 159 as what we do.
We have a comprehensive strategy in this area and in recent years we Other 5,521 2,311 7,831 have improved our governance processes Total 5,661 2,338 7,998 and oversight, and enhanced our Code of CASe Study % of total 70.8% 29.2% 100% Business Ethics, in order to achieve our Servomex achieves commitment to manage our business 1 Senior management is defined as Company Planet Mark certification according to the highest ethical standards.
employees who are Presidents or Managing Directors and their immediate line 1 reports who are Directors There is more on this on page 28.
In 2014, Servomex achieved The Planet Mark or Vice-Presidents.
for their commitment to improve sustainability Our values are pivotal to how we operate Excludes contractors.
performance at their Technical Centre in and essential to our business success and Crowborough, England, and to engage in a growth.
They underpin the way we work, programme to measure, report and improve guide our decision-making and shape CASe Study environmental, social and related economic our culture.
This third-party certification, Women in engineering in partnership with the Eden Project, is an international recognition of high sustainability Our people Malvern Instruments is a member of the Womens Engineering Society WES.
The carbon footprint for the facility Spectris is a very specialised and technical was calculated at 1,130 t CO e and in line This UK society is a professional, not-for-profit business, and we rely on the skills and 2 network of women engineers, scientists and with their environmental policy, Servomex expertise of our 8,000 people, many of have set a target to reduce equivalent technologists working to inspire women in whom are highly qualified engineers and engineering and offer support and professional emissions by 5% on an annual basis.
We have built our success on development.
Members work together to a combination of operational excellence encourage women to participate and achieve and intelligent innovation, and we know their potential as engineers, scientists and that such innovation requires a way leaders, and inspire others to enter the field.
of working which is open, positive and WES collaborates with partners across the science, technology and engineering respectful, and supports the development environment to demonstrate what women of new ideas, and the taking of reasonable can achieve in so-called non-traditional jobs.
Projects include the National Women in Engineering Day, aimed at raising the profile Diversity and equality and celebrating the achievements of women Ours is a diverse business, with operations in engineering, and Student Engineering at more than 190 locations throughout the Groups, building a network of women world, and employees in over 30 different engineering students across the UK.
We recruit, develop female engineers from Malvern Instruments attended the annual WES conference, and promote our people based on their where they gave presentations on scientific talent, commitment and achievement: applications and hosted conference tables everyone is treated equally and fairly at the evening event.
whatever their race, colour, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age or background.
Our people are key to the success of our business.
As such, we need a workforce based on a diverse group of talent able to provide solutions to a wide range of customers around the world.
We are aware that our current employee base is not fully representative of the geographies we operate in and that the gender balance does not reflect the population as a whole, a common challenge in the engineering sector, as the following table demonstrates.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 24 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 As Spectris grows, there is a need for a more CASe Study structured approach to identify and promote Tomorrows engineers talent across the Group, for example by PANalytical participates in Dutch Technology In order to encourage interest in technology ensuring that any obstacles that exist for Week, a project aimed at promoting technology and engineering as a career, many of our women to progress are overcome and that and technical education to school children.
businesses work closely with local schools and talented women are assisted to fulfil their PANalytical joins other high-tech companies in colleges to promote science to young people.
To address this, we are putting in the region participating in numerous events held HBM participates in the German Girls Day place a programme for succession planning throughout the week.
The children are given Mdchen-Zukunftstag project.
This annual and talent development within each of our a tour of the X-Ray tube manufacturing factory event sees engineering companies, universities operating businesses.
This is being led from in Eindhoven and an assignment to perform, and research organisations open their doors to to help them discover that technology is fun.
the top, with a key strategic objective set female school students, in order to provide an The main event in 2014 was the High-Tech by the Board for the Chief Executive being insight into science and technology professions.
Experience where Dutch astronaut Andr Kuipers The open days help girls to make well-informed to increase the diversity of the Group.
made a lively presentation to the young visitors.
decisions about their future and encourage them Another issue facing engineering companies to choose careers in science and technology.
Every November, BTG opens its doors to young such as Spectris is how to encourage In 2014, around 30 pupils aged between 11 and people for National Future Day.
This event sees more talented young people to pursue 15 spent the day gaining an insight into science youngsters spending a day at work with their careers in manufacturing and engineering.
and engineering at HBMs Darmstadt facility.
parents to experience the world of work.
Girls are Our businesses participate in various encouraged to join their fathers and boys to join initiatives including student internships, their mothers and spend the day with them in the workplace, with the aim of encouraging school apprenticeships, industrial placements, children to consider professions regardless of participation at school careers days and background and gender.
other events designed to raise awareness amongst school children of the At Omega Engineerings Stamford, USA, site, the company has created a Machinist Apprentice opportunities to work in manufacturing programme in order to encourage students and engineering.
to develop technical capabilities in machining, We encourage our employees to maintain tool making and related fields.
This programme a healthy balance between their working is a combination of classes at a local technical and personal lives, and offer flexible part-time college, online courses and on the job training.
Currently, four employees are participating and job-share opportunities to employees in the machinist programme.
with family commitments, wherever possible.
We do not tolerate discrimination or harassment in any form.
Disabled persons Training, development We work hard to build a creative working are recruited, trained and promoted on the and compensation environment for our people with scope basis of aptitude and ability.
If employees Our training programmes help our employees for individual responsibility and personal become disabled, every effort is made to to develop both personally and professionally achievement.
We seek to attract and retain retain them and, when necessary, re-train and reach their full potential.
We carry out the best talent and our compensation and them for appropriate posts.
annual performance reviews to determine benefits schemes are in line with other each individuals training needs and assess leading companies in our sector, with their performance against the previous years rewards dependent on the achievement targets.
Our two principal UK businesses, of individual and corporate objectives.
Malvern Instruments and Servomex, have Our Savings-Related Share Option Scheme received the Investors in People award for is available to all UK employees, and grants their training, appraisal, employee to senior management worldwide under development and skills programmes.
our Performance Share Plan are designed to reward loyalty and performance.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Operational excellence Human rights Sustainability Our human rights policy is consistent with Health and safety the Core Conventions of the International Report As a responsible employer, we take the health Labor Organization, and we comply with and safety of our employees seriously.
We are continued  human rights proud to have an excellent record of safety standards at all our sites.
The policy includes in our workplaces, but we remain vigilant our position on non-discrimination, and track our accident incident rate as a key harassment, pay and forced labour.
Human performance indicator, with the aim of rights considerations are also included in the reducing this to as low a level as reasonably due diligence process we undertake before We regularly conduct employee satisfaction practical.
Local health and safety managers any potential acquisition.
This ensures that surveys as part of an evaluation and and officers carry out regular audits and before we acquire a business, we are fully measurement process, which also includes employee training and suggest improvements informed of their approach in areas such as monitoring the rate of voluntary staff in working practices where appropriate in non-discrimination, equal opportunities turnover in our key regions.
This is compared order to create a safer workplace.
We are and freedom of association.
Our full human against local data for our industry sector in pleased to be able to report that we have rights policy is available on our website.
order that our management teams can not had a death or serious work-related identify any unusual patterns and take the injury for over ten years.
Working with our supply chain appropriate steps to improve employee We collaborate on sustainability both up retention.
Accident Incident Rate KPI and down our value chain, working with our 1 Reportable accidents per 1,000 employees customers and our suppliers.
We encourage Voluntary staff turnover our suppliers to reduce their own impact on 14 4.2 % of staff leaving the Company voluntarily the environment, and share our expertise to 13 4.4 help them do that.
We have strict criteria for total 12 4.7 selecting suppliers and expect them to share 14 5.9 11 2.7 our principles and meet our standards.
13 6.0 10 5.3 Increasingly, our customers are asking us to 12 5.8 1 W ork-related accidents or ill health resulting in lost provide information on how we manage our 11 6.9 time in excess of three days.
Our strategic sourcing team Excluding acquisitions and disposals made in the year.
members work alongside local managers to europe carry out regular inspections at our suppliers 14 3.1 Each of our operating companies is sites and we use the SA 8000:2008 Social 13 3.2 Accountability standard to assess key responsible for implementing the Group- 12 2.7 wide health and safety policy, and for suppliers against criteria such as workers rights, workplace conditions and health, 11 3.3 complying with any additional local regulations.
Our Group policy covers our safety and the environment.
We have Americas continued our supplier audit in the Asia own employees, sub-contractors and 14 5.8 where appropriate our suppliers.
You can Pacific region, with the suppliers audited to date representing approximately 70% read the full policy on our website.
All our 13 6.1 major locations are regularly inspected by of our total purchasing spend in the region 12 5.2 in 2014.
Any current suppliers who decline independent assessors for their compliance 11 5.8 with health and safety policy and procedures.
to undergo an audit against the standard Asia Pacific are removed from the approved list and Any recommendations for improvements are put into practice.
A number of our alternative suppliers are selected.
No new 14 12.2 suppliers are added to the approved list UK offices have achieved certification 13 12.2 to ISO 18001 see section on management if they decline to undergo an audit.
11 16.2 Our full employment policy is published on our website.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 26 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Working with our communities Looking ahead Community involvement and decisions on We will continue to grow our business charitable donations and sponsorship are in a sustainable way, both by developing undertaken by local management teams, products and services which help our and may vary from one company to another, customers to reduce their impact on the depending on business and regional environment and by looking at our own priorities.
As described above, many processes and those of our suppliers in order of the activities we undertake are aimed to lower our direct and indirect impact.
at promoting science and engineering.
In addition to measuring key sources of For example, PANalytical offers the loan energy and GHG emissions Scope 1 and 2, of its spectroscopy instruments to graduate we are now monitoring the carbon students in an annual programme aimed implications of air travel in preparation at inspiring creative research projects.
for the likely future mandatory Scope 3 12 students were selected for the 2014 reporting requirements.
We have asked programme with topics of research including Ricardo-AEA to look into emerging climate change impacts, forest analysis legislation and report on the most with satellite imagery, forensic science effective way for Spectris to respond and industrial polymerisation.
Malvern to the increasing requirements.
Instruments are supporting STEMNET, Spectris remains a constituent of the a project designed to encourage young FTSE4Good Index Series, the leading people to learn more about Science, responsible investment benchmark.
Companies in this index are regularly In one project, Malvern employees ran assessed on environment, social and sessions on design, marketing and business governance issues.
planning to help local school children develop a Dragons Den buggy in Business ethics will remain central to the way conjunction with local car manufacturer we operate, and in 2015 we will be planning Morgan Motors.
our programme based on the results of the first global ethics survey, as described in the Ethics Report on pages 28 and 29.
Management systems The training and development of our own and certification people will again be an important area Over 60% of our own manufacturing in the coming year, with particular focus operations by turnover are certified to on developing a more diverse workforce.
ISO 14001:2004 for Environmental Management Systems, including our head office.
The head office and our principal UK offices also have certification to OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems.
Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA have independently verified the data associated with energy consumption, water usage, greenhouse gas GHG emissions, voluntary staff turnover and accident incident rate.
The LRQA Assurance Statement confirming terms of engagement, approach, opinion and observations is available on our website at www.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27
