Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Our main areas of focus during 2014 were A culture of openness and support Ethics Report continuous employee engagement and We actively encourage a culture of openness, training, implementation of our third-party engagement and communication, so due diligence framework for our sales employees feel they can discuss any issues channel and our first Group-wide that arise in the course of their work, and ethics survey.
raise any concerns with their managers.
93% of our employees indicated in our ethics Training, engagement and support survey that they prefer to report a violation Our engagement strategy focusses on to their supervisor.
Further details of the raising awareness among employees that ethics survey are set out opposite.
Running our business in an ethical running our business in an ethical way Our independent hotline way makes good business sense.
makes good business sense and providing www.
com gives our people, practical training to help them with business partners and other third parties We believe that an ethical ethical decision-making.
the ability to report concerns anonymously approach to responsible business In April, a comprehensive fair competition if they wish.
All reports are followed practice is integral to achieving e-learning course covering cartels and up and investigated and the results are our business strategy, as well as restrictive agreements, interactions with communicated to the Audit and Risk being a vital element of effective competitors and managing internal Committee every six months.
communications was launched to a commitment to protect the careers and approximately 2,700 employees in our senior reputations of employees who report management, business development, sales, wrongdoing, as long as they do so in good Our ethics training and marketing, procurement, customer support, faith and in the best interests of the Group.
engagement strategy legal and contract management teams.
During 2014, 20 reports were received via This was followed up with Train the Trainer Values and risk-based training.
the hotline or reported to operating company sessions which reinforced learning for or head office management.
Some reports Interactive and engaging.
approximately 80 managers across the related to human resources grievances which Group and equipped them to cascade Delivery by senior and line managers.
were investigated and resolved at operating training to their teams.
Other issues related to of the relevant employees had received infringements of the Code of Business Ethics Online modules to reinforce awareness.
training at the date of this report.
Refresher and, following investigation, additional anti-bribery workshops were held in a New employees, including those who join guidance, training and monitoring was the Group following an acquisition, receive number of locations across the Group in May.
made available or disciplinary action was training on the Code of Business Ethics Training is delivered in local language to aid taken as appropriate.
and other relevant topics within six months employee understanding where necessary.
Key training events that took place during 2014 are shown in the time-line below.
We remain focussed on values and risk-based engagement and are dedicated to facilitating discussion between all employees in order to build an environment in which employees feel empowered to act according to our shared values.
Our engagement and training plan will continue into 2015 and beyond and will be developed to address key risk areas that are identified.
2014 key training events JanFeb MarApr MayJun JulAug SepOct NovDec Fair competition e-learning course AntiFair competition Fair competition face-to-face training bribery Train the Trainer workshops, held at operating refresher face-to-face workshops company level, continuing into 2015 training Ethics leadership engagement session senior new hires Third-party due diligence webinars and video library Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Senior management and Ethics survey dimensions employee certification Clarity of standards The degree to which rules and procedures are concrete so Managers are expected to demonstrate that employees know what is expected of them with regard ethical leadership and are required to certify to ethical conduct.
annually that they have created and fostered an open ethical culture.
For certification Role modelling The degree to which management sets a good example purposes, senior management includes the for employees.
Executive team, operating company Enabling environment The degree to which the Companys targets correspond to Presidents as well as the regional Presidents pre-determined values and norms and whether sufficient time, for Asia and South America, the Finance resources and information are available to realise responsibilities.
and Administrative Head in Russia, Vice Presidents, Country Managers and Support for integrity The degree to which management and employees feel motivated Senior Sales Managers and Ethics Officers.
to actively uphold the Companys values.
100% of senior managers had confirmed Transparency The degree to which behaviour of management and employees compliance for the year ended 31 December is visible within the organisation.
2014 as at the date of this report.
All new employees certify compliance with Openness to The degree to which employees can discuss dilemmas and feel discuss dilemmas comfortable raising and addressing concerns.
the Code of Business Ethics upon completion of their initial ethics training.
Comfort to report The degree to which employees are called to account about misconduct unethical behaviour.
Third-party due diligence We have seen good progress with the Enforcement The degree to which desired behaviour is rewarded and misconduct first stage of our third-party management punished and people learn from mistakes and incidents.
programme, initially addressing our sales channel.
Details can be found within the Audit and Risk Committee Report on Ethics survey scores page 55.
Clarity of standards Ethics survey 100% We launched our first ethics survey in 90% October.
The survey measured a number 80% of dimensions to help us assess our Enforcement Role modelling 70% ethical culture and the effectiveness 60% of our programme.
The dimensions are 50% set out opposite.
40% 30% All employees were invited to participate 20% in the independently-run anonymous 10% Comfort to survey.
Survey scores against each Enabling 0 report environment dimension measured are set out opposite.
misconduct Over half of our employee population participated in the survey.
We are encouraged by the response rate, which we are advised is at a high level for these types of survey.
The survey feedback, Openness Support employee views derived from hotline to discuss of employees reports and face-to-face training will dilemmas for integrity help us continue to evolve and improve our programme.
Transparency of misconduct Clarity of standards 90 80 70 Enforcement Role modelling 60 50 40 30 20 10 Comfort to 0 Enabling report misconduct environment Openness to Support of employees Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 discuss dilemmas for integrity Transparency of misconduct
