Strategic report Sustainability report We are investing to improve the sustainability of our operations because it is the right thing to do for the longterm prospects of our business, our key stakeholders and the environment.
Nick Anderson Group Chief Executive Sustainability is one of the six key strategic priorities through which we are driving growth and achieving shareholder value.
Managing sustainability We have a clear and welldefined management structure in place to Operating sustainably and helping to improve our customers sustainability help us achieve our sustainability objectives.
Creating a more sustainable Supported by way of life CEO Responsible for Companys Board of Directors sustainability strategy Managing our own social and Innovating and manufacturing environmental impacts.
products to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of our customers operations.
Group EHS Executive Group Supply Director Creating a sustainable way of life: the Group HR Director business case As an organisation, we believe that we have an ethical responsibility Other senior managers to manage our economic, environmental and social impacts, while helping our customers and suppliers to do the same.
Ensure policies, systems and reporting metrics are in place to achieve the Groups sustainability objectives We also believe that it makes good business sense to do so: a focus on sustainability drives behaviours that cut costs and increase operational efficiency, while creating new business opportunities Divisional Directors, Regional and and mitigating risk.
Sustainability enhances our competitive edge, helps us achieve growth that outperforms our markets and deliver General Managers shareholder value.
Ensure the Groups sustainability policies are upheld and implemented by our operating companies Sustainability: core to our strategy for growth Sustainability is one of the six key strategic priorities through which we are driving growth and achieving shareholder value.
Sustainability is at the core of our business operations, driving our strategy to innovate and manufacture products that improve the Employees and organised sustainability and competitiveness of our customers operations, while managing our own social and environmental impacts.
employee groups As a global business, we recognise that in an increasingly resource Oversee and report on key aspects of sustainability within constrained and competitive world, we have an obligation to create a their workplaces at a local level more sustainable way of life, an aim that is reflected in the standards we set ourselves every day.
46 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sustainability: a strategic review In summary: progress to date During 2014, we continued to invest management time into Sustainability materiality assessment completed with an developing and furthering our sustainability agenda.
We commenced external consultant a sustainability review, facilitated by an external consultant, Carbon Clear, with the aim of enhancing our Group sustainability strategy.
Sustainability strategy broadened to include five core areas The review began with a materiality assessment of sustainability Sustainability objectives redefined topics, using the guidelines outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative Next steps namely assessing the impacts positive or negative that each topic has the potential to exert on the business, the extent to which Strategic sustainability review to be continued in 2015 we have power to influence performance and outcomes, and their Further refinements to be made significance to stakeholders.
As a result of this assessment we have broadened our sustainability strategy to encompass five core areas: our workplaces, our environment, our customers, our communities and our supply chain.
We have also redefined our key sustainability objectives, as outlined below.
The sustainability review will continue into 2015.
We have identified sponsors for each of our sustainability objectives and will form crossfunctional teams to review current performance, reporting metrics and future development opportunities.
Where necessary, we will implement more reliable data collection processes to ensure that we are monitoring and recording progress accurately against each of our objectives.
Finally, we will focus on employee engagement to ensure widespread commitment to achieving our objectives across the Group.
Understanding and focusing on material sustainability areas To achieve H&S excellence through engagement, empowerment and fostering good behaviours, 1.
Our workplaces while targeting zero accidents To provide for the ongoing training and development of our people To promote diversity and equality through employment practices that are free from discrimination and in accordance with international human rights principles To act in accordance with our Core Values, upholding a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption To limit the environmental impacts of our operations through reducing water use and minimising 2.
Our environment and managing effluent and waste To minimise the environmental impacts of our operations by managing energy consumption with the aim of reducing carbon emissions To provide products and services that improve the sustainability of our customers operations 3.
Our customers through helping them to improve plant efficiency and productivity, reduce energy and water use and maintain product quality To engage positively with the communities in which we operate and to offer financial support to 4.
Our communities approved charities To embed sustainability criteria into our purchasing processes 5.
Our supply chain Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 4.
Strategic report Strategic report Sustainability report continued Our workplaces Objective To achieve health and safety H&S excellence through engagement, empowerment and fostering good behaviours, while targeting zero accidents Target: Zero accidents Accidents with over seven Total number of accidents Total number of accidents days of lost time per 1,000 with over seven days of with over three days of employees losttime losttime 2014 5.4 2014 26 2014 31 2013 4.4 2013 21 2013 32 2012 5.5 2012 26 2012 32 2011 6.0 2011 28 2011 36 systems are in effect in all our operating companies, with eight of our We are empowering our people 15 manufacturing sites certified to OHSAS 18001 2013: seven.
to take action to mitigate risk During 2014, our over seven days of lost time accident rate increased and strengthening the H&S slightly to 5.4 per 1,000 employees and the total number of over seven day accidents increased by five to 26 incidents.
The H&S culture across the Group.
benchmark that we use is the RIDDOR over seven day accident rate in the UK manufacturing sector, which was 3.99 accidents per 1,000 employees in 2013 2014.
We are disappointed not to have achieved a below industry average accident rate during 2014.
Mark Wyatt Group Environment, Health Although the total number of accidents that resulted in over seven and Safety EHS Executive days of lost time increased during 2014, we saw a significant difference between the first and second halves of the year.
During the first six months of the year, a total of 19 over seven day Performance in 2014 lost time accidents occurred, an average of three per month, while Looking after the health and wellbeing of our people is a key during the latter six months of the year just seven such accidents priority for the Group.
We are striving to achieve excellence in our occurred, an average of one per month.
If we are able to maintain H&S performance, ensuring that our workplaces are safe for our the much lower accident rate achieved during the latter half of 2014, employees, contractors and visitors.
We seek to promote a H&S our accident rate during 2015 will be significantly below the industry culture throughout the organisation, through employee engagement, average benchmark.
empowerment and the fostering of good behaviours.
During 2014, the total number of accidents that resulted in over three The Group Chief Executive and Board have overall responsibility days of lost time fell slightly to 31 accidents 2013: 32.
Since 2011, for H&S, and review H&S matters at least biannually.
During 2014, the total number over three day lost time accidents has fallen we appointed Mark Wyatt as Group EHS Executive.
responsibility for the daytoday management of EHS across the Group, facilitates the sharing of best practice and ensures that During the latter half of 2014, in particular, we made significant appropriate processes are in place for collecting and reporting changes to the way we manage H&S across the Group and we H&S data.
At a local level, H&S officers and committees record and believe that our significantly reduced serious accident rate during the report data and review H&S performance, while General Managers second half of the year is reflective of the increased focus on H&S have ultimate responsibility for ensuring the implementation of H&S and a result of initiatives that have been introduced.
policies and procedures within their operating companies.
During 2014 we established an improved Group accident All H&S accidents, near misses and incidents of occupational investigation process.
The process standardises a common diseases are recorded locally and reported monthly, with RIDDOR approach across the Group and allows each operating company recordable accidents and incidents being reported immediately to to thoroughly investigate incidents to identify the root cause of an the Group EHS Executive.
A followup report is expected within two accident, using a 5 Why approach.
A strengths of defences days of the accident report, detailing improvements made to prevent matrix has been established to capture good H&S practices and a repeat of the incident.
improve defences with the aim of preventing future risks.
A corrective action matrix has also been established, which is tracking corrective All of our operating companies are expected to adhere to the Group actions to completion.
These matrices are regularly reviewed by the H&S Policy.
Each operating company is also expected to have a Group EHS executive, to ensure that strong H&S defences have more detailed local policy in place.
Appropriate H&S management been identified and implemented.
48 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our workplaces Objective To provide for the ongoing training and development of our people Target: 10 days of training per customer facing employee Accidents with over seven days of lost time Average number of formal training days per 1,000 employees during 2014 percustomer facing employee Total accidents Six month average 5 2014 7.4 4 2013 7.2 3 2 2012 5.6 1 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Twoweekly H&S review meetings conference calls have been Performance in 2014 established and these are attended by H&S officers from all of Recruiting high calibre employees and developing their skills our manufacturing sites.
Details of all incidents and near misses is essential for the longterm sustainability of the business.
are shared during the meetings and all of our sites are expected The knowledge and skills of our customer facing sales and service to quickly implement changes to ensure that no recurrence of the engineers is one of our key differentiators and is central to our incident occurs in their locality.
ability to offer value to customers.
It is also one of the six strategic We have continued to roll out our Behavioural Based Safety BBS priorities through which we are driving growth and delivering programme across our manufacturing sites and have established shareholder value.
a mentoring system with Spirax Sarco Inc. USA the first Group The Group Human Resources Director has ultimate responsibility company to establish BBS mentoring the manufacturing for ensuring the professional development of our people, he is companies in Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, and the Group EHS supported in this by the Group Head of Learning and Talent.
Executive mentoring our other manufacturing organisations.
At alocal level, the Companys management structure provides for Four manufacturing companies adopted BBS during 2014 and we mentoring and the professional development of all our employees.
will continue to roll out the programme during 2015.
Our engineers are expected to participate in ongoing training and H&S awareness training is a key component of BBS.
All our we provide opportunities for them to do so, through a combination manufacturing facilities hold regular EHS training sessions.
of classroom based, online and onthejob learning.
Our engineers For example, every month the entire workforce at the Spirax Sarco receive intensive training to build their knowledge of products and manufacturing facility in the USA participate in an EHS training applications, and accumulate significant experience over typically session which is delivered by the EHS leader.
Tool box talks are many years.
held at Spirax Sarco UKs manufacturing site, while our Spirax Sarco We have 45 training centres worldwide, which are used by both our operating company in France holds a threeday training event for employees and our customers.
We also have an extensive elearning field engineers annually, which includes EHS awareness training.
library which contains courses on a wide variety of topics, such as Spirax Sarco Inc. 's BBS programme and monthly EHS training event condensate removal, customer service, project management and are two of the key drivers that have helped the Company to achieve problem solving.
over one year without a lost time accident.
In celebration, they During 2014, we slightly increased the average number of formal recently held an award dinner for employees with prizes given for training days per customer facing employee and added 36 new commitment to the Companys health and safety programmes.
elearning courses to our library.
Central to our Group H&S programme is the empowerment of Our Spirax Sarco Leadership Academy prepares promising employees to identify and report potential hazards in the workplace employees for future leadership positions within the Group.
and to exercise their right to withdraw from unsafe work areas.
Since launching in 2011, 42 of our future leaders have attended a In this way, we seek to prevent accidents before they occur.
twoweek Advanced Management Programme, run by the Ashridge During 2015 we will launch a new H&S excellence vision that will Business School, 15 of those during 2014. be based on a leading indicator programme.
The programme will include an employee concern reporting system, further H&S In addition to supporting the professional development of our people, training, an enhanced near miss reporting system and an action we provide training on our Core Values, the environment, health and tracking system.
The leading indicator programme will prevent the safety, and antibribery and corruption, ensuring that our employees occurrence of incidents, driving down lagging indicators such as the understand their personal responsibility in these areas.
accident rate, making our workplaces safer.
Read more on page 21 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 4.
Strategic report Strategic report Sustainability report continued Our workplaces Objective To promote diversity and equality through employment practices that are free from discrimination and in accordance with international human rights principles Target: 25% women on our Board as opportunities arise Board gender diversity Senior management Total workforce gender gender diversity diversity Males: 348 Females: 68 Males: 3,792 Females: 1,005 Males: 8 Females: 1 SpiraxSarco Engineering plc is a member of the Business Disability We promote all aspects of Forum, an organisation that offers help and support to companies that are striving to increase their disability awareness, through giving equality and actively develop practical advice and sharing best practice.
diverse management teams Achieving an even balance between the genders is a common with different backgrounds challenge within the engineering sector as internationally there and experiences, contributing remains a preponderance of males with engineering qualifications, to our highly successful global as well as entrenched gender stereotyping associated with business.
Through our work in the community we are trying to address this imbalance and encourage students, Frank Richardson irrespective of gender, to consider engineering as a career see Group Human Resources Director page 54.
Graduate recruitment is a key area of focus through which we are seeking to address the gender imbalance in our Performance in 2014 business.
For example, during 2014 Spirax Sarco UK recruited four We recognise that diversity of gender, age, culture, experience and engineering graduates: two males and two females.
We also work expertise serve to enhance our ability to govern and operate the with universities to offer Year in Industry placements to engineering business effectively and ethically.
students and attend Graduate Engineering shows.
Through contact with young engineers we aim to spread the message that Spirax We are fully committed to the principle of equal opportunity in Sarco is a great place to work and an equal opportunities employer.
employment and ensure that all applicants and employees receive equal treatment during their recruitment, transfer, promotion, training The Group supports the human rights principles set out in the and assessment of salary and benefits, irrespective of sex, race, Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Core Conventions gender reassignment, disability, sexual orientation, age, religion, of the International Labour Organisation.
Our Group Human Rights beliefs, pregnancy or maternity, marriage or civil partnership.
We are Policy recognises that all individuals have the right to lead a dignified also committed to maintaining workplaces free from discrimination, life, free from fear and want, and free to express independent beliefs.
It also includes the right of all employees to equal opportunities and nondiscriminatory treatment, security of person, a safe working As an international business with a direct sales presence in 55 environment and a fair wage.
We also recognise the rights of children countries worldwide, diversity is an integral part of our operations.
and reject the use of forced or compulsory labour.
For example, the General Managers of our operating companies represent over 35 nationalities.
Diversity is also a feature of our Board We communicate regularly with our employees through a variety of of Directors, with Board members variously having British, American channels, such as facetoface meetings and employee surveys.
and Dutch citizenship and an overseas citizenship of India.
Our aim is to ensure that all our employees are informed about, and are engaged in, their part of the business locally, while having We give full and fair consideration to applications for employment a wider understanding of the Group and its future direction.
made by disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes Such communication channels also provide opportunities for and abilities.
We have practices in place to facilitate the continuing employees to air grievances or raise concerns which can then be employment of those who may become disabled during the reviewed and appropriately addressed.
period in which they are employed by the Company, and disabled persons are entitled to the same opportunities for training, career development and promotion as all other Company employees.
50 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our workplaces Our environment Objective Objective To act in accordance with our Core Values, upholding To limit the environmental impacts of our operations a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption through reducing water use and minimising and managing effluent and waste Target: Zero incidents of bribery or corruption Target: All our operating companies to achieve ISO 14001: 2004 We will not tolerate breaches of by the end of 2016 our AntiBribery and Corruption Employees working in operations Policy: any suspected with ISO 14001 % infringements will be thoroughly investigated.
2014 73 2013 66 Andy Robson 2012 59 General Counsel and 2011 47 Company Secretary Performance in 2014 Performance in 2014 Our Core Values of respect, accountability, passion, integrity and ISO 14001 is an international environmental management standard delivery, provide the foundation upon which we make our decisions, which demonstrates that the environmental impacts of a business drive innovation and manage our global operations.
The practice of are being managed and reduced.
The certification process is our Core Values makes us more competitive in the marketplace and rigorous and requires external auditing against prescribed standards, a better company to work for.
including waste management and energy consumption.
This year we have further increased the total number of our employees who work In addition to our Core Values, our Group Management Code in operations covered by ISO 14001 to 73% 2013: 66%.
We have articulates the standards that we expect everyone in the Group to set a rigorous target for all our operating companies to achieve meet, including the requirement to comply with laws, regulations and ISO 14001: 2004 by the end of 2016.
Group policies: the rejection of bribery and corruption: the promotion of ethical business practices: the fair treatment of customers: We recognise that clean water is a valuable resource that should be the confidentiality of information: and respect for our people, managed effectively.
While excellent water management practices communities and the environment.
are in place locally in some of our operating companies, it is our aim to improve water management across the Group.
We do not It is Group policy to conduct business free from bribery and currently collect water use data at a Group level, but it is our intention corruption.
We will not enter into contractual relationships with third to commence Groupwide data collection during 2015.
Once a parties who are known to engage in corrupt practices and we will water consumption baseline is established, we will actively monitor not be involved in giving or receiving bribes or favours.
In accordance and manage performance at a Group level and set water use with Group policy, we do not make political donations.
We raise employee awareness of our Core Values and the Reducing the amount of waste generated by our operations and Group Management Code through our induction processes, the the quantity of waste sent to landfill is an important component of requirement for all employees to sign up to the Group Management managing our environmental sustainability.
Recycling schemes are Code and training.
in operation across the Group and we have dedicated contractors to All Directors, senior managers and employees who have regular proactively manage waste.
In addition to working hard to manage contact with customers or suppliers must take part in antibribery waste once it is generated, we seek to prevent the creation of waste and corruption training and pass an online test to demonstrate their within our operations.
For example, through reducing the quantity understanding of the Groups AntiBribery and Corruption Policy of packaging materials and using sustainably sourced and recycled and its implementation.
Since its introduction in 2012, over 3,500 materials wherever possible when shipping our products around employees have completed this training.
In this way the Group the Group and to customers, we prevent the creation of waste and ensures that it has implemented adequate procedures to comply reduce landfill.
Although we have been monitoring waste production and recycling It is the responsibility of all employees to alert their manager to for some time, we do not currently have robust Groupwide waste any breach of Group policies or procedures.
If an employee has management and recycling data: it is our intention to improve our reasonable grounds for believing that the Group Management Code data collection processes during 2015. is being breached and does not receive a satisfactory response, or feels unable to voice the matter with his or her manager, he or she is able to contact the Company Secretary in Cheltenham and provide full details.
The Company Secretary will ensure that the allegation is properly investigated and the employment of the person contacting the Company Secretary will be protected appropriately.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 4.
Strategic report Strategic report Sustainability report continued Our environment Objective To minimise the environmental impacts of our operations by managing energy consumption with the aim of reducing carbon emissions Target: To achieve a yearonyear reduction in our CO e emissions intensity 2 CO e intensity tonnes per Total Group CO e emissions Greenhouse gas GHG 2 2 m of inflation adjusted sales, scope 1 and 2 tonnes emissions inventory Scope 1 and 2 emissions at constant currency Scope 1 Scope 2 2014 50.8 2014 34,431 Electricity 53% 2013 51.8 2013 33,961 Business travel 20% 2012 44.9 2012 29,266 Natural gas 24% 2011 45.9 2011 29,392 Other 3% 2010 48.2 2010 29,579 We have employed an operational control definition to outline We are investing in energy our carbon footprint boundary.
Included within that boundary are efficient equipment and manufacturing facilities, administrative and sales offices where we have authority to implement our operating policies.
For each of these systems to improve our entities we have measured and reported on our relevant Scope 1 CO e emissions intensity.
Scope 1 refers to direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Company: Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of energy generated off site, including electricity.
Excluded from our footprint boundary Mark Wyatt are entities where we do not have operational control.
In 2014 this Group Environment, Health included Spirax Marshall Private Ltd and Econotherm.
Also excluded and Safety EHS Executive from the footprint boundary are emission sources from operating companies established during 2014 and from companies acquired Performance in 2014 during the year.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and To demonstrate our commitment to measuring, managing and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion disclosing our emissions, our CO e 2014 emissions data have been 2 Factors for Company Reporting 2014 to calculate our total CO e 2 audited by TV Nord UK, who have provided limited assurance emissions figures.
as follows: Several important steps were taken during 2014 to improve energy TV NORD UK is acting as the independent verifier of the carbon management across the Group.
For example, Spirax Sarco Korea footprint of SPIRAX SARCO.
Based on our checks and reviews, became our first operating company to obtain ISO 50001, an taking into consideration a materiality level of 10% and a limited energy management standard which enables organisations to more level of assurance we have found no evidence suggesting that the efficiently manage energy.
calculated greenhouse gas emissions are materially misstated and, hence, they are not an unreasonable assertion of the greenhouse To improve energy management and reduce carbon emissions gas-related data and information.
at the Spirax Sarco manufacturing and R&D site in Cheltenham, UK, the most energy intensive of our operations, during 2014 we Further, no facts became evident, which led us to the assumption commissioned and installed both a Building Energy Management that the calculation was not carried out in accordance with the System BEMS and a Combined Heat and Power plant CHP.
applied international norm for the quantification, monitoring and The BEMS enables the identification of areas of high energy reporting of GHG emissions GHG-Protocol.
consumption or inefficiency within the plant which can then be The emissions for the reporting period 1st January 2014 to targeted to increase efficiency.
The CHP plant simultaneously 31stDecember 2014 inclusive are: 16,273 tCO e for Scope 1 2 generates usable heat and power electricity in a single process.
2 It employs a gas engine to drive an alternator and the resulting TV NORD UK electricity is used on site.
The heat produced during power London generation is recovered and used to raise steam, which is used in March 2015 our production and testing facilities.
While our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e emissions increased In addition, Spirax Sarco South Africa installed solar panels and 2 marginally this year, we reduced our CO e emissions intensity energy saving lighting, to generate renewable energy and reduce 2 by 2% to 50.8 tonnes per m of inflation adjusted sales at energy use on site.
52 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our customers Objective To provide products and services that improve the sustainability of our customers operations through helping them to improve plant efficiency and productivity, reduce energy and water use and maintain product quality Tonnes of CO e emissions our customers 2 saved as a result of purchasing our energy management products 2014 4.8m 2013 4.6m 2012 4.9m 2011 4.0m Performance in 2014 Customer case studies: Helping our customers to achieve their environmental targets, through improving plant efficiency, reducing energy and water usage Spirax Sarco, China helps Jiangxi Xinglin Baima and maintaining product quality and hence avoiding waste, is central Pharmaceutical Company Ltd reduce annual coal to our sustainability strategy and business model.
consumption by 200 tonnes Reducing CO e emissions is one of the key drivers that our 2 With a desire to increase energy efficiency and reduce associated customers have for improving their onsite energy management.
costs, the Jiangxi Xinglin Baima Pharmaceutical Company, located We estimate that the Spirax Sarco energy management products in Nanchang, China, recently asked Spirax Sarco to complete an sold during 2014 will reduce our customers CO e emissions by 2 energy survey of their steam system.
The methodology used to determine The survey found that inappropriately selected and poorly sized these savings has been independently assessed with the assistance steam traps were resulting in steam leakage and a buildup of RicardoAEA Ltd.
The methodology remains unchanged but is of condensate in the steam system, reducing plant efficiency.
reviewed annually by RicardoAEA taking revised emission factors Our knowledgeable engineer was able to identify and install the into account.
The calculation is based on a selected range of energy most appropriate type and size of steam traps throughout the steam saving products, for which we can quantify savings with reasonable system to optimise efficiency.
Many of our other products, such as pressure and temperature controls, will also provide CO e savings but as these are 2 The new steam traps have now been in use for one year.
During that not easily quantifiable they are excluded from our methodology.
time daily coal consumption has been reduced by over 6% saving 200 tonnes of coal in a year.
As a result of these impressive The design and unique action of our pumps, as well as the greater improvements in energy efficiency, the pharmaceutical company efficiency that our customers can achieve as a result of the won an award from the Nanchang Energy Saving Office.
application of our pumps to their processes, can provide substantial energy savings over other pump types.
For example, our MasoSine pumps are designed to gently handle highly viscous products such MasoSine pumps save orange juice manufacturer as raw silicone gum, used in industrial applications.
Alternative pump 28,000kWh electricity per year technologies require large electrical motors to handle viscous The energy saving benefits of our MasoSine pumps were central fluids, which results in a high demand on electrical power.
to an orange juice manufacturers recent decision to purchase MasoSine pumps are unaffected by high viscosity and use smaller two SPS500 pumps to move highly viscous fruit juices at their motors compared with other established technologies, requiring less manufacturing site in the USA.
Our customer had considered alternative pump types, each of In addition to improving energy efficiency and reducing our which required a 45kW electrical motor to power the pump to customers CO e emissions, our products and services often help to 2 enable it to handle the highly viscous fluids.
When our sales engineer reduce water consumption.
For example, within the mining industry demonstrated the ability of a MasoSine pump to handle fluids using the application of a peristaltic pump from WatsonMarlow results in only a 31kW electrical motor, the benefits of our pumps were clear.
an average water saving of over 70%, in comparison with common centrifugal pumps.
For our steam customers, our products and Assuming 1,000 operating hours a year four hours day, five days services can reduce water consumption in many ways, for example week, 50 weeks year each MasoSine pump installed at the factory through improving the management of condensate and returning it saves the customer 14,000kWh of electricity and reduces CO 2 to the boiler house: capturing and utilising flash steam, which would emission by 7,000kg.
otherwise be lost to atmosphere: or improving the quality of boiler feed water, thus reducing the need for boiler blowdown.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 STAPS wireless steam trap monitor 4.
Strategic report Strategic report Sustainability report continued Our communities Objective To engage positively with the communities in which we operate and to offer financial support to approved charities Group Charitable Trust donations 000 2014 140 2013 136 2012 132 2011 132 2010 112 be given to registered charities Community engagement assist with disaster relief, particularly where our employees or is more than charitable their families might be affected, regardless of location in theworld donations, it is giving our not be given to any cause which conflicts with our Ethics Policy talents and time to make not be given to political parties.
We encourage our employees to be involved in contributing their time and resources towards improving the quality of life in the communities in which they live and work, and support them in Klaus Rmler their efforts.
Our employees frequently undertake independent Divisional Director, Asia Pacific fundraising initiatives and raise significant funds for charitable causes that have particular importance to them.
For example, this year a group of six Spirax Sarco employees participated in a 24hour relay Performance in 2014 race in Shanghai, China to raise money for a charity that provides As a responsible business we recognise the importance of positively free operations for children born with a cleft lip or palate.
The six affecting the communities in which we operate.
Through providing runners five males and one female between them ran 325km in just employment that fairly remunerates people for the work they do, we 24 hours.
Spirax Sarco China donated the race entrance fee and contribute to the economic wellbeing of individuals, families and the made a contribution to the charity after the race.
local economies of the areas in which we operate.
We supplement this through making charitable donations and engaging in our As a Group we place particular emphasis on education, particularly local communities.
in the fields of science and engineering.
For example, every year Spirax Sarco UK sponsors the Cheltenham Science Festival and The Spirax Sarco Group Charitable Trust Trust makes donations in designs a stand, which is manned by our employees, through accordance with the Group Charitable Donations Policy and focuses which it engages children in the science of steam and its modern its donations in the following areas: education: social services for applications.
The Company also hosts STEMnet Science, the less advantaged, disabled or abused: healthcare: the arts: the Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Network events for local environment: and disaster relief.
school pupils at our Cheltenham site.
During 2014, Spirax Sarco During 2014, the Trust made 44 donations, ranging from 150 to Korea held free classes for university students whose major is in 20,000.
Charitable donations were made to a geographically mechanics, chemical or other engineeringrelated fields, at their widespread and diverse range of charities.
For example, the Trust livesteam training facility in Seoul.
donated 10,000 to the Cheltenham Open Door charity which Charitable giving is currently organised locally by our operating offers relief to people of a rootless way of life, and made a sizable companies.
"However, under the direction of Klaus Rmler, Divisional donation to Masagna UK's ""Mentor Ebola Initiative"" which is focused Director, the Asia Pacific division of Spirax Sarco is taking steps on educating local communities to prevent practices that spread to better coordinate community engagement across the region."
As well as increasing reporting and data collection, Klaus has In addition to donations made by the Trust, a further 47,000 set community engagement targets and during 2015 will begin a 2013: 64,000 was donated to charitable causes by our operating programme of education to raise awareness of the importance of companies during 2014. community engagement across our operating companies in the Asia Pacific region.
The following principles guide our charitable donations.
Donations should: benefit the largest possible number of people benefit people in our local area 54 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STEMnet event for local school pupils, Cheltenham Our supply chain Objective To embed sustainability criteria into our purchasing processes We are systematically working with our suppliers to develop a more sustainable supply chain.
Ian Farnworth Group Supply Chain Director Health and safety Performance in 2014 Suppliers should have appropriate H&S policies and procedures Embedding sustainability criteria into our purchasing processes is and these should be demonstrable in the workplace central to ensuring the sustainability of our supply chain.
Our Supplier Development Guide Guide outlines the expectations that we have Suppliers should monitor compliance with a H&S policy for our suppliers, particularly in relation to their employees.
Suppliers should provide employees at the suppliers expense with all necessary H&S equipment, eg gloves, masks, helmets Key components of the Guide include: Working conditions should be comfortable and hygienic, The employer is chosen employees should have regular breaks and have access to water Suppliers should not use forced, bonded or nonvoluntary prison suitable for drinking and washing labour: employees should be free to choose to work for, or leave Suppliers should identify specific hazards, eg substances or the employment of the supplier equipment, and should implement processes to minimise risk Employment relationships We also expect our suppliers to adhere to the UN Guiding Principles Suppliers should establish recognised employment relationships on Business and Human Rights and the Core Conventions of the with their employees that are in accordance with national law and International Labour Organisation and we will not countenance the good practice use of child labour in our supply chain.
Suppliers employees should be provided with an easy to read In addition to requiring our suppliers to demonstrate high standards contract of employment with clarity in relation to wage levels in their employment practices, we expect our suppliers to take steps Suppliers' treatment of employees to mitigate their environmental impacts, reject bribery and corruption, Under no circumstances should suppliers abuse or intimidate maintain product quality and source responsibly.
employees Prequalification questionnaires, annual supplier reviews and onsite Suppliers should have a grievance appeal procedure that is clear visits allow us to assess and monitor suppliers performance against and easy to understand our required standards.
If suppliers are found to fall short of our standards we try to work with them to implement better practices: Discrimination if they are unwilling, or fail, to improve, we seek to source from an Suppliers should have a policy of equality for all in the workplace alternative supplier.
with no discrimination on the basis of race, caste, religion, nationality, age, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, During 2014, we established a new Supplier Code that builds upon union membership or political affiliation the key components of the Guide and outlines a more extensive set the nonnegotiable minimum standards that we expect our suppliers Law to adhere to.
The new Supplier Code will be rolled out across the Suppliers should always work within the laws of their country Group during 2015.
For more information see page 69.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering is a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK Index FTSE Group confirms that SpiraxSarco Engineering plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practices.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 4.
