Corporate Sustainable Responsibility Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer Computacenter understands that the services an annual basis ever since that time.
that it provides to its customers, and therefore The Group believes that the UNGC provides the value that it can deliver to its shareholders, it with an appropriate framework through require vital contributions from a wide range which to measure its development and of stakeholders, including its employees, progress in this area.
We strive to incorporate contractors, suppliers and business partners.
the UNGC and its principles into our strategy, The societies and communities which provide culture and day-to-day operations, through and support these individuals and the development, communication and organisations therefore themselves make an implementation of relevant policies throughout indirect, but important contribution, towards the organisation.
Indeed, following the the Groups success, and it is important that establishment of our commitment to the Computacenter gives something back to these Principles, we have adopted and revised societies and communities where it can.
a number of our existing policies and Additionally, it is increasingly the case that our procedures across the Group, and will existing and prospective customers view continue to do so on an ongoing basis.
activity in this area as one of the determinant factors in who they want to do business with.
We actively seek to collaborate with and Therefore, not only is making an appropriate encourage our suppliers and contractors contribution in this area the right thing to do to operate in a similar socially responsible for the wider community, it is the right thing manner.
This is reviewed by the Group to do for our business.
through the completion and ongoing review of relevant third party documentation.
Since 2007, the Group has based its approach The Group makes additional enquiries to to Corporate Sustainable Responsibility on ensure that the commitments we receive the 10 core principles the Principles of from our suppliers are fulfilled.
the United Nations Global Compact UNGC, which are outlined opposite.
This includes setting objectives and behaving in a manner which is consistent with these Principles when dealing with its own workforce and in its business interaction with each community Mike Norris in each country within which it operates.
Chief Executive Officer In 2009, the Group published its first 11 March 2015 Communication on Progress on the UNGC website, and we have continued to do so on 42 Corporate Sustainable Responsibility Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 UNGC 10 Core Principles Category Principles Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights: and Principle 2 ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour: Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour: and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges: and Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility: and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
Update on progress against and Environmental Management system CO percentage of total emissions 2 the Principles ISO 9001:2000 and 14001:2005 in our by country % A summary of the action undertaken by the German business.
Group against each of these objectives, and the objectives it has set for itself in 2015 Health & safety can be found on its website at: It is the Companys policy that, as far as is www.
reasonably practicable, a working environment is created and maintained which does not Other Corporate Sustainable pose undue risk to the health & safety of Responsibility Activity our employees, customers, suppliers, sub-contractors, visitors and members of The environment the public.
Our approach to health & safety Computacenter is committed to continuously is also based on the identification and control improving the environmental impact of its of hazards.
The prevention of all incidents, business activities.
We comply fully with particularly those involving personal injury and Belgium 0.6% all relevant environmental legislation and damage to equipment or property, is recognised France 2.8% regulation of the jurisdictions in which we as being essential to avoid similar occurrences Germany 28.7% operate, and monitor the environmental and the efficient operation of the business.
Hungary 8.0% impact of our business.
We aim to reuse, A fundamental part of our preventative approach Luxembourg 0.1% recycle and reduce waste wherever possible, is the completion of thorough near-miss Malaysia 0.3% actively prevent pollution and have an investigations, the recommendations from South Africa 2.6% emergency response capability to cope with which are implemented and then monitored Spain 1.4% any accidental pollution incidents.
We train as deemed appropriate.
Switzerland 0.4% and communicate with our employees to UK 55.0% improve their awareness of environmental All of our employees are made aware matters as part of our established of the importance of health & safety and Environmental Management system.
contribute to the maintenance of a safe working environment.
We promote consultation We continue to monitor our carbon dioxide between employees and managers concerning emissions across the Group, which are set out matters of health & safety and provide the by country and area of business in this report.
necessary finance, equipment, personnel As part of investing in more energy efficient and time to ensure its implementation and Computacenter technology, we have purchased and installed maintenance.
The reporting period saw an equipment to assist in reducing our Carbon acceptable health & safety performance, is committed Footprint.
As a result, we are pleased to report driven by an established health & safety a 0.7 per cent reduction in our greenhouse system, during which we have kept the to continuously gas emissions in 2014 against prior year Accident Incident Rate AIR, i. e. the number comparative levels, notwithstanding the of accidents per 1,000 employees, across our improving the continued expansion of our global activities, main operating geographies to less than 2.5, and an increase in our Group revenues during and the Accident Frequency Rate AFR, environmental the reporting period.
i. e. the number of accidents per 100,000 working hours to below 1.2.
In 2015, we We continue to hold an ISO 14001:2004 will be attempting to reduce the AFR to impact of Certificate in the UK, and have during the below 1.0 in the UK, Germany and France.
reporting period achieved this certification its business in France for the first time.
2014 saw the successful recertification of the quality activities.
43 Computacenter plc mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting Computacenter plc mandatory Recent UK-based emission reduction greenhouse gas emissions reporting Methodology projects include: Global GHG emissions data for period We have used the main requirements Installation of 4 Voltage Optimisation 1 January to 31 December 2014 of the GHG Protocol Corporate Units saving 7 to 10 per cent of Accounting and Reporting Standard electricity usage per year.
Emissions Metric Tonnes of CO e revised edition.
2 4.5 million of renewable electricity has Year 2013 2014 Emission factors used are from the UK been purchased for the UK sufficient for Governments Conversion Factors two years usage for period 2013 14.
Scope 2 24,949 22,856 Continued investments in new Total 28,239 28,047 Based on input from external technology helping reduce emissions consultants, our methodology was in datacenters.
The electricity used in developed to capture additional the datacenters is 45 per cent of the Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and emissions, such as refrigerants.
These datacenters refrigerants usage host customers IT in the form of This activity has been conducted servers thus reducing their carbon Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam as part of our UK Environment footprint however, this increases the and cooling purchased for own use Management System registered emissions for Computacenter as we to ISO 14001:2004 EMS 71255. become the landlords.
Companys chosen intensity measurements: Group properties included in this report Investment was also made in the Emissions as reported above, are all current locations in the UK, replacement of nine more efficient 9.02 per million value of Group Germany, France, Belgium, Spain, gas boiler systems located at the revenue: 2013: 9.19 per million South Africa, Luxembourg, Switzerland UK Hatfield and London offices.
During Q4 2014 the UK warehouse Emissions as reported above 2.05 per We have reported on all of the emission lighting was replaced with more energy Group employee: 2013: 2.22 per Group sources required under the Companies efficient LED devices.
Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We can report a reduction of 0.7 per cent in emissions against the Limitations to data collection comparative performance in 2013.
Less than 5 per cent of emissions This is a positive achievement when were estimated or based on an average considered against the continued energy usage per square foot of expansion of activities of the Group.
Scope 1 2 3 This data is available for the UK and is reported annually in the Carbon Discloser Project reports for both Investor and Supply Chain requirements.
Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC The UK continues to fully comply with this scheme, registered as a participant.
CRC8804716 Packaging Waste Regulation Via the compliance company Paperpak the UK are registered as a distributor of product ensuring full compliance since 2000.
ISO 14001:2004 EMS 71255 The EMS of the UK has been registered to this standard since 2003.
AIR and AFR results for 2014 developed and used to train all new CO Source of emissions from 2 employees in environmental, health & safety, across the business % Average Results for 2014 AIR AFR and sustainable development requirements of the Group.
UK 0.59 0.33 Germany 2.02 1.16 Recognition and development France 1.06 0.59 Our people, like our tools and services, are an important asset and a major source of competitive advantage for us.
Therefore, Additional Group health & safety we are continually searching for new talent, activity in 2014 and for the most effective way to develop In the UK, an internet-based training and risk our existing employees.
assessment programme was used to deliver targeted training in the area of health & safety.
As a recognised Investors in People employer As a result, 2,977 employees completed some we play an important role in developing our form of health & safety training during the Datacenter 55% people.
Computacenter is committed to period, and we anticipate similar levels of Facilities 45% providing a working environment that enables activity in 2015.
In addition, 57 Project it to attract, inspire and retain the right people Managers have gained an IOSH certification to work at every level.
The Company wants so that they can assist in the delivery of health to create a working environment in which all & safety requirements for certain projects employees can fulfil their potential.
We are undertaken by the business.
Further courses proud of the fact that our people are at the will be held in 2015 to increase this number heart of what we do, and we believe we are further.
In France, an online e-book was 44 Corporate Sustainable Responsibility continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our CSR approach for 2015 The Group will continue to base its approach in this area on the UNGC 10 core principles.
In line with our Group Operating Model, we will look to harmonise our additional CSR aspirations and targets across the Group.
We will continue to focus on lowering the environmental impact of our business activities, and providing our employees with a supportive environment within which to work.
We will continue to contribute appropriately to the communities which provide and support our people, and additionally to external causes chosen by our employees.
The charitable trek to Machu Picchu in Peru which took place in October 2014.
Great country, great colleagues and all for a great cause.
The UNGC continues to be an David R Patrick, Service Manager appropriate tool and framework to guide us towards the achievement of our CSR aspirations, and accordingly we will remain committed to it in 2015. an organisation with a winning culture that Engaging with our local community embraces continuous development.
We are fully Amongst other activities, we continue to work committed to investing the time and resource with local colleges assisting young peoples to provide development and talent frameworks understanding of how IT can assist any which support, engage and motivate our organisation, the services offered by an IT managers and employees.
Our employees services company and explaining what skills are able to access a wide range of development employers look for in those leaving education Simon Pereira tools or job-specific training appropriate to their and looking for their first role.
Company Secretary needs as identified by their manager through 11 March 2015 the annual performance and development Charitable giving review process.
In the UK we aim to raise money for our three Charity Partners, as nominated by Equality and diversity Computacenter UK employees.
During the Full and fair consideration is given to reporting period, this raised over 145,190 opportunities for employment, training, for Prostate Cancer UK, the Alzheimers career progression and promotion on the Society and the Teenage Cancer Trust.
This basis of each individuals ability, attitude amount has been matched by the Group.
and track record, irrespective of their gender, Additionally, a number of charitable events ethnic origin, nationality, age, religion, sexual are held throughout the year, which included orientation or disability.
We recognise the a team of 15 employees raising over 2,000 benefits that diverse skills, experience and each by taking part in a sponsored 10-day points of view can bring to the Group and trek in Peru.
understand that there are times when our employees may need to change their hours In France, we have maintained our and work pattern.
We have a Flexible Working partnership with Aide et Action to support Policy because we know that allows us to schooling for children worldwide who are support our employees, which is beneficial forced to work due to their circumstances.
for both the employee and the Group.
Our German business has also undertaken several charitable events during 2014.
These Employee engagement, events not only raise money for our chosen communication and representation charities, but enable our employees to make In September 2014, we ran our first a contribution towards the communities and Group employee survey, which included societies that supports them.
approximately 13,400 employees across the organisation.
This Group survey, which had Anti-bribery and corruption previously been carried out separately and Following an external assessment of included different content for each of our the Groups anti-bribery and corruption operating geographies, will now be carried out procedures in 2013, additional procedures on a bi-annual basis.
In 2014, regular elections have been implemented across the Group of new works councils to represent German during the course of 2014.
An audit of employees for the next four years took place compliance with these updated procedures in all of the Groups German entities.
will take place across the Group during the course of 2015 and 2016.
