Strategic report Corporate responsibility compliance with local laws and regulations The Boards aim is to invest Bribery Act may not be enough to meet global responsibly.
The Board is The Company has its own anti-bribery policy expectations, deliver value and enhance and is fully compliant with the provisions of the responsible for the definition and reputation and licence to operate: and UK Bribery Act.
implementation of the Companys it is vital that the Investment Adviser seeks to identify all material environmental, corporate responsibility policy, Environment socialand governance ESG risks and however in practice it relies As an investment company with no employees, opportunities through its due diligence and governed by a non-executive Board of heavily on the relevant policies effectively manage them during the period Directors, 3i Infrastructure has no material of investment.
and procedures put in place direct impact on the environment.
Its carbon The Investment Advisers RI policy makes clear emissions are negligible, and limited to Board by 3i Group that apply to the that it aims to use its influence to promote members flights to and from Jersey to attend Investment Adviser and, acommitment in portfolio companies to: Board meetings.
comply, as a minimum, with applicable Procurement For more information on 3i Groups corporate localand international laws: responsibility policies, please refer to its 3i Infrastructure has developed policies and mitigate adverse environmental and social website: www.
com  procedures in relation to services received impacts and enhance positive effects on from third-party providers.
As far as possible, The Board believes that these policies meet theenvironment, workers and relevant the Company will work only with suppliers the Companys objectives in this area.
stakeholders: and whosupport its aim to source products and services responsibly.
3i Infrastructure aims uphold high standards of business integrity Responsible Investment policy tohave a collaborative relationship with its and good corporate governance.
3i Group is a signatory to the UN Principles for service providers and, wherever possible, The main features of the policy include: Responsible Investing RI and has embedded willwork with them when problems or issues RI policies in its investment and asset arise to help them meet its requirements.
clear statements of the commitment to management processes.
mitigate adverse environmental and social Prompt Payment Code impacts and uphold high standards of The Investment Advisers philosophy on RI can business integrity and good corporate be summarised as follows: 3i Group performs most payment and treasury governance: functions for the Company.
During the year, the effective assessment and management itbecame a signatory of the Prompt Payment an exclusion list of businesses and activities of environmental, social, business integrity Code.
The Code encourages and promotes in which investment is precluded: and corporate governance matters best practice between organisations and their hasapositive effect on the value a referral list of businesses and activities suppliers.
Signatories to the Code commit to ofportfoliocompanies, and hence which may be particularly sensitive and paying their suppliers within clearly defined on3iInfrastructure itself: mayrequire additional scrutiny: and terms, and to ensuring there is a proper process for dealing with any issues that a set of minimum ESG standards that mayarise.
portfolio companies should meet, eitheratthe time of investment or withinareasonable period thereafter.
This Strategic report is approved by order of the Board Authorised signatory Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited Company Secretary 8 May 2014 32 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Review of investments Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 33
