Our people We are committed to recruiting and retaining talented and motivated individuals who put clients at the heart of our business.
Culture Our culture is important to us and we aim to ensure that our staff move into key leadership roles.
We launched our senior leadership preserve the fundamental attributes: putting the client first, focus and emerging talent programmes identifying individuals from on teamwork, long-termism, approachability and simplicity.
across our global offices whom we believe have the potential to fill senior roles in the future.
The senior programme is run by INSEAD, Both appraisals and remuneration are designed to promote the business school.
Our annual appraisal process covers performance, objectives and From the beginning, we have valued a culture of openness, mutual areas for future development.
We updated the process to ensure dependency and collective purpose.
Plenty of companies talk that, on one hand, there is a clearer documented link between about such things: we take pride in doing it.
We organise our objectives setting, performance and remuneration and, strategy fund managers in teams, so every one of them has a voice.
This and culture on the other.
culture applies to all functions and all locations.
We recognise that culture is not stagnant and we look to adapt new ideas and share Professional training is necessary for certain individuals to ensure approaches across the Group.
that they are proficient in the skills required for their jobs.
Those wishing to pursue a career in fund management are required SWIP to complete relevant examinations.
There are opportunities for We increased our headcount by around 500 with the SWIP others to complete relevant industry qualifications.
As in past acquisitions, we welcome the new ideas Succession and approaches that the people from SWIP bring.
"Many of the existing Aberdeen leadership joined through acquisitions Succession plans are in place for all roles across the Group from which have proven to be an important way to strengthen our the Board, the Group management board ""GMB"" to regional, management teams."
Plans are formally reviewed and updated annually.
Recruitment and selection Equality and diversity Recruitment, development and retention of talent is key to our ability to perform well for our customers and, as a consequence, As a global organisation with customers spanning a multitude of our shareholders.
countries, cultures and professions, we view diversity as a valuable business asset.
We strive to be an employer of choice in all of the Our strategy is to recruit, wherever possible, at graduate level, countries in which we operate and to provide an environment in placing an emphasis on succession planning and developing our which everyone is treated equally.
We continue to grow our apprenticeship and intern programmes.
We also encourage moves within the business, Details of the Groups equal opportunities policy are available preferring to use our existing talent pool to fill available posts.
on our website and this policy is supplemented by specific policies that reflect local employment legislation and expectations.
We believe that this approach creates loyalty in the organisation and that the combination of experienced hands and younger We are committed to creating an inclusive environment in which minds invigorates our thinking and can lead to better performance.
all employees have the opportunity to develop.
This year we hired 110 interns, 31 graduates, 5 apprentices We have a prominent voice supporting female representation and 5 individuals on the Investment 2020 scheme investment in boardrooms and support gender equality.
Our Backroom to management trainee scheme.
We have recruited 198 graduates Boardroom initiative is a forum to bring together senior women, globally between 1994 and 2014. executives and non-executive directors.
We support many other initiatives, including Women on Boards UK, the Woman's Business Competitive compensation Forum and Asian Women of Achievement awards.
Rewarding employees for their contribution is key to recruiting and We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact.
Our operations retaining a talented workforce.
More information is given in the and policies support and reflect the ten Global Compact principles remuneration report starting on page 66. and we uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in all our operations.
In countries where an employee delegate or works Learning, development and talent management council is not present, employees are encouraged to share their We continue to improve our training and development for senior opinions with line managers or human resources representatives.
managers with the goal of building a pool of individuals ready to 22 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Breakdown of staff by gender: We strongly believe Total workforce 2,700 that the combination Male 55% 1,482 in total Female 45% 1,218 in total of experienced hands Senior managers and younger minds Male 70% 71 in total Female 30% 30 in total invigorates our Group management board thinking and can lead Male 84% 16 in total Female 16% 3 in total Board of Directors to better performance.
Male 77% 10 in total Female 23% 3 in total Innovation committee The Group established the Innovation committee in 2014 to encourage members of staff to share their ideas of where the Group can grow and provide input to the existing corporate culture within the Group.
The Group is keen to continue planning for the longer term through the use of technology and the ideas and inspirations of its younger employees.
Julie Chakraverty, an independent nonexecutive director, chairs the committee and is joined by Andrew Laing, our Deputy Chief Executive, Kerry Christie, our Global Head of Human Resources, and a further nine colleagues, principally from the staff on our emerging talent programme.
Operating under defined terms of reference, the committee has the following principal responsibilities: Agree what aspects of innovation are important for Aberdeen: Encourage staff to offer their 'blue sky thinking': Focus on exploring and prioritising new ideas.
Since its inception, the committee members have been allocated work streams in order to identify where we are currently innovative and where there needs to be improvements: what Aberdeen could look like in five and ten years time and where innovation should be prioritised to have the greatest impact: where IT is an enabler or a barrier and: where there are innovation threats and opportunities impacting the wider financial sector.
The committee meets regularly and developments will be updated on the Group website.
The Board has agreed that the innovation committee will become a formal committee of the Board from 1 December 2014. aberdeen-asset.
