Corporate responsibility The requirement to demonstrate we act responsibly has never been greater and we are very aware of this.
We aim to show we act in the best interests of our shareholders, clients, employees and wider stakeholders and that we build value for these groups, for the longer term.
This year, we achieved a number of notable developments in Responsible investment our approach to corporate responsibility and worked to embed In terms of our investments, we have further developed the way this more deeply across all functions of the business.
"We have we integrate material environmental, social and governance engaged employees throughout the Group and up to Board ""ESG"" considerations in our investment processes."
"While our level and worked with external organisations including the UN approach differs by asset class, assessing investments from an Global Compact, Principles for Responsible Investment ""PRI"" ESG perspective is a crucial element of our long term view and we and Business in the Community to improve the way in which we are seeing an ever increasing interest in our responsible investing operate as a responsible business."
capabilities from clients and our wider stakeholders.
We take a risk based approach and analyse each investment on an individual basis.
Corporate responsibility is managed by the corporate responsibility steering committee which is chaired by the Deputy More information regarding how we have integrated the Chief Executive, Andrew Laing, who in turn is responsible for consideration of ESG factors in equities, property, fixed income reporting to the Board on developments, risks and opportunities and Aberdeen solutions can be found in our annual corporate in this area.
Our key risks continue to be those of our people, our responsibility report and our annual equity engagement report.
investments and our wider stakeholders.
Engaging with stakeholders Further details of the material corporate responsibility issues faced We recognise our responsibility to engage with governments, by the Group and the steps taken to manage these are contained regulators and trade bodies, helping to shape a policy environment in the annual corporate responsibility report which is available on which operates in the best long term interests of our clients, the Group website.
who invest with us, and our shareholders, as well as for the wider financial sector.
We believe this relationship is mutually beneficial Corporate culture as we have the opportunity to help shape the regulatory and Led by the Board, we have started to critically analyse our political landscape in which we work and the regulatory bodies corporate culture.
We want to preserve the fundamental are able to understand what it is like to operate in the policy attributes of our culture predominantly our focus on teamwork, environment they create.
This year, we have been actively involved long-termism, openness and simplicity but we recognise that, with a number of industry organisations including, most recently, as the business grows, our culture has to be actively articulated, the Investor Forum, a new body which aims to promote long shared, managed and monitored across our global offices.
term investment approaches and create an effective model for One element of this relates to our people practices, and this collective engagement with UK companies.
year we have enhanced our appraisal system so it is now more Our suppliers are also critical to our ability to operate effectively focused on, and aligned with, the strategic objectives of the and our largest risk is posed by a small number of strategic Group.
We have also worked to further align remuneration with service providers.
To manage this risk, we have an outsourcing performance across a spectrum of metrics, looking at not just risk oversight framework which is applied to all outsourcing what was delivered but how it was delivered in line with our relationships and sets out clearly defined roles, responsibilities and corporate values.
standards for all employees across the Group.
Our employee training and development programmes have been At a more local level, in 2014 we became one of only a small enhanced too and we have undertaken further Board training on number of companies in the City of London and in the UK finance our material corporate responsibility issues.
sector, to become an accredited Living Wage employer, whereby we pay all employees and contractors at least the Living Wage.
We believe this was an important step, as without a strong support network of contracted staff who help to keep all our facilities running, we cannot operate at our best.
48 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance Aberdeen Charitable Foundation to support Wharton and the local school teachers and then marks This year the Aberdeen Charitable Foundation has grown the student teams on their investment approach, emphasising the significantly, with all our offices now involved in charitable importance of long termism which is a fundamental dimension of giving and providing volunteering support to a range of great our own investment philosophy.
Financial literacy is a theme we causes.
In 2014, over 40% of employees globally voted to select are keen to pursue globally.
our new emerging markets partner.
Following the launch of long term partnerships in South America ABC Trust and Asia SeeBeyondBorders, this year we short-listed charities with 1.6m 17% suitable projects in sub-Saharan Africa.
Our new charity partner is AfriKids, a child rights organisation which works in northern Donated to charitable Of our global workforce Ghana to alleviate child poverty and promote economic growth.
1 causes globally in 2014 volunteered The Aberdeen project will deliver a spectrum of educational initiatives to the poorest children living in Bolgatanga in the 2013: 1.3m 2013: 15% Upper East Region of Ghana.
These include night classes for street 1 This includes donations made by the Foundation 0.9m, the Group 0.5m and GAYE employer children, scholarships, a young entrepreneurs project and school contributions 0.2m but excludes unspent contributions made by the Group to the Foundation.
enhancement programmes in order to drive up attainment and Our environmental impact employability across the region.
By far our greatest environmental impact is indirect, through This year, for the first time, we took part in a 24 hour global the investments we hold.
We do, however, work hard to reduce volunteering day challenge to coincide with Give and Gain Day.
our direct impacts, recognising this is not only the right thing to Over 10% of the workforce from 24 cities took part starting the do but also has business benefits which include reducing utility day in Sydney and moving across the globe, finishing in Toronto, costs.
Energy consumption and associated emissions, waste and Philadelphia and So Paulo.
business travel, remain our key areas of focus as reflected by our Support for our local community projects has also grown environmental targets.
Some great new charities have been This year, we achieved all the targets we set for 2014 and are identified but, importantly, relationships have also developed.
on track to achieve our more long term targets.
We achieved a Further information on the projects we have supported can be 6% reduction in carbon emissions intensity, increased recycling found on our website.
One project which has been particularly rates in the UK by 16% and increased usage of our videosuccessful this year is our financial literacy programme in conferencing facilities by 30%.
We also worked with external association with Knowledge@Wharton in Pennsylvania.
stakeholders, including key partners at our flagship sponsorship This project started four years ago with five schools in events, to reduce our indirect environmental impact and promote Philadelphia.
In 2014, 34 schools and a total of 140 teams took environmental awareness.
Aberdeen provides training materials, videos and webcasts Total global emissions for carbon reporting Charitable contributions, m. CO e emissions tonnes 2 Scope Emissions source 2014 2013.
Intensity ratio: Emissions per FTE for 3 Scope 1 and Scope 2 1.72 1.84.
2 As a result of implementing our new environmental management and reporting system, we have identified minor inaccuracies in our data for 2013.
The table above reflects the amended figures.
3 Historically, we have used the year end FTE number to calculate our intensity ratio but due to the significant change in headcount which took place this year, we are now using the average FTE number.
The 2013 intensity ratio has, therefore, also been amended to reflect this change.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition for our methodology and have used operational control as our boundary for reporting.
We have gathered data from invoices on energy consumption, register of refrigerants and service logs of owned vehicles.
The UK emissions factors Defra DECC 2014 have been used in all instances where country specific emissions factors are unavailable.
