STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Gerald Corbett, Betfairs Chairman and Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee To read more about Governance see page 36 Introduction: Committed to Corporate Responsibility BETFAIR IS PROUD TO SAY IT Betfair continues to be willing to do things differently for the CONTINUES TO LEAD THE WAY benefit of our customers.
Innovation, transparency and fairness for the customer are the core values that continue to underpin ONCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY the business.
In recent years we have started to focus more on Corporate Responsibility CR and will continue to do so WITHIN THE GAMBLING SECTOR.
WE SEEK TO BE A GOOD There is no one area of CR which is more important than any CORPORATE CITIZEN WHEREVER other.
However, Betfair remains particularly proud of its track record in the areas of integrity and customer protection.
With WE DO BUSINESS AND CONTINUE regard to integrity, in the last year Betfair has been one of the first TO INNOVATE WITHIN KEY operators to sign a permanent Memorandum of Understanding MoU with the International Olympic Committee IOC, as well INDUSTRY AREAS INCLUDING ascontinuing to strengthen its partnerships with the Professional INTEGRITY AND CONSUMER Players Federation PPF and British Athletes Commission BAC.
The past year has also seen pioneering developments in the field PROTECTION.
of consumer protection with new Time Out options added for all products allowing customers to take even greater control of their gambling behaviour.
OUR FOUR CORE VALUES: In this section we set out in full Betfairs ongoing commitment to all areas of CR.
BEING TRUSTED BY OURCUSTOMERS Corporate Responsibility Committee The CR Committee is responsible for ensuring the company fulfils 2.
ACTING WITH INTEGRITY its four core values.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and reviews Betfairs policies and advises the Board on all 3.
ENSURING OUR PEOPLE ARE INSPIRED, aspects of CR, including social, ethical and environmental matters.
ENGAGED AND DEVELOPED Members of the CR Committee include: 4.
TAKING PRIDE IN THE COMMUNITIES Gerald Corbett Chair of Committee from March 2014 Ian Chuter Group Operations Director WHERE WELIVEANDWORK Lisa Hillier Group HR Director Ross Lane Group Financial Controller Fiona Russell Chief Legal Officer.
Fru Hazlitt chaired the Committee until March 2014.
28 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Customer-driven deposit and loss limits 1.
BEING TRUSTED BY OUR CUSTOMERS Customers can limit the amount they can deposit into their Betfair Betfair wants to ensure all customers have an enjoyable and safe account on a daily, weekly or monthly basis, and the amount that gambling experience.
Where this becomes difficult, we seek to do they are able to lose over a given period of a week, month or all we can to help and support.
If a customer chooses to make their deposit or loss limit Betfair has established responsible gambling policies and strategies more restrictive, the settings on their account are changed with to ensure that we listen and respond to customers and help them immediate effect.
If a customer sets a deposit or loss limit which when needed.
isless restrictive than their previous limit, there is a cooling-off Our responsible gambling policy sets out our commitment period of at least seven days before the settings come into effect.
to promote responsible gambling practices.
You can read it Time Out options at http: responsiblegambling.
All customers can Since January 2014 customers have also been able to elect to use click through to this site directly from every page on Betfairs a Time Out option which sees their Betfair accounts closed for a website by clicking the link Responsible Gambling.
period of their choosing 24 hours, 48 hours, 7 days or 30 days Betfair seeks to go above and beyond licensing conditions and which allows them to take a short-term break from gambling operate innovative, industry leading best practice.
We offer our with Betfair.
customers the following methods to help them control their Self-exclusion options gambling activity: Customers who elect to self-exclude will have their Betfair Game session timers accounts closed for a minimum of six months from the date Betfair allows customers to limit their session times for games ofself-exclusion.
After this date, the customer can apply by orevents that have no natural end, giving customers greater emailor letter to have their account re-opened with a deposit control over their gambling.
On Betfairs games, session timer limitcompulsorily applied.
Each application is considered on technology gives customers an on-screen reminder 60 minutes anindividual basis by our dedicated Responsible Gambling team.
ora shorter period if selected after the customers have placed Customers are always free to choose that their Betfair account their first bet, and will give the option to continue playing or to beclosed permanently.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201429 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Preventing under-18s and the vulnerable from gambling CHILD PROTECTION: Betfair is particularly concerned about preventing under-18s and vulnerable groups from gambling.
In accordance with the law, children are prohibited from betting on the Betfair site.
Betfair has a strict underage policy and a rigorously applied age verification process.
Betfairs specialist Verification Team has developed a number of Know-Your-Customer checks in order to age verify A SPECIALIST customers and prevent under-18s from betting on the site.
VERIFICA A SPECIA TIONLI TE STAM IS 18 ?
We are registered as a gambling content site with the Internet VERIFICATION TEAM IS RESPONSIBLE FOR 18 ?
RESPONSIBLE FOR IDENTIFYING AND AGE Content Rating Association ICRA, part of the Family Online IDENTIFYING AND AGE VERIFYING EVERY Safety Institute, which provides general information and advice VERIFYING EVERY BETFAIR CUSTOMER about internet safety.
We also encourage customers to use BETFAIR CUSTOMER parental filtering solutions.
Responsible advertising Given our focus on the protection of minors and vulnerable people we endeavour not to direct our advertising at these two groups.
Our TOOLS FOR RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING: advertising and marketing comply with UK Committee of Advertising Codes CAP Codes: www.
aspx which seek to ensure that advertising and sales promotion activities do not give gamblers misleading information, such DEPOSIT LIMIT as a false impression of the odds on winning.
DEPOSIT LIMIT Self-help and awareness information to help prevent problem gambling SELF-EXCLUSION Early identification of a problem can help combat its development SELF-EXCLUSION into something more serious.
By clicking on the link entitled Responsible Gambling, customers are linked through to information to make them aware of the relevant issues.
If a customer identifies TIME OUT AND SESSION TIMERS that they may have a problem by answering a series of questions, TIME OUT AND SESSION TIMERS they are advised to use Betfairs tools to limit their behaviour and seek help and support.
LOSS LIMIT Details of professional organisations that can help LOSS LIMIT Betfair also provides information on its website on organisations that can help people work through their concerns, including the National Problem Gambling Clinic, GamCare, Gambling Therapy and Gamblers Anonymous.
Funding the research, education and treatment of problem gambling BUILDING ON OUR RELATIONSHIP In the UK Betfair makes annual voluntary contributions to the WITH BRITISH RACING Responsible Gambling Trust.
Since April 2009, the gambling industry has voluntarily contributed over 24 million.
Major operators, like Betfair, donate on the understanding that a minimum target, currently set at 6 million, will be reached each year.
Responsible gambling training for employees All Betfair employees receive responsible gambling awareness training within their first three months of employment, and this training is refreshed annually.
Customer facing employees receive additional in-depth training which is refreshed regularly.
Training includes identifying the triggers and causes of problem gambling: the risks specific to remote gambling: knowledge of available support agencies: self-exclusion and other player protection functionalities: and policies, processes and regulatory requirements.
30 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 As part of our partnership with the BAC Betfair has co-authored 2.
ACTING WITH INTEGRITY a guide on the rules to betting for all Olympic and World Class Safeguarding the integrity of sport Athletes.
Given the wide variety of sports covered, some of which Information sharing agreements with sports do not have specific rules on betting, this straightforward guide We are committed to assisting sports governing bodies SGBs aims to increase awareness of the issues and provide some basic inhelping to maintain the integrity within their sports.
The guide is available on the BACs website at hasalways been on the front foot in sharing information with www.
We have a team of dedicated experts making use of cutting edge technological capabilities to ensure that Betfair Continuing a pioneering partnership with British Racing remains a recognised leader in integrity.
Betfairs relationship with British Racing continues to grow stronger, underpinned by the unique five-year commercial deal Betfair now has 58 MoUs with SGBs around the world.
Under the terms on the deal Betfair has now Betfair signed a permanent MoU with the IOC, as well as the made direct payments of over 16 million to British Racing.
Spanish Football League La Liga Nacional fide Futbol Profesional LFP, the Scottish Football Association and the International Betfairs commitment to British Racing extends beyond direct Association of Athletics Federations IAAF covering the 2013 payments under the terms of the deal.
Over the past year Betfair World Championships.
MoUs allow Betfairs Integrity Team to has invested a significant six-figure sum supporting a wide range of share any relevant customer and transactional data, at an account organisations, charities and initiatives including but not limited to : level, with SGBs if a betting integrity related issue is detected.
continuing as Racing Welfares biggest corporate sponsor and Educational partnerships with sports supporter of the fifth Pride of Racing Awards at Haydock Park Betfair continues to strengthen its educational partnerships with in September 2013: the PPF and the BAC.
supporting the Injured Jockeys Fund and sponsoring the Betfair Wing at Oaksey House in Lambourn: In July 2013 Betfair committed to extending its partnership with funding 50% of the jockeys doctor, Anna Louise Mackinnon, the PPF for a further three years.
This was announced in the in partnership with the Professional Jockeys Association: House of Commons by the Sports Minister Hugh Robertson MP, sponsoring the Animal Health Trusts annual raceday at who praised the partnership and highlighted the common interests Newmarket in June 2013: between sports and betting operators in this important area.
The sponsoring the World Horse Welfares Annual Conference funding will ensure ongoing education on sports betting integrity for the third year running: for at least 7,500 sports men and women in the UK.
sponsoring the Betfair Scottish Flat Racing Series 2013: sponsoring the Betfair Novice Flat Amateur Series 2013: and being title sponsor of Open Days at Lambourn, Newmarket, Middleham and Malton.
BUILDING ON OUR RELATIONSHIP WORKING WITH THE IOC BEYOND WITH BRITISH RACING LONDON 2012 INVESTING IN BRITISH RACING PERMANENT MOU WITH THE INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC Betfair has continued to build on its relationship with British COMMITTEE IOC Racing since being the first ever betting operator to establish In December 2013 Betfair was one of the first betting operators alandmark five-year commercial agreement in July 2012 worth to sign a permanent MoU with the IOC which enables Betfair at least 40million to the sport.
Under the terms of the deal to share customer information and betting patterns in the rare Betfair has regular meetings with key organisations within event of an integrity issue emerging within a relevant market.
BritishRacing, including the British Horseracing Authority, the This replaces previous MoUs Betfair signed with the IOC to Racecourse Association, the Horsemens Group and Horserace cover each Games since the Beijing Games in 2008.
The deal ensures Betfair is fully integrated permanent MoU Betfair is fully integrated into the IOCs new insupporting British Racing on key issues to help ensure the Integrity Betting Intelligence System IBIS and can share sport is as attractive a betting product as possible and can information with the IOC as and when required during and maintain its share of the betting market.
The MoUs between the IOC and various betting operators The deal has the full support of the British Government.
and regulators, including Betfair, are part of our concerted The five-year commercial deal agreed between strategy to support clean sport and protect major BritishRacing and Betfair was a move welcomed by competitions from any form of manipulation, particularly theGovernment there is a common interest between those linked to betting.
We are very pleased with these racing and the betting industry to make sure the sport agreements, which build on our successful collaboration hasa healthy future and we want to see further such during London 2012. dealsin place.
Mark Adams, IOC Communications Director Rt Hon.
Hugh Robertson MP Then Minister for Sport, in July 2013 on the one-year anniversary of the deal B Be etf tfa ai ir G r Gr ro ou up p p pl lc cA An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 31 31 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED 3.
ENSURING OUR PEOPLE ARE INSPIRED, ENGAGED AND DEVELOPED Human rights Communicating with employees Betfair is committed to the human rights of all its employees and We employ 1,800 employees globally, with major sites in the UK, the communities in which we operate.
Our operations are entirely Ireland, Malta, Gibraltar, Romania, Portugal and the US.
We in developed countries and we comply fully with all appropriate embrace cultural diversity across the organisation: we value and legislation in these countries.
The Board does not consider that itis respect local practices across all of our locations whilst maintaining necessary to develop a specific policy in relation to human rights.
a consistent company culture which aligns us all to our core values Equal opportunities and our relentless appetite to attract, grow, develop, retain and While our industry continues to be male dominated, this year has reward our key talent.
seen two women being appointed to the Executive Committee.
Performance management, reward and engagement We continue to work hard to attract and retain a diverse, inclusive We have continued to drive reward being based on a meritocratic and representative workforce where everyone is treated with basis for FY14.
Bonuses are an incentive to drive high performance dignity and respect.
The following table is a breakdown by and business delivery within Betfair.
During FY14, we launched a genderof our Board, senior managers and all employees as new approach to performance management measuring individual at30April 2014. performance every 90 days, providing greater alignment to our business performance which is also measured on a quarterly basis and increased transparency for individuals in terms of progress against objectives, achievement and priorities going forward.
We also value non-financial incentives: we care what our employees think and ask them for their opinion through engagement surveys.
As advocates of enhanced performance through employee engagement we believe that there are a number of factors which DIVERSITY drive higher engagement and performance, which in turn makes the organisation more effective.
One of these factors is that Board people want to see meaning in their work, not only in terms Female 1 Male 7 ofhow they fit into the organisation but also in terms of the 12.5% of total organisations wider purpose and our corporate social responsibilityagenda.
1 Directors of subsidiary companies Employee welfare Female 5 Male 25 We have adopted a number of policies relating to CR on aspects 16.6% of total of people management.
1 We are focused on ensuring our HR policies and practices have Senior managers aclear ethical component and are effectively and fairly applied, Female 2 Male 4 and that Betfair is an employer of choice for our existing and 33.3% of total potential employees.
We offer a variety of employee benefits to enhance the wellbeing All employees of our employees, which include a core package incorporating Female 391 Male 1,442 private medical insurance, life assurance, income protection and 21.3% of total critical illness insurance and a voluntary benefits package offering 1 achoice of benefits including health assessments, a health cash Senior managers as defined in legislation includes persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Company or a plan, dental insurance and discounted gym membership.
strategically significant part of the Company and any other Directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
However, the Board We operate a Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option scheme, considers that this definition does not reflect the way that Betfair operates, which encourages employees participation in Betfairs performance and so has also presented a more appropriate measure, comprising the and alignment with shareholder values.
An offer was made to members of the Executive Committee excluding Executive Directors.
employees during FY14 and further details of this are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 55 and in note 20 tothe Financial Statements.
During the year, regulations came into force requiring employers to automatically enrol certain employees based on certain income and age levels into a workplace pension scheme with contributions that meet new standards.
At Betfair, we believe that all UK employees should be eligible to receive an employer pension contribution and save for their retirement, so our policy is to enrolall UK employees into the Betfair Group Pension scheme irrespective of their earnings or age.
32 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Health and safety 4.
TAKING PRIDE IN THE COMMUNITIES Alongside our commitment to providing a vibrant working WHERE WE LIVE AND WORK environment that values wellbeing and diversity, we recognise our Engagement with local communities and charities wider legal and moral obligation to provide a safe and healthy Betfair believes in being a good corporate citizen.
We seek to working environment for our people, visitors and members of the support and be part of the local community wherever we have public who may be affected by our activities.
We also support community working offering every underpins our approach to health and safety H&S, with Board employee up to two days paid leave per year for volunteer work level responsibility being apportioned to the Director of Operations, and we offer employees the opportunity to make charitable supported by specialist technical advisers in safety and donations direct from their salary through payroll.
occupational health, employed across all our global locations.
As part of this commitment each of our offices around the Our operations are fully compliant with all aspects of the current worldmakes a CR investment with employees actively engaged H&S law, codes of practice and approved industry standards.
indeciding what organisations and charities Betfair should support OurH&S policy statement, management system, practices and at each location.
procedures reflect Betfairs commitment to managing health, Case studies: safety and welfare across our international portfolio through selected senior representatives and H&S professionals who form Maggies Cancer Care Centre is located at Charing Cross the National Health and Safety Forum.
In addition, all of our Hospital only a few hundred metres from Betfairs facilities managers have Institution of Occupational Safety and Hammersmith HQ.
It offers emotional, practical and social Health IOSH accreditation and two employees are accredited support for those suffering from cancer and relies entirely on atNational Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health donations.
In FY14 Betfair made a financial donation and a NEBOSH level.
group of employees also volunteered to help tidy up the grounds and keep the centre looking its best.
Betfair provides an occupational health helpline through the Square Chapel Trust, a thriving arts centre for the local Employee Assistance Programme EAP, providing independent community, is supported by Betfairs Halifax office which and confidential support for all employees.
EAP is an expert continued to be a Corporate Friend.
provider of employee support services and is completely Inspire Foundation provides a range of services to people with independent from the Company.
The EAP is designed to help disabilities, championing their equal inclusion in society.
Betfairs employees in times of need, whether due to stress, anxiety, office in Malta supported Inspire with a financial donation and managing money, relationships or work.
by providing staff volunteers to assist with cleaning up the We regularly review and audit the quality and effectiveness of Foundations Animal Park following an incident of vandalism.
ourrisk assessment and incident investigation processes and the Christmas Shoebox Appeal is one of the charities that completeness of our H&S management system.
In addition we employees in Betfairs Cluj office in Romania choose to support.
continue to develop our procedures for measuring and supporting SportsAid is a charity that Betfair has supported for a number a proactive approach to meeting our commitments to the safety of years.
For the last two years Betfair staff have used their and wellbeing of all our people, clients and suppliers.
volunteering days to shoot, produce and edit the films for their most prestigious award, The One to Watch which is presented Health and safety activity at their annual SportsBall for the most up and coming young During FY14, priority was focused on fully implementing the athlete.
revised H&S management system at Betfair.
In doing so Betfair carried out the following actions: More information in relation to Betfairs charitable activities can H&S management system implemented at all European befound on our website.
locations: Supporting grassroots sport: Cash4Clubs roles and responsibilities updated and formal appointments Sport in its numerous different forms is an exciting part of so made at all levels: many of our lives and an important leisure pastime for individuals practices and procedures, including all risk assessment activities, and communities.
Recognising the importance of sport, we set up carried out in line with current legislation and good practice: Cash4Clubs in 2008 in partnership with SportsAid to offer sports chaired by the Executive representative, regular meetings of clubs in the UK the chance to be awarded grants ranging from theNational H&S Forum: and 250 to 1,000.
To date in the UK we have supported 327 clubs H&S training provided to all relevant people.
Cash4Clubs continues to have a real impact on local communities.
It is a statutory requirement to keep a record of all accidents, incidents and near misses that occur at work.
There were no RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 reportable fatalities ormajor injuries across our business.
A health, safety and environment inspection visit in the UK resulted in no enforcement notices or prosecutions for health, safety or environmental offences.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201433 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS WASTE KPIs Betfair is committed to continuous Betfair aims for 100% waste recycling, improvement in reducing our carbon with no waste going to landfill, including: footprint through developing and all offices, as a minimum, separate waste at source: implementing initiatives, practices mixed waste is sorted and recycled, wet waste is composted, glass is sorted and recycled, and cooking oil is collected and andprocedures which will enable us recycled, where internal catering facilities are provided: tomanage and control the impact we currently recycle 100% of our waste from our largest ourbusiness has on the environment.
office and HQ in London: and multi-functional secure network printing devices at all Inadopting a continuous improvement locations, reducing paper waste.
methodology we are pleased to reportprogress in all areas of our KPI initiatives, including the following: ENERGY KPIs SUPPLIER KPIs We continue to review our energy use, Betfairs procurement process ensures that and implement new ways to manage our our environmental responsibility is a key consumption, including: factor in any purchasing decisions, including: data collection of environmental indices across all consideration of location of manufacture: Betfair offices: giving preference to items that are manufactured with a high one switch desktop power modules as standard, to recycled content: switch off all power to their desk from a single switch: considering the whole life costs and energy usage when air conditioning settings programmed geographically assessing equipment for purchase: and to match our working patterns: carrying out environmental assessment of suppliers, and capital improvement projects including equipment qualifying favouring suppliers that are committed to environmental for enhanced capital allowances in line with the Carbon improvement.
Trusts energy technology: retiring end of serviceable life equipment allowing for the purchase of modern efficient replacements: and recycling surplus equipment and furniture through sale and reuse.
TRANSPORT AND TRAVEL KPIs CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT KPIs Betfair has a strict travel reduction policy.
Betfair is committed to transferring Our initiatives include: its operations to more energy efficient data centres.
In addition: Cycle to Work scheme, and provision of showers andlockerfacilities for cyclists and runners: a data centre management tool is used to track power global video-conferencing VC facilities and usage and improve planning for the efficient utilisation furtheradaptation of desktop VC options: of the data centre facility: use of public transport in city hubs: an ongoing program of consolidation, including cloud robust travel policy with monitoring and computing solutions, enabling us to switch off older  journeys: and inefficient equipment across the whole estate: monitoring total carbon emissions as a result complying with WRAP UK guidelines when carrying out all fit ofbusinesstravel.
out, dilapidation and construction works and ensuring our contractors work to these same standards: and re-using all redundant furniture through resale, charity orschool donation, or disposing of it responsibly.
34 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Stakeholders Environmental matters As a matter of course, we gauge stakeholder views on Betfair has reviewed and updated our environmental policy to environmental matters and these views are reported to the CR include new mandatory reporting requirements and to renew our Committee.
This process enables us to increase our responsiveness commitment to considering the environment when conducting to matters raised by stakeholders, find new ways to reduce our ourbusiness.
impacts and maximise opportunities, balance business efficiency As a minimum, Betfair meets or exceeds all relevant environmental with economic success and, ultimately, continue to make the legislation.
Where no environmental legislation exists, we will business more competitive, profitable and sustainable.
The develop and implement our own appropriate standards, practices environmental management forum is chaired by the Group and procedures.
Across all business units, we take all reasonable Operations Director, being a member of the CR Committee.
steps to manage our operations, so as to minimise our environmental impact and to deliver excellence in environmental practice across Betfairs greenhouse gas emissions our business.
The mandatory requirement to report our greenhouse gas GHG emissions has supported a greater emphasis on data collection, Respect for the environment is fundamental to assuring a interrogation and comparatives across all offices, helping to further sustainable future.
Betfair recognises that, by managing our day develop best practice across the business.
to day activities efficiently, we can have a positive impact on the We have reported on all of the GHG emission sources required environment.
We aim to minimise harmful effects whenever we under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors can, and will work through a continuous improvement process to Report Regulations 2013.
We have adopted an Operational achieve this.
Control approach to define our organisational boundary for the Betfair assesses its environmental impact as very low.
The reporting of emissions data.
The reported figures therefore exclude business is 100% online with no retail premises and its key servers our joint venture, Betfair Australia, as this is activity not subject to are housed within modern, state of the art data centre facilities.
operational control by the Group.
Our reporting year is the same As a result of our data centre consolidation programme, Betfair as our financial year, being 1 May 2013 to 30 April 2014. has this year decommissioned three large office communications Our emissions data is reported through a system which meets rooms, serving development and corporate systems, which industry standards for data collection.
The methodology used resulted in retiring a number of legacy operations.
isbased on voluntary and mandatory GHG reporting guidance We operate in modern office environments, which have been issued by Defra.
We have also utilised Defras 2013 conversion designed to have minimal impact on the environment.
All our factors within our reporting methodology.
office spaces operate with high densities of occupation in the We have used revenue as our intensity ratio as this provides the workplace and have features such as perimeter infrared motion best comparative measure over time and is the most relevant detector lighting, low energy lighting, energy efficient air indication of our growth.
conditioning systems and power factor correction.
Following the 2013 restructure, Betfair has continued its office consolidation Betfairs total emissions for Scope 1 and Scope 2 reporting were programme and has closed c. 61,000 sq.
ft. 20% of office space 7,494 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e for the period.
Plans for further reduction in the The majority of our emissions are stated within Scope 2, including coming financial year are already under way.
utilities consumption for leased premises and or proportional We operate largely out of leased premises.
Accordingly, we work landlord charges, and contract operations for data centres.
with our landlords to encourage their investment in energy efficient systems, waste recycling and water consumption.
tCO e 2 1 Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions including own fuel combustion and refrigerant losses 135 2 Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions including utilities, gas, heating and electricity purchased for own use 7,359 Total emissions tC0 e 7,494 2 Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions reported above normalised to tCO e per total m of revenue 19.0 2 1 Includes back-up generator fuel, company car business use and refrigerant losses of owned units measured by Defra guidance for operational losses.
Refrigerant losses are excluded for landlord systems and data centre services provided to Betfair under lease and service provision.
2 Includes electricity, gas and heating purchased by direct use or proportional charge by landlord.
Emissions calculated using UK Government and international GHG conversion factors.
Our facility in New Jersey has been included by assessment, due to the required information not being available from the serviced office lease provider.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201435 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
