STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 55 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE The Committee has been encouraged bytheprogress in the definition and execution ofthe Groups Environment andClimate Change strategy.
SIR DAVID MANNING | CHAIRMAN OF THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE In a challenging operating environment, 2014 was a key year for the Groups Meetings of the Committee are normally theCommittee has been pleased to note Environment and Climate Change strategy.
attended by the Executive Vice President, thecontinuing prioritisation of safety by Following feedback borne out of the 2013 Policy and Corporate Affairs and the Executive management and employees.
In support Committee evaluation exercise, the Head Vice President, BGAdvance, together with ofthis focus on safety, the Committee ofEnvironment now has a standing reporting theHeadofSafetyand Asset Integrity, the reviewed HSSE and asset integrity performance line to the Committee and we have been Head ofEnvironment and other members inthe Groups operations during the year.
encouraged bythe progress in the definition ofsenior management tosupport Inparticular, the Committee received briefings andexecution of the Groups strategy.
on a major safety stand down acrossthe Group.
In particular, we welcomed the lead taken ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR This stand down included a centrally bythe Group in the Climate and Clean Air During 2014, the Committees key producedvideo, with messages from the senior Coalition Oil and Gas Methane Partnership activitiesincluded: management team, together with interviews ahead of the public launch of the initiative Considering the Groups HSSE and asset from individuals involved in recent incidents, inSeptember 2014 at the UN Climate integrity performance: and was supplemented in assets with locally Summit.
The Committee has also supported produced material.
The stand down was judged thejoint focus on strategic initiatives by Considering the changing socio-political to be a considerable success and theCommittee theEnvironment and Safety teams to environment in key assets and in potential will continue to work withmanagement harnessnew technology to support safer new country entry opportunities: toensure that feedback received as part of working practices.
Meeting with Asset General Managers thisexercise is appropriately considered and SIR DAVID MANNING tounderstand in detail the socio-political actioned.
In light of the continuing focus on CHAIRMAN OF THE challenges facing the business from an safety, the Committee has been encouraged SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE assetperspective: to note an improving trend in the Groups KPI for safety, TRCF, which was 1.38 for the year Reviewing the Groups social investment against a target of1.40 2013: TRCF 1.64, strategy: ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE against a target of 1.75.
This performance The Committee scrutinises BGGroups Reviewing progress to develop projects indicator reflects continued good progress workinengaging with its stakeholders in tosupport the Group in meeting its target at QGC, where the number ofincidents has government, the political world, civil society, forGHG emissions intensity to 2017: and continued to fall despite the asset moving themedia and the communities in areas intothe challenging phase ofcommissioning A deep-dive review into the Groups where the Group alreadyoperates, or may and start-up.
This supports the During the year, the Committee also establishment andmaintenance ofthe 2015 PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW maintained a heavy focus on Licence to GroupsBusiness Principles and its Licence The Sustainability Committees performance Operate risks inherent in new country entry toOperate Policy.
Detailed terms of reference wasassessed as part of the Boards annual and monitored the Groups Licence to Operate forthe Committeecan be found at effectiveness review.
It was concluded mandate in existing countries of operation.
Insupport of this focus, Caio Koch-Weser and RELEVANT SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE Inresponse to the findings of the review, Iwelcomed the opportunity to visit Myanmar During 2014, the Committee was comprised theCommittee will spend more time during with members of the team responsible for the  Directors, who bring 2015undertaking in-depth reviews on progression of our interest infour exploration anindependent objectivity to the Groups technicalsubjects such assafety and asset blocks located in the Rakhine Basin, offshore sustainability agenda.
This is complemented integrity processes and systems.
We reviewed the complex social by the Directors broad range ofskills, experience andpolitical considerations that accompany The Committee will continue to focus in and knowledge in relationto international thedevelopment of those interests.
Several 2015on evolving political, regulatory and finance and business leadership, geo-political members of the Committee also took time environmental issues and risks, and looks and socio-economic matters, and the extractive tovisit the Aberdeen office to examine closely forward to supporting Helge Lund in his industries.
Theappointments of MartinFerguson thechanges in the UK Continental Shelf, consideration of sustainability matters as and Baroness Hogg to the Committee in particularly the impact of the Wood Review, partof his overall review of the Groups January 2014 enhanced the Committees overall new regulation and fiscal reform.
skill set in relation to Australian socio-political details of visits undertaken bythe Board issues and UK government fiscal matters.
during the year are set out onpage 53.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
