Corporate social responsibility Combining ethical investing with sound business practice Ashmore at all times seeks to comply with all sanctions imposed by Investment applicable government authorities, and also at a geographical level Business conduct and integrity screens across all investment themes for countries which are on the Ashmore believes that its reputation as an ethical, trustworthy United Nations and EU UK Sanctions and the US Office of Foreign provider of investment services is essential to its core purpose of helping clients to build their financial security.
Ashmore seeks to Assets and Control OFAC lists, for example, during the recent establish and maintain long-term relationships with its clients and Russia Ukraine crisis.
intermediaries and believes this to be a fundamental prerequisite Environmental, Social and Governance ESG philosophy for the growth of its business.
Equities Responsible investing across Ashmores themes ESG criteria tend to be focused primarily on equity investing because Ashmore aims to ensure that the governance bodies of the of the influence which shareholder interests are able to exert on the investments it makes comply with their own industry standards and management of a particular company.
best practice, treat their employees fairly, have active community Ashmore believes that the way in which companies manage their programmes and operate with sensitivity to the environment.
relations with stakeholders can have an impact on business Ashmore has made investments in a number of renewable energy performance.
These stakeholders encompass employees, local projects in different countries including hydroelectricity, geothermal communities, wider society, governments, supply chains, customers energy and sugar-based ethanol production.
Investments have also and the natural environment.
There are a wide range of ESG issues been made in a Middle East-based technology company which which could be relevant for a company depending on the industry in provides systems products and services for the reduction and which it operates and its specific business profile.
ESG issues can recycling of waste and the preservation, protection and restoration become new sources of risk or opportunities for companies, and a of the environment: and, in China, in a company which makes companys ability to respond to these issues can therefore act as an batteries for electric vehicles, principally for use in buses.
These early signal of long-term competitiveness.
To the extent practicable, investments on behalf of clients reflect Ashmores overall approach Ashmore routinely monitors the ESG performance of the companies in to combining ethical investing with sound business practice.
which it invests through ongoing company visits and other information Amongst the initiatives undertaken in South America is the channels.
Generally, companies disclose corporate governance establishment of an Environmental and Social Management System practices through corporate policies, stock market listings, and market ESMS for the management of investments of a new investor fund press releases for example, Brazil has a separate category for in Colombia within the alternatives investment theme.
This fund companies committed to corporate governance best practice.
has been developed in a form and substance acceptable to the Companies may also disclose environmental and social practices in Inter-American Development Bank IDB and International Finance annual reports and other reports to investors.
These are then highlighted, Corporation IFC.
as appropriate, in Investment Committee reports when relevant.
Ashmores funds and segregated accounts each have a specific As a global investor, Ashmore recognises that legislation and best investment mandate which sets out the parameters for investment.
practice standards vary among countries and regions, and that it Within the equities and corporate debt themes Ashmore is able to must remain sensitive to these differences.
However, at a minimum, screen client portfolios to meet client requirements for geographic, Ashmore expects the companies in which it invests to comply with sector and stock specific restrictions.
Stock specific restrictions the national legislation that applies to them.
may include securities which meet clients own ESG criteria.
Alternatives Examples of investment areas where screening of portfolios can be Ashmores alternatives investment theme often involves its funds offered based on or informed by client requirements using recognised taking significant stakes in investee companies.
In such circumstances investment industry identifiers and coding into Ashmores portfolio Ashmore is in a position to engage positively with the management of management system include alcohol, animal food products, armaments these companies.
In many cases Ashmore believes it to be beneficial manufacturers or dealers, gambling, pornography and tobacco.
to its investors to be proactive in promoting its brand locally by improving the livelihoods of the employees in those companies where it has a significant stake.
When undertaking initial due diligence on any 36 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report investments within the alternatives theme Ashmores deal considerably.
Conversely, to the extent that governments pursue memorandum checklist takes into account the consideration of policies that are not in the best interests of that country then this ESG issues within the investment analysis and decision-making is likely to become a bad investment proposition.
Hence Ashmore process, and the investee companys own ESG practices.
takes investment and engagement disengagement decisions on a case-by-case basis relative to the specific circumstances and Fixed income investment criteria in the best interests of clients.
Within Emerging Markets debt segregated accounts, Ashmore offers clients the flexibility to implement their ESG constraints related to Proxy voting and corporate actions specific countries, sectors and securities for example, restricted lists, Subject to specific mandate restrictions, Ashmore is generally concentration limits etc.. responsible for voting proxies and taking decisions in connection with proxy voting with respect to equities, bonds, loans or other Engagement debt instruments held by or on behalf of the clients for which it Within mature markets, ethical investing has often been portrayed serves as investment manager adviser.
as a negative concept i. e. it involves a decision not to invest in a certain way.
Whilst these concepts are well accepted in mature Where Ashmore is given responsibility for proxy voting and corporate markets Ashmore believes that they are not necessarily conducive actions, it will take reasonable steps under the circumstances to ensure to helping emerging economies develop.
In the context of developing that proxies are voted in the best interests of its clients.
Protecting the countries Ashmore believes that it is also possible to apply other financial interests of its clients is the primary consideration for Ashmore concepts such as engagement within the ethical investment debate.
in determining how to protect such interests.
This generally means proxy voting with a view to enhancing the value of the securities held In the equities theme Ashmore believes that good corporate by or on behalf of Ashmores clients, through maximising the value of governance helps to align the interests of company management securities, taken either individually or as a whole.
with those of its shareholders.
Where possible, Ashmore seeks to maintain constructive dialogue with company management.
Employees Ashmore directly employs approximately 300 people in 11 countries Ashmore considers whether companies have corporate governance worldwide, excluding employees in companies significantly controlled frameworks that are in line with applicable country codes and serve by funds that Ashmore manages.
Ashmores people have always shareholder interests.
Views on corporate governance do not been its most important asset, at the heart of everything it does.
The constrain investment decisions however: often the best investments Groups priority is to develop, manage and retain this talent in order can be in companies where an improvement in corporate governance to deliver the potential of the organisation.
Ashmore wishes to be an practices is anticipated.
In many jurisdictions, and to the extent employer which the most talented people aspire to join wherever it consistent with Ashmores fiduciary duty to its clients, Ashmore operates.
Ashmore recognises that the involvement of its employees exercises voting rights as a means to signal views to company is key to the future success of the business and adopts a practice of management.
Ashmore has developed detailed guidelines to guide keeping employees informed on significant matters affecting them, voting decisions, but will, as appropriate, consider resolutions on via email and in meetings arranged for the purpose.
Ashmore has a case-by-case basis taking into account all available information.
consistently operated a remuneration strategy that recognises both corporate and individual performance.
Ashmore is also committed to The majority of Ashmores assets under management continue to be following good practice in employment matters, recognising the part invested in either fixed income the majority of which is sovereign or this plays in attracting and retaining staff.
In the case of fixed income investments, Ashmores ability to have an influence is generally limited to a decision whether Ashmore seeks to ensure that its workforce reflects, as far as or not to invest.
However, at a country level Ashmore believes that it practicable, the diversity of the many communities in which its is able to exert an influence through dialogue with governments and operations are located.
Ashmore also recognises the diverse needs central banks.
In order to assist with the debate on the broader issues of its employees in managing the responsibilities of their work and affecting Emerging Markets, to enhance the understanding of these personal lives, and believes that achieving an effective balance in markets globally and to address market failures, Ashmore engages these areas is beneficial to both Ashmore and the individual.
Ashmore with numerous international public sector financial institutions with encourages employees to act ethically and to uphold clearly the the objective of aiding transparency and best practice.
Engagement standards of practice which its clients have come to expect.
It also with a country, as opposed to disengagement, is akin to many small means ensuring that employees understand the strategic aims and pressures every day as opposed to one big stick.
By remaining objectives of the Group and are clear about their role in achieving them.
engaged over an extended period of time it is often possible to have a positive influence and to add credibility.
Where Emerging Markets are concerned therefore, it is believed that in certain circumstances it may be more beneficial to keep UK Stewardship Code investment flowing combined with the influence which accompanies Details on how, and the extent to which, Ashmore complies it in order to continue being able to help a countrys population.
In with the principles of the UK Stewardship Code are described country specific terms at the extreme, being cut off from capital may separately on the Ashmore website at: allow undemocratic rulers to control their people by attributing blame https: www.
com investor-relations for economic problems to foreign actions.
Sanctions may be corporate-governance counter-productive and may reduce the welfare of the population Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Corporate social responsibility continued The Ashmore Foundation: Making a positive difference The Ashmore Foundation was established in January 2008 Livelihoods and seeks to make a positive and sustainable difference to Providing vocational training for disadvantaged young people disadvantaged communities and particularly young people in Building community knowledge, resources and capacities the Emerging Markets communities in which Ashmore operates for sustainable local enterprise and invests.
To achieve this goal, the Foundation aims to develop Supporting effective social enterprise which benefits long-term relationships with high-impact, locally-based nondisadvantaged groups government organisations NGOs.
The Foundations financial The Ashmore Foundation currently has seven priority countries support enables these organisations to directly enhance human Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, India, Indonesia, Philippines and welfare, opportunities and skills.
Turkey based on the location of Ashmore offices and significant The Foundation has a full-time Director in order to develop and investments, as well as the existence of a strong civil sector manage the Foundations affairs.
The board of trustees consists and clear social needs on which the Foundation can focus.
of six Ashmore employees in addition to one independent trustee.
Supporting locally-based NGOs in Emerging Markets reflects Ashmore also supports the Foundations charitable activities Ashmores desire to give back to the countries that have through the provision of pro-bono office space, administrative contributed to its profitability, supporting empowerment and support and a matched funding commitment for employee local capacity in Emerging Markets.
The Foundation is supported solely The Foundation supports civil society organisations through two by Ashmore and its employees globally.
Crucially, this support grants schemes: small grants of up to 5,000 of unrestricted from employees extends beyond financial aid through to active funding, and partnership grants which are longer-term funding engagement in fundraising such as the Ashmore Three Peaks relationships, typically between 20,000 and 50,000 per year Challenge which raised over 53,000 for two grantees and over three years.
Whilst the Ashmore Foundation does not a network of support which includes mentoring and helping accept unsolicited applications, small grants are specifically NGOs expand their network of contacts.
designed to support employee recommended organisations.
The Ashmore Foundations focus of work is designed in response Partnership grantees are sourced through recommendations to the fact that, despite economic growth in Emerging Markets, from experts, existing partners and detailed research undertaken disadvantaged communities in many countries remain affected by by Foundation staff.
poverty and lack access to basic healthcare, services and education All proposals to the Foundation undergo a rigorous assessment opportunities that are both a basic right and could greatly improve which is designed to review not only the proposed activities their life situations.
Moreover, a thriving civil sector is essential to but the organisation as a whole taking into consideration democratic development in nascent and emerging nations.
day-to-day management, strategic governance, charitable The three main areas of focus for the Ashmore Foundation are: activities and results, resources and accountability.
The level and depth of due diligence is proportionate to the size of the Education grant under consideration.
Making education more inclusive for vulnerable children and young people In addition to the grants programme, the Ashmore Foundation Improving access to and quality of education supports civil society organisations through funding partnerships with other foundations.
These partnerships enable the Foundation Preparing disadvantaged students for real life to bring its resources to bear with the skills and expertise of other Health organisations to most effectively support civil society.
Increasing knowledge of and access to nutrition, safe water Through the Ashmore Foundation, close to 2.5 million has and sanitation been committed to more than 50 charitable causes throughout Improving access to basic health services particularly maternal Emerging Markets since inception in 2008. and child health Reducing risky behaviours of young people through education www.
org 38 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Ashmore works to ensure employee policies and procedures reflect Diversity best practice within each of the countries where it has a presence.
Ashmore is committed to providing equal opportunities and seeks to This means having policies and practices that make Ashmore an ensure that its workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, the diversity attractive place to work in respect of the day-to-day operating of the many communities in which it operates.
Ashmore employs environment and culture, and also in respect of medium to long-term over 29 different nationalities throughout the organisation.
The gender growth for employees, personally, professionally and financially.
balance is currently 65% male and 35% female.
High ethical standards It is the Groups policy to give appropriate consideration to Ashmores Board of Directors seeks to maintain a strong corporate applications from disabled persons, having regard to their particular culture employing high standards of integrity and fair dealing in the aptitudes and abilities.
For the purposes of training, career conduct of the firms activities, compliance with both the letter and the development and progression including those who become disabled spirit of relevant laws and regulations, and standards of good market during the course of their employment all are treated on equal terms practice in all jurisdictions where the Groups business is carried out.
Ashmore operates a zero tolerance policy The Boards aim is to enable Ashmore to demonstrate that the Group towards harassment and bullying and has a formal policy that is fit and proper to undertake its business, to safeguard the legitimate documents the organisations commitment to ensuring employees interests of Ashmore clients and to protect Ashmores reputation.
are treated with respect and dignity whilst at work.
Taxation Ashmore is committed to paying tax in accordance with all relevant Gender diversity number of employees laws and regulations and complying with all fiscal obligations in the territories in which it operates.
To facilitate this, the Group works to create and maintain transparent and open working relationships with BOARD % all relevant tax authorities.
Ashmore aims to maximise value for its shareholders and clients by managing its business in a tax efficient and transparent manner, within the remit of the applicable tax rules.
Financial crime 2 Ashmore is committed to minimising financial crime including money laundering, bribery and corruption, fraud and market abuse.
Ashmore has adopted risk-based policies and procedures on financial crime 6 and is committed to ensuring that its customers identification will be satisfactorily verified before a business relationship commences: this is ongoing throughout the course of the relationship.
Training is provided to all employees in relation to anti-money laundering and countering terrorist financing, including customer OPERATING COMMITTEE % due diligence requirements, identifying money laundering, suspicious activity and financial crime.
Ashmore has procedures in place to provide staff with a means of airing concerns about behaviour or decisions that are perceived to 2 be unethical.
This can be done either directly or on a confidential basis about possible wrongdoing in the firm whistleblowing procedures.
10 Employee development Ashmore believes that constructive performance management is an essential tool in the effective management of its people and business.
Ashmore ensures all employees are competent to undertake their roles, have access to training as it is required, ALL EMPLOYEES % and can demonstrate their continuing professional development.
The performance management cycle comprises setting objectives and an annual performance appraisal against those agreed objectives.
Output from this performance process is used to assist with decisions on remuneration, career development and progression.
101 190 UK Stewardship Code Details on how, and the extent to which, Ashmore complies with the principles of the UK Stewardship Code are described separately on the Ashmore website at: https: www.
com investor-relations Male Female corporate-governance Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Corporate social responsibility continued Health and safety Greenhouse Gas Emissions reporting The health and welfare of employees is very important to the Group.
Effective from 1 October 2013 all companies listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange have to report their Ashmore promotes high standards of health and safety at work and Greenhouse Gas emissions GHGs in their annual report.
Further has a comprehensive health and safety policy which is incorporated details can be found in the Directors report on pages 52 to 55. into the staff handbook and which highlights the commitment to ensuring employees are provided with a safe and healthy working Travel environment.
In London, Ashmore carries out regular risk Although Ashmore endeavours to make maximum use of available assessments of premises and provides staff with safety training technology, such as video conferencing, its business model as an including training to fire wardens and first aid representatives.
investor in Emerging Markets inevitably requires that investment Ashmore also engages external consultants to carry out regular professionals and other members of staff travel frequently to these health and safety and fire assessments in its London premises.
countries to investigate and monitor opportunities.
There have been no reportable accidents in the UK or Recycling overseas premises.
Ashmore has in place recycling programmes for waste paper, photocopier toners and other disposable materials.
Ashmore seeks Human rights to minimise the use of paper as part of its clear desk policy and Ashmore supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of electronic scanning is actively encouraged.
All printing is two-sided Human Rights.
Environment Ashmore is conscious of minimising its impact on the environment.
As an investment manager, Ashmore has a limited direct impact upon For this reason, wherever possible Ashmore chooses paper stocks the environment and there are few environmental risks associated that have been sustainably sourced and which are Forest Stewardship with the Groups activities.
Ashmore does not own any of the buildings Council FSC accredited or equivalent for its marketing materials where it occupies floorspace and invariably buildings in which it does and business stationery.
have a lease are multi-tenanted and costs are apportioned to each tenant pro-rated according to occupancy.
Ashmores largest property Ashmore provides obsolescent computers to Computer Aid occupancy is at its headquarters at 61 Aldwych, London, where International Computer Aid, a UK registered charity that aims to it occupies a single floor of approximately 19,000 square feet in a reduce poverty through practical ICT solutions.
Computer Aid sends nine-storey multi-tenanted building.
these PCs to various projects across Africa and South America and furnishes Ashmore with details of where they are used.
Any units that Electricity usage in London is separately monitored by floor with are not usable are disposed of in an environmentally friendly fashion.
renewable energy accounting for a minimum of 10% of supply.
Energy efficient lighting is installed in the building with sensors By order of the Board which turn lights off when no movement is detected.
The building has received an Energy Performance Certificate with an Asset Michael Perman Rating of 98.
Company Secretary 10 September 2014 40 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014
