| 48 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Our people and communities Building the future This section sets out our strategy in relation to our people, the environment, climate change and sustainability, as well as social, community and human rights issues Our people Corporate 26,364 responsibility Employees Below we set out our people strategy: Below we set out our corporate responsibility strategy: Achievement To drive performance, we will: Environment and climate change 6 5% Recognise exceptional performance and To reduce our impact on the environment 2013: 56% reward outcomes and climate change, we will: Ensure our goal-setting and reward Manage our environmental risks and 2014 employee engagement systems drive improved performance help customers to adapt to climate year-on-year change Constantly seek new knowledge and Work with policy makers and other better ways of doing things stakeholders to tackle climate change Silver award Gain competitive advantage through our Encourage our customers, suppliers and ability to execute brilliantly people to make sustainable choices.
Provide clarity and enable accountability.
Trust and transparency Sustainability Index Potential To build trust and be more transparent, To reach our full potential, we will: wewill: Attract and develop people who are the Strengthen Avivas business and envy of the industry reputation by embedding our business Inspire our people to dream more, learn ethics code more, do more and become more Demonstrate our sustainability in Identify and invest in people who are products, services and procurement critical to our future success through clear and transparent reporting Ensure our performance is improved by Engage with our stakeholders to build embracing people who think and act strategic relationships and evolve our differently strategy.
Value both leadership and technical expertise.
Community development To best develop the communities we live Collaboration and work in, we will: To encourage teamwork, we will: Act responsibly in our communities to Invite challenge and ask fierce questions extend our positive impact through with the right intent expertise and partnership Use a single set of global metrics Partner with experts to use our insight Work and win together readily adopting and expertise as a catalyst to create good ideas from others positive social change Enable transparent and engaging Support our people with volunteering conversations time and matched fundraising for Ensure our office space and IT encourage causes that matter to them.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 49 Our people in action Embedding our We are changing purpose and values our culture and In 2014 we focused on embedding our supporting our purpose, values and their associated behaviours across Aviva.
We believe our people to achieve customers, communities and shareholders will benefit as we simplify our business, their potential, so challenge the status quo, and tackle the issues that are important to them.
We they can best serve started with a Leading Our Strategy event for all our 3,500 Aviva leaders our customers globally to help them focus on what our purpose and values mean both for the and enable us to organisation and for each employee.
Those leaders then delivered a training achieve outstanding programme to allemployees, called Exploring Our Strategy, to immerse them performance.
This was designed to support our people to set goals for their work and personal lives, to help them make Christine Deputy a more personal connection with Avivas Group HR Director values and strategy.
When we measured progress at the end of 2014, 83% of our pictured left people agreed they know how the Aviva values apply to their role.
Engaging with our people advances in levels of pride, motivation and Our people advocacy.
Our engagement rating is now We want our people to feel valued and 3% points above the norm in the global Our people strategy is about changing our ensure they can help shape Avivas future, so financial services sector.
culture and supporting our people to we encourage open, two-way conversations The survey told us that 87% of our achieve their potential, so they can best with our people.
In 2014 we used new ways employees feel informed about important serve our customers and enable us to of engaging with our people through digital events 26% points above global financial achieve outstanding performance.
This included a series of live events services norms, 81% understand our people thesis sets out how we will be presented by members of the Group business priorities, 92% understand what different to other employers.
Executive team, who spoke informally about is expected of them, and 82% feel it is key elements of our strategy and answered safe to challenge the way we do things.
Transforming our culture employees questions.
Videos and transcripts The survey also identified areas where of these events were made available to all we need to make further progress.
Only In our 319 year history, the important employees via the intranet.
two in three employees say that they feel things have never changed people We have introduced quarterly surveys recognised, highlighting the importance of matter to us.
There are a number of social called Snapshot asking a randomlyindividual and team praise.
Additionally and demographic trends affecting selected group of employees for their our people asked for more practical workplaces across the globe and these are direct feedback.
These surveys give us opportunities to collaborate with having an impact upon our global insights which we have used to help make colleagues to benefit customers.
positive changes for our people.
Our people managers across the world These include increased cultural We have taken the same approach into held open conversations with their teams diversity, ageing workforces and a scarcity our annual, all-employee survey, Voice of about the survey results, and agreed actions of talent in some areas.
This helps us to understand our they can take together.
Avivas senior include the ubiquity of mobile technology people and identify what we need to keep leaders spent time hosting town halls and and a culture of constant connectivity.
doing and where we can improve.
This all-employee calls where they shared their To meet these challenges, we need to year over 25,000 colleagues took part.
response to results and announcements, continue recruiting talented colleagues, We measure progress in this area and committed to actions they would take improving performance management and through levels of employee engagement.
We also held employee boosting employee engagement.
2014 saw engagement improve 9% points consultative forums in the UK and Europe to 65%, driven by a double-digit uplift in to support further conversations about how trust of our senior leaders, as well as we develop the business.
| 50 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Our people and communities continued Our focus for 2015 and beyond will be on We believe striking a gender balance will We are committed to ensuring we provide continuing our communication efforts, enrich and improve our decision-making full and fair consideration to applications increasing transparency with our people and therefore business performance as a for employment from people with and customers, building our leadership whole.
To this end, in 2014 we signed up disabilities, as well as supporting capability and creating a culture of to the UK Governments Think, Act, employees who become disabled during collaboration and recognition.
Report initiative which encourages their employment.
We adapt the working companies to disclose progress on equal environment and where we can, offer Leadership development pay and gender equality.
flexible working practices to ensure the We are committed to achieving, by the retention of our employees, no matter In 2014, we transformed our approach end of 2015, the recommendation of Lord what their personal circumstances.
toleadership development, focusing on Davies Women on Boards Review that achieving outstanding performance.
25% of our Board membership should be Attracting and retaining talent Wehave developed a leadership model female.
In 2014, we put two new and a programme to build capability in We continued to focus on attracting and subsidiary board policies in place to ourleaders, called Leading@Aviva.
retaining the best talent with a particular increase board diversity in our Irish Thisnew approach has been developed in focus on attracting talent in digital, business and Aviva Investors.
conjuction with the Group Executive team predictive analytics and actuarial to support In addition we focused on expanding and senior leaders in each market, and we our strategy.
In 2015, we will launch a new and building the vibrancy of our employeeplan to deliver Leading@Aviva to all global onboarding programme.
run womens networks, including 3,500 people managers globally in 2015. introducing new networks in the UK This will ensure that building our peoples Safety and wellbeing andCanada.
capability will become an everyday 2014 also saw our Aviva Pride We carried out a How we work survey element of Avivas leadership culture.
network, focused on Lesbian, Gay, in 2014.
This confirmed that our people Bisexual and Transgender LGBT issues, wanted a more inspiring environment, Learning and development grow its membership in the UK.
The with more thinking time and space to network is a powerful voice in Aviva on We are committed to providing an increase collaboration.
We are responding LGBT issues, and works with HR, environment in which our people can to this, for example by incorporating new Marketing and customers to make continue to grow and thrive.
We want our quiet working areas.
Aviva Pride also works in people to build careers at Aviva.
We are To help our people maintain a healthy the community to raise funds for the therefore encouraged that 72% told us working life, we offer a number of Albert Kennedy Trust.
Aviva was ranked that in the previous six months they had th initiatives including flexible working hours, 15 in the Stonewall Top 100 list of the opportunity to develop their skills.
career breaks and employee assistance Britains most gay-friendly workplaces.
In addition to more traditional programmes.
In 2014, we launched Our fairness and equality policies in the technical skills training such as courses well-being training for all our people as part UK, and their equivalent policies globally, and computer-based training, our people of our Essential Learning programme.
ensure that Aviva fully supports employees like to work on projects which stretch and who have a protected characteristic or develop them in their current job.
One of who are from an under-represented group, Corporate Responsibility the ways in which we are delivering this ensuring no fear of bias for training, isthrough Systems Thinking, a key promotion or reward.
Our Corporate Responsibility CR strategy differentiator for Aviva.
We encourage is underpinned by Avivas purpose and employees to develop better ways of values.
It sets out our approach to the working and to make processes simpler for environment and climate change, customers.
We have extended the roll-out sustainable and transparent business of Systems Thinking to all levels in some practices, and community development.
The restructure and areas of Avivas business.
This is being During 2014, we engaged with our supported by an immersive programme stakeholders on the way we run our overall growth of targeted at senior leaders to help them business.
In 2015, we will launch our new understand Systems Thinking.
This has strategy, responding to the evolving needs the business has been delivered to 400 senior leaders in of our people, customers, shareholders 2014, with more sessions planned in 2015. and employees.
Aviva Our business standard is how we ensure Increasing diversity and inclusion we meet our CR commitments, andhelps is moving forward us deliver our strategy.
CR is also embedded In 2014, we looked afresh at our Diversity in our risk management framework.
with the times and and Inclusion strategy.
Our core belief is that we will improve Avivas performance Trust and transparency introducing more by embracing people who think and act differently.
As a result, alongside building We want all our stakeholders to trust us.
online services and an inclusive and engaging culture, our We are committed to making sure that we immediate aim is to increase our overall communicate with our customers in a fresh ideas.
diversity across all levels in the organisation, straightforward and transparent way.
This with an initial focus on gender.
commitment is reflected in our customer Half our employees and customers are business standard.
Yet only 21% of our senior management team and subsidiary board employee comment members, 19% of our Group Executive and 18% of our Board are female.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 51 Business ethics UN Global Compact expertise, we maximise the value of our UN Womens Empowerment Principles.
We aim to uphold the highest ethical We work with partners such as the standards in managing our business.
As part of our work in embedding human Red Cross and Macmillan Cancer Support Thiscommitment is set out in our business rights into how we do business, we focus for our customers and communities.
In 2014, 96% of Aviva on five human rights stakeholder groups: Wealso work to increase access to employees confirmed they had read, insurance.
For example, we are the largest understood and accepted the code provider in the UK of social housing 2013:95%.
This year our community development Financial crime Employees contribution was 6.3 million.
This includes We manage our risks by delivering on our contribution to supporting We are responsible for managing the risks our commitment to respect and promote emergencies such as the Ebola epidemic.
of financial crime so that the costs are not fair reward, diversity and inclusion, equal passed on to our customers.
Our opportunities, labour relations and Employee involvement employees receive annual training on freedom of association.
Our global We encourage all our employees to take up confidential malpractice reporting service to three days paid leave a year to volunteer.
Right Call provides the means to report In 2014, 23% of employees volunteered employee fraud.
All cases reported are 40,220 hours 2013: 41,223 hours.
We continue to encourage Supply chain In2014, 39 cases were received through volunteering related to our peoples skills We ask our suppliers to disclose their Right Call.
33 cases reached conclusion across the business.
human rights policies, and engage with and six cases remain under investigation.
them where necessary to address any There has been no material litigation concerns we have.
Our procurement arising from cases reported through our contracts require suppliers to commit to malpractice reporting service in 2014. the ILO core labour standards and uphold the UNUDHR.
Leading public debate Aviva continues to take a lead in tackling systemic environmental, social and governance issues relating to the financial Customers services sector.
Our strong partnerships Our business ethics code requires us with governments, regulators, companies, to conduct business in a way which respects Non-Governmental Organisations NGOs human rights.
This includes being clear in our and investors mean that we can play an communications and processing personal important role in promoting responsible data responsibly.
investment in markets around the world.
Last year we responded to a number of key policy consultations focusing on the UNs Post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals, the EUs 2020 Strategy and Flood Community Re the UK scheme to make sure all Our corporate responsibility, climate households can get affordable flood change and environmental practices insurance.
This year we have encouraged arealigned to the UNUDHR, ILO core policy makers to tackle the risks of climate labour standards and UN Global change.
We hosted the launch of the UK Compactprinciples.
Governments vision for the 2015 UN Climate Negotiations, at which the Businesses which act Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change spoke.
in a sustainable and Investments responsible manner are Human rights We embed the UN Principles of Responsible Investment across all asset more likely to achieve Our respect for human rights is embedded classes.
Where human rights risks are in how we do business.
For example, we long-term success.
identified in our holdings, we engage with do not insure tobacco, arms and munitions companies to address our concerns.
We do manufacturers and we do not invest our not invest in companies which Steve Waygood money in cluster munitions manufacturing.
Aviva is committed to upholding globally Chief Responsible Investment accepted human rights principles which Officer, Aviva Investors are reflected in the following: Community development UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights UNUDHR Aviva has a long history of investing in UN Nations Guiding Principles for communities.
By focusing on the issues Business and Human Rights that matter most to our customers and International Labour Organization ILO those that are most closely aligned to our core labour standards | 52 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Our people and communities continued Community fund Case study Since its launch in 2008, the Aviva Street to School Community Fund ACF in Canada has helped 91 community organisations and contributed CAN$4.5 million to local Avivas five-year global Street to School community projects.
We have collaborated programme came to an end in December across the Group to replicate this model.
It has exceeded its goals.
Having set The UK Broker Fund has invested out to help only 500,000 children, the 300,000 since 2010 and in 2014 Aviva programme helped over one million Poland launched its fund, which attracted children globally.
We are proud to be the over one million votes for community leading corporate body supporting the projects to support young families.
In 2015 campaign for street children to be we will launch more funds in the UK, recognised in the UN Convention on Europe & Asia.
This has helped putstreet children back on the UN Environment and climate change policyagenda.
We are proud of what Street to School We judge the importance of environmental has achieved together with our partners, issues based on the impact on our people and customers.
Over the last five customers, our business and our years our employees have volunteered over stakeholders.
Climate change is societys 95,000 hours of their time for Street to most pressing environmental challenge School, and raised more than 1.7 million.
and the most directly relevant to our Although the global partnership business.
We have a commercial interest in programme has come to an end, Aviva will making sure risks do not become continue to advocate on behalf of street uninsurable and in understanding the children through our work with the potential long-term impact on our Consortium for Street Children and the UN.
Our longstanding work in parts of Asia will Extreme weather events pose a serious also continue for another twoyears.
risk to our business and customers, leading to potential fluctuations in claims and challenges to how we price risk.
We are using our expertise as insurers, such as our Standard, and emission factors from the which are within our organisational knowledge of historical weather events UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors boundary.
We therefore do not have and cutting-edge predictive modelling, to for Company Reporting 2014. responsibility for any emission sources that map future scenarios, and reduce the risk In line with this we report emissions are not included in our business operations.
to our customers and our business.
We are also seeking to reduce our own environmental impact, including improving Controlling our impacts: our energy efficiency, investing in the Avivas carbon footprint boundaries low-carbon economy and understanding Covering 100% employees our indirect impact, such as through our Reporting and offsetting supply chain.
We are also building environmental Scope 1 Aviva controls directly benefits into our products and services, for Greenhouse gases emitted directly from example in the way in which we settle activities Aviva owns claims.
In the UK, where possible, we now or part-owns Gas Fugitive Company aim to clean and deodorise items damaged emissions car fleet by fire on site rather than removing them and potentially replacing them.
This means Scope 2 Aviva controls indirectly fewer goods go to waste.
Greenhouse gases emitted indirectly Controlling our impact from consumption of purchased electricity, Electricity heat or steam We publish annual Group performance e emissions, waste and data for our CO 2 water consumption.
Our carbon footprint Scope 3 Aviva influences boundaries identify the scope of the data Greenhouse gases we monitor and the emissions we offset.
emitted indirectly from We report on all of the Greenhouse Gas all other sources GHG emission sources on a carbon All air travel Rail travel Grey fleet dioxide emissions equivalents basis CO e 2 as required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports 2013 Regulations.
Our reporting follows the GHG Protocol Waste Water Rental cars Corporate Accounting and Reporting Greenhouse gas leaks from air conditioning systems.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 53 We have used the two most appropriate We have been rated by CDP as the lowest intensity measures to our business: tCO e carbon intensive insurer in its global 2 per employee and tCO e per million performance ranking.
2 Gross Written Premiums which are We were the first carbon neutral expressed in the table below.
insurer worldwide in 2006 and we continue to offset all operational emissions.
Our offsetting projects have Aviva plc Global greenhouse gas also impacted nearly 500,000 lives in emissions data terms of improved health since 2012.
Tonnes CO e 2014 2013 2012 2 Leading responsible investment Scope 1 20,031 21,787 23,849 Scope 2 46,231 56,842 75,733 We believe that businesses which act in a Scope 3 17,662 26,688 13,181 sustainable and responsible manner are Absolute CO e 2 more likely to achieve long-term success, footprint 83,924 105,317 112,763 Case study CO e tonnes benefiting their customers and society as 2 per employee 2.4 2.8 2.6 awhole.
Reducing carbon CO e tonnes 2 Aviva is a founding signatory to the per m GWP 3.87 4.78 4.96 UNPrinciples for Responsible Investment.
emissions and Carbon We were one of the first global fund offsetting 83,924 115,889 132,827 managers to integrate environmental, Total net supporting emissions 0 10,572 20,064 social and governance ESG issues into ourinvestment decision-making and to Scope 1 operational emissions from owned sources communities e. g. gas, vehicle fleet as part of product exercise our leverage as an institutional service.
investor to drive changes in business Scope 2 operational emissions from non-owned We have long taken responsibility for the practices, especially through voting at sources e. g. electricity.
environmental impacts of our business.
In Scope 3 business activity emissions from non-owned Annual General Meetings.
2006, we were the first global insurance sources e. g. business travel.
We exercise stewardship by Restated.
group to offset our total operational encouraging greater transparency, more Limited assurance provided by emissions and become carbon neutral.
sustainable practices and better corporate In our offsetting process we make a Carbon offsetting through the acquisition and governance.
By doing so we shape new surrender of emissions units on the voluntary measurable difference to people as well as corporate behaviour that helps to reduce market.
the risks for our clients.
We have worked closely with We aim to challenge accepted Aviva goes beyond the requirements of ClimateCare to develop a new way practices and promote fresh debate in the 2013 Regulations and also reports on to measure and report the impact of industries in which we invest.
In doing so, business travel and other scope three offsetting our carbon emissions based we create shareholder value whilst building emissions.
on the methodology we use to measure a legacy for our customers and We purchase 56% of our electricity our community investment impact.
from renewable sources round the world.
support not only reduces carbon emissions In June, our Group CEO, Mark Wilson, However, the UK Government conversion but also has an impact on peoples launched Avivas Roadmap for Sustainable factors require that the CO e element of 2 health, resilience and livelihoods.
One of Capital Markets, which sets out UK renewable electricity should be the projects we support, Lifestraw water recommendations to regulators and policy reported as grid average.
For our filters, means people do not have to boil makers for transforming and aligning unavoidable remaining carbon emissions drinking water on open fires.
This saves incentives in order to create a more we offset these to the value of 100% them money, reduces their exposure to sustainable economy.
We have through the acquisition and surrender of toxic fumes and protects local forests.
championed these reforms within the UK emission units on the voluntary carbon So far, in just three years, we have and at the EU and UN.
made a measurable difference to the lives We are liable under the Carbon of just under 500,000 people in countries Join the debate on responsible Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency including Kenya, India and China.
com Scheme whereby we reported total roadmap emissions of 97,323 tCO e costing 1.16 2 million.
The boundaries of measurement and reporting differ from our global operations emissions, being restricted to the UK businesses emissions from building energy and including the property portfolio of our investment funds managed by Aviva Investors.
In 2014, we met our long term 32% target to cut CO e emissions by 20% 2 Progress against long-term between 2010 and 2020 achieving a CO e target reduction of 32%.
As we have reached 2 our target ahead of schedule, we are developing a new more ambitious target as part of our new strategy.
In 2014, we cut our emissions by 4% compared 2.
CO e tonnes per employee 2 | 54 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Lille, France Support for social enterprises he Social Entrepreneurship sector in France is booming.
But these businesses often struggle to find the funding to support their Tcontinued development.
Aviva Impact Investing France, run by Aviva France and Le Comptoir fide LInnovation, makes pioneering investments over five to seven years to support French social enterprises in their take-off and growth phases.
In December 2014 they made their first investment in a recycling factory in Lille called Le Relais shown right.
Its the leader in France in the collection, sorting and recovery of second-hand clothing and textiles and has, since 1984, created 2,700 jobs.
Avivas investment is in partnership with Minot Recyclage Textile MRT.
Clothes which cant be re-used get a new life as non-woven felts, geotextiles, cleaning cloths or as thermal or acoustic insulation material.
We are delighted to invest in a sustainable business such as Le Relais and contribute to creating a more sustainable future.
Philippe Gravier CFO Aviva France | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 55
