Go Gov vernance ernance P People eople We have created over 2,000 apprenticeship positions within the In 2014 we experienced significant change across Barclays, organisation since the programme began in 2013, and have plans to driven by the refresh of our business strategy as well as the increase this number in 2015.
It is very important to us that we maintain regulatory and economic environment.
We have continued and advocate a partnership in our approach to industrial relations.
We to support our colleagues, focusing on understanding and ensure a regular and constructive dialogue with more than 30 national unions, works councils and staff associations across the globe.
In the UK addressing the impact these changes have had on our and South Africa, our two largest markets, we have formal partnership internal operations.
We continue progress on our journey to arrangements in place.
become the Go-To bank and enabling our colleagues to We consult employee representatives regularly on a wide range of feel part of this is critical to its success.
We have well established regional consultation forums in Europe and Africa through which we engage We are continuing our journey to transform the culture of the bank.
Following the launch of the Values in 2013, the focus in 2014 has been continuing to drive the cultural change through our Senior Leadership Where business restructuring is necessary and could result in potential Group and setting the tone from the top.
Our Values are clearly job losses, we work closely with colleague representatives to avoid articulated for leaders and employees and are helping to shape our compulsory redundancies where possible.
Our goal is to ensure that the desired culture over time.
colleagues that leave Barclays are supported and treated with respect.
In countries where there are no collective representative bodies, we engage Our organisational culture is driven through a number of initiatives that directly with colleagues.
We have focused on putting internal colleagues include: building our colleagues capability and skills, embedding the first and supporting those impacted by change to ensure that, wherever Values into our organisational systems and processes, ensuring a sharper possible, we retain talent within Barclays.
So far over 1,000 colleagues focus on role modelling behaviour, and supporting the development of have been redeployed.
Internals First will become a key driver within our our leaders.
recruitment strategy ensuring we retain and promote internal talent We believe that leadership shapes culture which in turn drives before we look to the external market and will be launched more widely organisational performance.
Our leadership development programme is in 2015. designed with this in mind, focusing on our Values and aligning leaders Barclays places considerable value on the involvement of its employees mind set with the objectives of the balanced scorecard.
The Barclays and continues to keep them informed on matters affecting them and on Leadership Academy, launched in 2013 and designed to help us build a the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
We recognise cadre of leaders who can shape our culture and drive organisational the importance of continuously seeking the views of our employees and performance, continued to be deployed in 2014.
We also deployed our the need to understand the collective voice of the organisation, especially Global Curriculum enabling a consistent approach to core and leadership during a time of change.
In order to help us understand what colleagues development for all colleagues.
The programmes are underpinned by the think about working for Barclays, we deployed the first Global Employee Values and build individual capability through a variety of learning styles, Opinion Survey in October 2014.
This asked all colleagues globally to including multimedia and classroom based learning.
In addition, we have provide their perspectives across a wide range of subject areas through a deployed business training academies across Compliance, Barclays confidential online survey including questions on personal development, Internal Audit, Client & Customer Experience in Personal & Corporate leadership and management, innovation, and citizenship.
Over 90,000 Banking, and Investment Banking, giving access to role specific learning colleagues participated in the survey, providing a depth of insight which as well as core and leadership development.
will inform and shape our people strategy as we move forward into 2015.
To embed our desired culture at all levels of the organisation we have The engagement of colleagues was measured at 72%, a 1.3% decrease implemented the Values across our key people processes.
Given the amount of change taking place in the organisation, it recruitment and promotion processes include an assessment of the is not surprising that there has been a small drop and we are committed Values and Behaviours for all corporate grades.
New joiners are invited to to building engagement further in 2015.
We have performed an in-depth participate in the Being Barclays Global Induction programme as part of review of the results of the survey with all senior leaders and improving their transition into Barclays, enabling them to connect to the employee engagement is a key focus for 2015 to ensure we create the organisational Purpose as they join our Go-To journey.
We have set out right environment for our colleagues to thrive.
the behavioural standards we expect at Barclays in the global Code of Colleague wellness is a contributing factor to colleague engagement and Conduct The Barclays Way and all colleagues are required to attest and following a successful UK pilot in our Personal & Corporate Banking demonstrate their understanding of these.
business this year, the Barclays Wellness Portal for colleagues will be In 2014, our performance management process has assessed colleagues launched in 2015.
The portal enables colleagues to learn more about against both what they do and how they do it.
All colleague objectives wellness, find out what is on offer at Barclays, commit pledges to make are aligned to the 5Cs of the Balanced Scorecard to ensure consistency small changes to their lives, and follow colleagues journeys as well as with Barclays strategic aims at all levels.
The Values in Action sharing stories of their own.
The portal addresses four wellness areas: framework provides a tool to assess employees against how they Think Well, Be Active, Social and Financial.
achieve their objectives and guides employees on behaviour in line with Barclays has made significant progress over the last two years across our the Values.
This framework underpins our approach to embedding the people policies and practices and we will continue to evolve them, Values within Barclays across all key people processes.
ensuring all colleagues are supported throughout their career at Barclays We value sharing in each others success at Barclays and our global and beyond.
Our colleagues have told us they remain committed to recognition plan allows colleagues to recognise the outstanding Barclays, and we remain committed to creating the right environment for achievements of people demonstrating our Values.
Since the launch of the them to thrive and succeed as we progress on our journey to Go-To.
programme in May 2014, over 80,000 colleagues have received a Values Thank You and over 28,000 employees have been nominated by a FTE by region colleague for a non-financial Values Award.
Colleagues are also 2014 2013 2012 encouraged to participate in our all-employee share plans, which have been United Kingdom 48,600 54,400 55,300 running successfully for over 10 years.
Further details of our approach to Continental Europe 9,900 9,800 11,100 remuneration are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 110.
Americas 10,900 11,100 11,100 Barclays is committed to helping young people achieve their ambitions Africa and Middle East 44,700 45,800 45,200 when they enter the world of work.
Our Early Careers proposition Asia Pacific 18,200 18,500 16,500 supports them in achieving their career goals through the graduate, Total 132,300 139,600 139,200 intern and apprenticeship programmes.
Barclays provides pathways for progression from apprentice to graduate supported by recognised qualifications and helps create a pipeline of talent for the organisation.
74 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Independent assessment by external organisations continues to Global employment statistics validate our progress.
For 2014, this has included being named for the 2014 % female employees 51 seventh consecutive year within The Times Top 50 Workplaces for 2013 Women, and by our inclusion within the highly regarded Working 51.1 Mother 100 Best Companies in the US.
In Asia, Barclays won the 7.3 % employees Women in Wealth Management Award, in part because judges were working part time impressed that 40% of senior leaders in Asia are female.
8.4 Helping to shape wider industry change, we launched our market- 19.9 % turnover rate leading Womens Index tradable exchange notes which track the 15.3 performance of companies with diverse boards.
The launch of this product has allowed us to engage in a richer dialogue with many of our % resignation rate 11.8 investor clients about their holistic goals for investment.
9.1 LGBT Continually improving the workplace for our LGBT colleagues has been Diversity and Inclusion another core focus for 2014.
In the Employee Opinion Survey over Barclays is committed to cultivating a working environment where the 4,000 4% employees identified themselves as being Lesbian, Gay, unique talents of all employees are recognised equally.
Our employee network Spectrum continues to retaining and developing a diverse range of world-class professionals is go from strength to strength, enabling a conduit to all colleagues and critical to our success as the Go-To bank.
Our global Diversity and allies who share commitment to LGBT equality.
Inclusion strategy operates across five core pillars: Gender, LGBT, Disability, Multigenerational and Multicultural.
We were the main sponsors of London Pride and launched BPay, our innovative cashless payment service, at this signature event.
Via our Ping A core priority in 2014 has been the continuation of our Unconscious a Pound for Pride campaign, we raised 33,000 for the charity, further Bias programme for our global Managing Director MD and Director increased via the fundraising which also took place to mark World Aids population which has now engaged over 8,500 leaders in the Day and International Day Against Homophobic Oppression.
importance of inclusive talent management.
This is an important enabler for our senior leaders to achieve their diversity goals set out in Barclays was ranked second in the 2014 Stonewall Global Workplace Equality our Balanced Scorecard.
We aim to achieve 26% female representation Index.
We have also consistently ranked within the UK top 25 LGBT in senior leadership across Barclays by 2018. employers every year since the launch of the Index.
We were proud to receive the Stonewall Ad of the Year award for our Barclays Pride campaign, We continue to receive national and international recognition for our which featured Barclays colleagues who represent the LGBT community.
Diversity and Inclusion achievements from prestigious organisations such as The Business Disability Forum in the UK, Community Business Further profiling the diversity of our senior leaders, Mark McLane in Asia, and the Human Rights Campaign in the US.
Global Head of Diversity & Inclusion and Jeff Davis Global Head of Dealing & Sales Trading were ranked 48th and 75th respectively in the Gender Financial Times OUTstanding list of 100 LGBT business leaders, whilst Ensuring female talent can thrive, particularly at the senior leadership Valerie Soranno Keating CEO, Barclaycard was placed 3rd in the level, is a focus for many organisations that recognise the true value of Financial Times OUTstanding list of the top 20 high profile straight allies.
The strength of our commitment to improving gender balance The breadth of our work to develop leading best practices for colleagues is evident by our Board Diversity Policy which states our Board-level and customers is why we have been named by Stonewall as one of just gender aspirations 25% female Board members, and by the inclusion of eight Star Performer organisations that are seen as leaders in their senior leader gender goals within the Balanced Scorecard.
This prestigious recognition reflects our global work and our At all levels we are making progress.
Our Board membership includes steps to revolutionise service delivery.
In line with our Global LGBT agenda three women, and additionally three members of the Group Executive and being named as a Star Performer, we have made the commitment for Committee are female.
As regards to senior leaders Director and MD, 2015 and beyond to actively share best practices and mentor organisations our female senior leadership population stood at 22% at the end of who are working to create a more inclusive work place culture.
2014, which is a 1% increase year-on-year since 2011.
Disability Female representation We are moving closer to our publicly-stated ambition to be the most accessible and inclusive bank.
In 2014, our Accessibility Roadshow 2014 % female staff all grades 51 toured the UK, spending a week in 45 of our flagship branches raising 2013 51 awareness of the accessible services we offer.
We launched innovative new services, including Sign Video which makes it easier for Sign % female 38 Language Users to communicate and our Beacon Technology trials.
Vice Presidents and 37 Assistant Vice Presidents The innovative technology notifies colleagues of a customers accessibility needs when they enter the branch helping us support 24 % female Directors and serve our customers appropriately.
23 We are putting accessibility at the heart of a customer-centric service 14 % female Managing and we have been delighted to receive awards for many of our Directors 12 Accessible Services, including Talking ATMs, High Visibility Debit Cards, and Colleague Accessibility Training Videos.
We also won the Marketing % female Board members 20 campaign of the year at the European Diversity Awards for the TV 20 advert that raised awareness of the audio functionality of our ATMs.
Aligned to our inclusion ethos, we review our recruitment processes to Above shows the positive change in female representation within Barclays during 2014 ensure they are accessible for candidates with disabilities.
In the UK we are a Government accredited Two ticks employer.
Across the Group Our graduate recruitment target of 50 50 gender shortlists means our we provide reasonable adjustments to ensure ability and skills can be focus on gender diversity extends to Early Careers.
This is enabling demonstrated by potential employees.
Where colleagues acquire a Barclays to grow a diverse pipeline of talent for the future.
An inclusive disability or health condition, every effort is made to ensure that their environment is vital to enable the talent we recruit to grow their careers employment with the Group continues.
Similarly, we work to ensure with us: our thriving global Womens Initiative Network is just one way training, career development and promotion opportunities are we support this.
equitable for non-disabled and disabled colleagues alike.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 75 Governance People In 2014 we signed our Time to Change pledge on World Mental Health Multicultural day, expanding on our year-long This is me mental health campaign a 2014 for colleagues.
Our Employee Opinion Survey saw over 5,000 6% UK 25% 2013 Global colleagues identifying as having a disability.
All those with an 26% interest in disability can join our Reach employee network, with new b 41% chapters being launched this year across our global sites.
US 47% Multigenerational c 68% South Africa 2014 69 0.05% 2013 68% Veterans Traditionalists 0.04% Global 56% 12% 51 to 69 59% Baby Boomers 11% Above shows the percentage of underrepresented populations that make up our 28% 39 to 51 global and regional populations.
Note that underrepresented populations are defined Generation X regionally to ensure inclusion with all groups in the workplace 27% a UK includes Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and Non-disclosed.
60% 20 to 39 b US includes Hispanic Latino, Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and Non-disclosed.
Generation Y c South Africa includes African, Indian, Coloured, Other, and Non-disclosed.
62% 20 and below 0.14% Millennial Inclusive of race, ethnicity, nationality and faith, our Multicultural 0.35% Agenda supports Barclays in its positioning as a market leader and the Go-To bank for our colleagues, customers and clients.
The 2014 focus for the multicultural agenda has been to foster a culture of Above shows the different generations working at Barclays and the percentage change during 2014 conversation with a series of events hosted to further build global communication skills and global mindsets.
Our Embrace network brings together all those who share an interest in this agenda, including We aspire to support our colleagues at all stages of their career, and the celebration of Inter Faith week in the UK.
customers at key life stages.
In addition, we marked important cultural and religious calendar dates With five generations represented in our global workforce, our throughout 2014, continued to offer both halal and kosher food in our Multigenerational Agenda ensures colleagues of all ages have a voice.
canteens, and to make quiet rooms available for prayer and reflection in Early Careers includes our significant Apprenticeship programme.
In many of our larger sites.
addition, our LifeSkills and Bridges into Work programmes continue to support those taking their first steps into the world of work.
Being voted one of the top 20 companies to work for in the UK by multicultural graduates reflects the work we have done to ensure Our new employee network Emerge supports anyone who has recently young people from diverse backgrounds choose to bring their talent to joined Barclays whether they join as an apprentice, graduate or are an us 49% of Graduates and 74% of Apprentices were from Black, Asian experienced hire.
This is in addition to our Working Families and Carers and Minority Ethnic backgrounds within our 2014 intake.
network that connects colleagues across various life stages.
Our Barclays Silver Eagles part of our Barclays Digital Eagles team channel the skills and experience that our older colleagues bring: they are in place to specifically support vulnerable customers or pensioners to bank with Barclays in a way that works for them.
Our Armed Forces Transitioning, Employment and Rehabilitation AFTER programme also continued to see ex-military talent join our Company, or be supported to gain relevant work-ready skills.
In 2015, we will continue to embed our newly launched year-long focus on Dynamic Working further building engagement with colleagues who wish to work flexibly, learning from the breadth of people who already work for us in an agile or flexible way.
In the UK, we won Best for all stages of Motherhood at the Working Families Top Employers awards, in part for our approach to Keep in Touch Days for those on maternity leave and for our approach to job share within our Retail bank.
We were also named within the UKs Top 10 Working Families benchmark.
76 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
