58 Beazley Annual report 2014 Responsible business As an insurer we can exert a strong beneficial influence by promoting effective risk management.
We see a clear correlation between forward looking businesses that have such controls in place and businesses that are good corporate citizens.
Highlights We take our social and environmental responsibilities seriously.
But this aspect of our work and of our lives is more than a responsibility.
We support causes our employees feel passionate $319,470 about causes to which we can contribute not only money but also our time andexpertise.
donated to charities Employee engagement is therefore critical both in the support we provide to charitable causes and in contributing more broadly to the quality of life in our local communities.
In 2014, 23 hundreds of Beazley employees rolled up their sleeves and participated as volunteers in 23 community projects in 11 cities volunteering community projects in 11 cities around the world, ranging from schools in east London to food banks in San Francisco.
Our responsible business committee, chaired by Clive Washbourn, sets the global strategy for corporate 37,370,000 social responsibility, which at Beazley is focused on: steps taken by employees during our charity: Health & Wellbeing Walk the World campaign community: sustainability: marketplace: health, wellbeing and safety: and diversity and inclusion.
13 diversity and inclusion forums In 2014 we built on the foundations put in place last year and have clear strategies for each focus area which we are now implementing and measuring.
com Tower Hamlets Cemetery Park Providence Row 58 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 59 Supporting our communities We have 25 offices around the world and our aim is to ensure our presence in the communities where we operate is positive.
Focusing on disadvantaged children and homelessness, weve helped build skills and expertise for entering the workforce, built better learning environments through to helping younger children with their reading and numbers.
Make a Difference 2014 During September and October over 280 employees in the US, UK and Dublin volunteered in our communities to make a positive difference.
Look Ahead Tower Hamlets Cemetery Park Providence Row Feeding America Look Ahead supports people The Tower Hamlets Cemetery Providence Row tackles the An estimated 49 million who, for a variety of reasons, Park is a beautiful wooded root causes of homelessness Americans, including need some extra support area in the east end of London.
to help people get off and stay 16 million children, are food to achieve their goals, The park is used as an outdoor off the streets providing insecure, meaning they live realise their dreams and live classroom during the year food and shelter, employment at risk of hunger.
We spent time for more than 7,000 school support and training schemes.
46.5 million Americans with a group of local people children, providing a welcome The Beazley team helped receive food and groceries who have experienced change of scene from the prepare and cook meals from the Feeding America homelessness in the past housing estates where many alongside catering trainees network, including 12 million building their confidence for of them live.
We spent the day to bringing homeless and children.
Beazley teams job interviews and giving them tidying up the park to help vulnerable people together across the US worked with an opportunity to interact keep it a special place for with local businesses our charity partner, Feeding with business professionals.
to raise awareness and America, to help sort, pack, change perceptions.
deliver and serve food in their local communities.
com Feeding America Look Ahead Trainee of the year award 60 Beazley Annual report 2014 Responsible business continued Supporting our communities continued Lloyds Community programme Brokerage programme For many years, weve to make numbers fun, Since 2007 Beazley has This summer Beazley London supported the Lloyds or to help them develop their taken part in the City of welcomed six students for Community Programme reading, comprehension London Business Traineeship ten weeks to work in different to help build a stronger local and verbal skills.
programme, helping to fund a teams across the business.
community by getting involved charity called The Brokerage.
The partnership has worked in projects in east London.
Ive been volunteering at well, not only for the students Canon Barnett Primary School The programme forges links but also for us, as we saw Each week during the school for 2.5 years now and I find between companies within two individuals from the term, employees from our it just as rewarding as I hope the City of London and 2013 programme return as London office head to Canon the children do.
Its wonderful talented individuals from employees in 2014.
We plan to Barnett Primary School for when you see their faces light the surrounding boroughs expand our involvement in the half an hour during their lunch up when they have achieved who would not normally programme going forward as break, to help children with something and Im impressed have access to jobs in the part of our approach to diversity their reading and numbers.
by the vast improvement they Square Mile.
As part of the and responsible business.
Literacy and numeracy are the make during the course of programme, paid internship building blocks of a good start the school year.
It certainly placements are offered during Were incredibly proud in life, opening up all kinds of injects energy into my day the summer for high achieving that one of our students, opportunities beyond school, as well.
students awaiting their A-Level Jamila Dahoum, went on to and we wanted to be part of results.
The internships last win the Trainee of the Year helping kids build these vital Jasvinder Kaur around ten weeks and give award for the City of London skills.
Our volunteers work the students access to the programme.
Jamila worked with individual children corporate environment, within our specialty lines an insight into the insurance team and is now at Durham world and the opportunity University studying economics.
to learn vital business skills.
com Supporting Canon Barnett Primary School 60 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 61 Building partnerships with charities Our charity committees in the UK and US are made up of passionate employees across the business whose remit is to: encourage and support Beazley people to participate in charitable and community activities: manage Beazleys corporate charitable partnerships: and oversee Beazleys response to large scale disasters.
In 2014 we partnered with: World Child Cancer, ShelterBox, Rwanda Aid, Feeding America and The Conservation Fund.
Throughout the year our employees have given up their time to fundraise for charities raising cash which World Child Cancer Beazley has match funded The partnership with Beazley shared their expertise, to recognise their efforts.
has had a big impact on our knowledge and contacts work this year.
They have to help raise money and Beazley also supported contributed in so many awareness.
They have also communities and donated different ways: theyve run, helped us with things that to charities to support relief cycled, boxed, baked, and as a small organisation we efforts for the US tornadoes, often struggle with, such the Balkan floods and the as our creaking IT system!
Beazleys funding of our Malawi project for a whole year will cover staff training and costs, treatment and drugs for over 270 children.
By training more doctors and nurses we can diagnose and treat children more effectively and raise survival rates.
Jane Page World Child Cancer www.
com Helping children in Malawi ShelterBox London Feeding America 62 Beazley Annual report 2014 Responsible business continued Sustainability Marketplace Our environmental policy clearly states The way we do our business also has an impact our aim and initiatives toreduce our on our partners and our peers.
One of our goals environmental impact.
is therefore to identify and increase the ways in which we can influence others to do the right thing through our business activities.
Our strategy for 2014 and 2015 is to focus on three key areas: Some of our insurance products assist insureds in their our offices: ensuring the environmental impact from our corporate duty of care: for example we provide data breach offices is minimal, and finding ways to enhance our offices assistance when third party records are lost BBR : personal so they have a more positive impact: medical policies for US school teachers to fill the gap between our procurement: leveraging our buying power to make legislative attachment points and ability to pay GAP Medical : a positive environmental impact: and a free advice line and procedure manual review to educate our people and communications: engaging our people employers in the corporate duty of care they owe to their to help achieve our goals, consider their environmental employees EPL : and overseas employee protection to recover approach outside work and keep them informed employees in the event of an emergency situation such as of what we are doing.
those arising from the Arab Spring or the Japanese tsunami Beazley Flight.
Our offices: as part of our Farmington office refurbishment in Connecticut we used environmentally friendly materials For the healthcare team the effect is more tangible: Beazley and also donated the used ancillary furniture.
In Dallas, returns a proportion of the premium to insureds where the we installed LED lighting throughout our new office.
quality of procedures is high, which helps the hospitals we support to improve their systems and their loss record.
Larry Carbon footprint: every day our people do a range of things Smith, vice president of risk management services at MedStar, to reduce our carbon footprint from using public transport a major hospital system based in Maryland, US, has worked on business trips to booking Climatecars, who provide with our hospital E&O team for seven years to improve quality electric and hybrid vehicles and are our preferred car and patient safety at MedStar.
He notes that, With Beazleys transportation company in the UK.
Our recent greenhouse encouragement and financial support MedStar has seen a gas GHG emissions report showed that in the UK we dramatic decrease in the frequency and severity of obstetrical increased our emissions by 1.14% compared to 2012 and in liability claims.
the US increased our emissions by 10% compared to 2012.
This is largely attributable to increased travel by rail and Within its daily activities Beazley always looks for options that air due to a higher headcount.
We increased our video generate additional benefits from our spending, for example by conferencing capability again this year, and live streamed choosing conferencing or entertainment venues that support part of our annual strategy event, to help reduce the charities and local communities.
Recycling: working closely with our landlords we actively Looking forward we will research more opportunities participate in recycling in all offices and ensure our people to extend a positive impact from our business activities into are aware of how they can take part, from using recycled the community: and we will continue to promote activities we paper and multifunction print devices to reusing or recycling think our peers could emulate.
In the healthcare space we will their unwanted clothing.
try to supplement our data with industry data that can reveal what makes a better performing hospital, in order to develop Joining the London Living Wage Foundation a best practice approach that we can share support.
In September, Beazley joined the London Living Wage Foundation.
The Foundation is an organisation that promotes a minimum wage beyond the legal requirement for businesses and their employees, contractors and third party employees.
By joining the London Living Wage Foundation, Beazley will ensure all people who work on Beazley premises for more than two hours per day for eight or more consecutive weeks for example our cleaners are paid the London Living Wage.
We are the first syndicate to follow Lloyds in joining the London Living Wage Foundation.
We believe this is the right thing for our business community to do, and want to use what influence we have to encourage others to join.
Well continue to find opportunities similar to this globally to make a difference in all our communities.
com Movember l Virtually walking the wor d Singapore 62 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 63 Health, wellbeing and safety Diversity and inclusion We continue to ensure all employees, contractors We are an equal opportunities employer, and visitors are given induction, training and ensuring we offer equal treatment to employees supervision in aspects of health and safety, and prospective employees.
Wetreat all ensuing we are up-to-date and compliant with employees fairly, with dignity and respect.
We also conduct risk assessments in all offices.
Our aim is to continue building an open and collaborative culture and this year we have continued to build a solid diverse and inclusive foundation, focusing on: Accountable leadership: raising awareness and encouraging our leaders to actively become sponsors and advocates through their own actions and their approach to leading their teams.
Environment: ensuring we are able to capture the right management information so we can review our existing practices and policies to ensure they support our goals.
Attraction of diverse talent: ensuring we have access to a diverse range of candidates through our recruitment activities.
Communication, awareness and understanding: about diversity and inclusion, sharing ideas and thoughts and creating collaborative sites on our intranet for all staff to get involved with.
In 2014 we ran diversity and inclusion development sessions for our managers covering topics such as unconscious bias and how to lead cross-cultural teams, as well as hosting forums for all employees globally to reinforce our diverse and inclusive culture at Beazley through our Being Beazley initiative.
This year we launched During the summer we a programme to raise asked our employees to join awareness of the wellbeing us measuring their steps benefits we offer to our every day to see if we could employees and to promote virtually walk the world.
We have We walked from our focused on work life balance, San Francisco office all the stress and resilience and way to our Brisbane office in September we wore pink in three weeks as part to support womens health of the Health & Wellbeing and grew or stuck on initiative 18,685 miles moustaches for mens or 37,370,000 steps, health in November.
com and New York Wearing pink for womens health
