Strategic Report Market Environment Personal financial services remains a Clients are increasingly using more UK Private Banks and Wealth Managers growth market with good long-term complex technology which is leading to prospects.
There is increasing demand as the development of new propositions and society has to become more self-reliant in fuelling a real trend towards self-directed specific areas such as retirement provision solutions.
Investors are becoming more 524 bn and long-term care as well as savings sceptical of in-house funds and products in general.
and also expect more education and Assets under Management orAdministration guidance from their advisers.
Scale has The UK private bank and wealth become a more important consideration Source: A Wealth of Opportunities, BBA October 2014 management industry in the UK manages as investors require reassurance regarding assets of 524 billion in total.
The adjacent the security of their assets as well as the table shows the Funds under Management robustness of the organisation dealing with for the sector Brewin Dolphin and its Peer Group Funds their money.
closest peers along with the market share.
under Management FuM In view of the size differentials, the sector Advice gap could see further consolidation.
239 bn One of the issues the industry is facing Our industry offers is the creation of the so called advice gap, which has led to a large potential many opportunities market for investors seeking some The market environment has changed guidance but who are unable to justify considerably in recent years, presenting paying for full advice or have no such challenges and opportunities.
New services are being Increased transparency combined with created to address this new market which growth has encouraged both new entrants could present a threat to established and new business models to challenge the providers as they make use of technology status quo in the industry.
In addition, there is increased competition for high net worth clients and these are two of the key challenges facing Increased regulatory focus the sector.
Over the last few years, there has been significant change in the UK regulatory Competition landscape and there has been an increase Estimated 2 FuM Sector in focus from our regulators, resulting Our markets are substantial, but 1 FY14 Share in increased scrutiny and guidance in fragmented, serviced by a wide range 1.
St Jamess Place 49.1 bn 20.5% the sector.
of suppliers offering diverse services 2.
Cazenove Capital 30.5 bn 12.7% to individual and corporate clients.
Management Despite recent consolidation, the 3.
Brewin Dolphin 29.4 bn 12.3% Changing client behaviours 4.
Investec Wealth 23.9 bn 10.0% market remains highly competitive.
Management Ltd The UK has an ageing population: baby Insurance companies have made a 5.
Rathbones 22.0 bn 9.2% boomers are approaching retirement concerted effort to enter the market, 6.
Charles Stanley 20.1 bn 8.4% and have higher life expectancy than whilstbanks have reduced theirservices.
Smith and Williamson 16.2 bn 6.8% previous generations.
Quilter Cheviot 16.2 bn 6.8% is highly concentrated within this group.
Close Brothers AM 9.7 bn 4.1% The pension and savings reforms 10.
JM Finn 7.8 bn 3.3% announced in this years budget seek to 11.
Ashcourt Rowan 5.3 bn 2.2% simplify the current pension regime and 12.
Brooks MacDonald 4.6 bn 1.9% encourage saving for the future.
Mattioli Woods 4.6 bn 1.8% address the specific needs of wealthy Total 239.4 bn 100.0% clients in an environment of increasing 1 longevity remains a challenge.
Per Annual Report and Accounts with the exception of Quilters Cheviot which is based on other publicly available information.
2 Sector comprises the competitors that Br ewin Dolphin considers its peer group.
10 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 12 11 10 1 9 8 7 2 6 3 5 4 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Enhanced investment advice process During the year we have undertaken a full review of our client engagement and investment process.
We pride ourselves on our approach being personal to each client, with our advisers being empowered to make investment decisions or give advice relevant to each client.
But this must be balanced with a structure to ensure that there is consistency in process and values, and more particularly to help prevent poor advice and unsatisfactory client outcomes.
We have spent time redefining our services, including how we describe and measure risk as well as the various types of service and mandate that we offer.
In line with our objective of developing strong long-term client relationships, our new approach naturally sees us invest more time in our clients.
We are spending time understanding the needs of our clients, but also explaining what we do, the nature of our services and the risks to which their funds are exposed.
It is very important that ourclients fully understand risk and reward, and invest only where they are both willing and able to bear the risks.
We use a simple questionnaire to gain a more in depth understanding of each clients own appetite for risk which is then combined with our advisers expert analysis and judgement.
The time spent with our clients, allows us to better appreciate individual needs and aspirations, and understand more fully a clients financial circumstances.
It is vital that a client understands how we have arrived at our recommendation and, particularly for Discretionary clients, how we will manage their money.
To support this we summarise salient client details and our advice in an easy to read document forclients to keep and against which we can be held accountable.
To help support the overall governance of this framework, we have deployed a new Client Management Solution which tracks each stage of the client relationship to ensure clients receive a complete and timely service.
Our aim is to maintain the highest levels of personalised client service combined with improved operational efficiency.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
