Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Corporate Responsibility Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 As a leading UK company, we take very seriously our responsibilities as a corporate citizen.
We are proud of the contribution we have made to the UK and to the local communities in which we have operated over the past 250 years.
Our primary goal today is to create shareholder value, but in a responsible way which serves all stakeholders and the wider society.
David Nicol Chief Executive Corporate responsibility strategy Our objective is to continue to manage the business responsibly and for the long-term benefit of all stakeholders: clients, shareholders, employees, regulators, suppliers and local communities.
During the year, Brewin Dolphin established a Corporate Responsibility Committee to leverage the existing work done by the Group and its employees to refine and enhance the Groups corporate responsibility strategy.
This strategy was agreed by the Board and will be implemented over the course of 2015.
It will result in greater emphasis and focus by the Group on corporate responsibility and efforts willbe centred on the new flagship theme of Our Next Generation.
Brewin Dolphin corporate responsibility There are four pillars of the Brewin Dolphin corporate responsibility programme: 1 2 3 4 People Clients and Environmental and Culture Governance Communities Sustainability At a glance More than More than 100,000 50 raised and matched by Brewin Dolphin and itsemployees charities supported 47 75% charities supported by small of offices were involved in grants scheme charitable activities Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Governance Corporate Responsibility continued 1 People and Culture People Our people are our greatest assets.
We recognise that to be able to meet the expectations which we set for ourselves we need to attract, nurture and retain the best people.
This priority is reflected in our corporate objectives, that is, we aim to be the employer of choice within the wealth management sector.
Brewin Dolphin is a meritocracy: we recognise hard work, behaviour aligned to our values and a commitment to the Group, its objectives and its clients.
Our culture With a rich heritage, Brewin Dolphin has developed into a modern public company, whilst retaining the values of founding members.
Our key values are integrity, teamwork and client focus and these have been developed over our long history.
Our cultural values underpin everything that we do and these values have been a key factor in our success as a leading Discretionary Wealth Manager.
They have allowed us to recruit and retain some of the most talented people in the industry, serve our clients in the best way and provide returns for our shareholders.
As the Group continues to adapt to the changing conditions in which its business is conducted, and as we develop our strategic plans, our practices will inevitably evolve but our values will remain constant.
Diversity and inclusion Brewin Dolphin is an inclusive employer and we view this as a critical component of our success.
It allows us to be more creative, bring more value to our clients and to create a more enriching environment for our employees.
The Board has a strong commitment tomaintaining a working environment based on equality and diversity.
The Board has committed to a diversity target of 25% for the Board.
Women currently represent 20% of the Board, increased from 12.5% at the end of 2013.
Gender diversity forms an important part of the appointment process and the Board expects to be able tomeet its 25% target by the end of the 2015 financial year.
All employment decisions are made irrespective of colour, race, age, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sex, mental or physical disabilities, marital status or sexual preference.
For employees who may have a disability, the Group ensures where possible that procedures and equipment are in place to aid them.
For the purposes of training, career development and promotion, all employees are treated equally.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, with regard to the aptitude of the applicant concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Group continues, with suitable equipment supplied in order that they can continue in their role.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Learning and development We support the advanced development of our emerging leaders and invest heavily in employees.
Our development opportunities take place both in the classroom and in the workplace.
Brewin Dolphins training and development programmes centres around creating leaders able to provide the best possible service for our clients and this is done through managing and developing our talent.
Employee engagement Delivering on our objectives requires employees to be engaged and play an active role in achieving the Groups objectives.
To this end the Board seeks to ensure that all employees are aware of and are consulted upon desired behaviours and financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the company.
We seek to empower employees through regular communications which inform employees on the direction of the Group, its strategy and financial performance.
We view this as a critical component of our employee engagement programme as it enables engagement in the Groups vision and strategy.
We consult employees on matters that affect their interests and encourage the involvement of employees in the Groups performance through the profit share scheme.
Health and safety We view our business as a community to which our employees belong.
We work hard to ensure that the working environment is safe and conducive to healthy and happy employees who are able to balance work and family commitments.
The Group has a Health and Safety at Work policy which is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Group Board Executive Director responsible for health and safety is David Nicol.
The Group is committed to the health and safety of its employees, clients, sub-contractors and others who may be affected by our work activities.
The Group evaluates the risks to health and safety in the business and manages this through an effective Health and Safety Management System.
The Group provides necessary information, instruction, training and supervision to ensure that employees are able to discharge their duties effectively.
The Health and Safety Management System used by the Group ensures compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements and internal standards and seeks, by continuous improvement, to develop health and safety performance.
66 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 2 Clients and Governance Business standards and clients Our focus on our clients drives everything that we do.
Many of our clients and their families have entrusted us to look after their wealth for generations which is testament to the high quality of personal service we continue to provide.
Brewin Dolphin seeks to act with excellence, leading to rewarding and enduring partnerships with our clients.
We take an integrated approach to protecting and growing wealth that combines our skills and experience in both Investment Management and Financial Planning.
We work hard to retain the trust placed in us and to continue to deliver a high quality service.
Our aim is to be the trusted advisor of choice and we work in partnership with our clients to deliver real results.
We spend time getting to know our clients so that we can do the very best for them.
We are constantly striving to be better, to work harder for our clients and provide a better offering.
Stewardship Brewin Dolphin has always taken its stewardship responsibilities seriously.
Following each AGM announcement and publication of companies resolutions, we give our clients the first opportunity to vote the shares for which they are the underlying beneficiary using our on line facility, Vote Your Shares, which we introduced in 1998.
In the closing days before each AGM, Brewin Dolphin votes the balance of each shareholding not voted by clients and over which we have discretion for the majority of the stocks held in our nominees.
Brewin Dolphin publishes the aggregate voting record for these companies on our website after each AGM.
During the year Brewin Dolphin established a Stewardship Committee to ensure that Discretionary clients interests as holders of securities are protected and, where appropriate, to ensure proactive shareholder action is taken in the best interest of its discretionary clients.
Governance The Corporate Governance Report on pages 35 to 42 explains how the Group applies the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
3 Communities Brewin Dolphin is committed to the communities in which it operates and encourages its employees to participate in local initiatives.
Employees take great pride in the impact they make to their local communities and regularly demonstrate a passion for making a difference.
The firm takes an active role in contributing to local communities and our efforts range from local sponsorships and volunteering, to offering work experience.
Brewin Dolphin Foundation In recognition of Brewin Dolphins 250th anniversary, the Brewin Dolphin Foundation was born.
The aim of the Foundation is to increase the positive contribution we make to the world outside Brewin Dolphin.
Small Grants Scheme Staff are offered the opportunity to apply to the Foundation for grants for small charities that support the local community.
Since the establishment of the Foundation, we have seen good levels of applications to the grant making scheme and look forward to increasing our grant making levels in the coming year.
Payroll giving Brewin Dolphin supports payroll giving.
Over the course of 2014, we were awarded the Payroll Giving Silver award in recognition of the Groups increased commitment to payroll giving.
Volunteering and education Many of our employees volunteer to organisations of their choice across the country.
In the past year we have supported local school children in conjunction with Enabling Enterprises and Career Academies UK and we are proud to help provide bursaries forunderprivileged children at the Reeds School in Surrey.
Local sponsorships and community support We are actively involved in our local communities and are proud to support many very worthwhile local causes spanning the arts and sports.
These include local events such as the Scottish Schools Rugby Tournament, Marlborough Jazz and Literature Festivals, Ilkely Literature Festival, Taunton Flower Show, Shrewsbury Flower Show, Moy Highland Field Sports Fair, the Chalke Valley History Festival and the Borders Book Festival.
We have been a long-term supporter of Durham County Cricket team and the Arundel and Cheltenham Cricket Festivals.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Governance Corporate Responsibility continued 4 Environmental Sustainability This is the Groups first year of reporting as a quoted company under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Global Green House Gas GHG emissions data for period 1 October 2013 to 28 September 2014 Tonnes of CO2e Current reporting year Emissions from: 20132014 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 39 Electricity purchased for own use 2,322 Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions per full time employee for Scope 1 and Scope 2 1.39 Methodology and additional information The table above reports the Groups annual GHG emissions from sources which fall within the consolidated Financial Statements.
Included are most of the emission sources that the Group have responsibility for but some emission sources have been omitted based on materiality and a lack of data.
Details of the emissions which have been omitted are given in the Emission sources not reported section below.
The Group have gathered energy use data natural gas and electricity and applied emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
Emission sources not reported This section of the report details the emission sources that the Group have not reported on and provides the reasons behind the decisions.
Buildings air conditioning refrigerants use We have not been able to separate the Groups space cooling requirements from the general electrical consumption figures as it has not been possible to determine how much cooling energy can be allocated specifically to the Group and how much is already embedded in the overall electricity consumption values for buildings in which the Group mostly occupies under shared occupancy.
We have had services carried out on all of the air conditioning units in our communications rooms which are under our direct control and there was no refrigerant gas loss during the year.
Leased company vehicles for the period on a materiality basis For the current period, the Group had 21 leased cars and compared to the number of buildings the Group operates, the contribution of leased assets is expected to be immaterial: however, a system for capturing this data has been implemented and will be included insubsequent annual reports.
Heat and steam The minority of the buildings that the Group operate directly make use of gas which has been included in our emissions from combustion of fuel.
There is no distinct data on heat steam for our other buildings as this is embedded in the office service charges that the Group pays.
As a result, there is no report on purchased heat or steam.
In future, a methodology will be created to estimate the emissions associated with heating requirements for which the Group are responsible.
Data quality The Groups consumption data comes from two main sources: consumption bills from suppliers reports from property agents etc.
exact data : and approximations based on exact data estimated data.
The Group have used estimated data in some cases due to the lack of complete data for electricity consumption.
The section below details the approach the Group have taken to complete these data gaps.
Where buildings had incomplete electricity consumption figures for certain months over the current reporting period, a conservative approach for estimating this data was chosen.
The methodology used was to apply a daily consumption figure calculated by using the month in the dataset with the highest electricity consumption to the months that had missing data.
In instances where no electricity data was held, the methodology was calculated using the buildings with exact and complete data to calculate average electricity consumption per square metre for each month in the current reporting period.
The monthly average consumption per square metre was used to estimate the monthly electricity consumption of buildings with no electricity data, based on individual floor areas.
68 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
