66 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 OUR PEOPLE, CULTURE, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY, HUMAN RIGHTS AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Introduction satisfied to work at Brit.
Advocacy is an important measure for In order to generate value for our investors, we recognise engagement and 86% of employees who responded would that our people, culture, social, community, human rights now recommend Brit as a great place to work, with 85% being and environmental strategies must be both sustainable and proud to work here.
aligned to the long-term interests of all our stakeholders.
We seek to make both a positive contribution to society and to be Our culture is communicated and lived through an established aware of the long-term consequences of our actions.
framework that identifies and rewards strong performance.
Business plan goals are aligned to our Group vision and used to The responsibility to build a sustainable business means determine individuals objectives, ensuring that all employees recognising and respecting the connections between understand the part they play in the Groups success.
customers, investors, business partners, the marketplace, the workplace, the environment and society at large.
Sustainability We are committed to developing the technical, behavioural, means we seek to generate new commercial opportunities by management and leadership skills required for our teams developing strong stakeholder relationships and by recruiting to outperform both individually and collectively.
During and retaining a highly skilled, engaged and motivated 2014 senior managers including the Executive Management workforce.
Committee EMC received 360 degree feedback to further develop self-awareness and leadership skills.
We are also Our people and culture investing in the future of Brit through our graduate and intern Our people are our greatest asset and managing our talent programmes and our bi-annual succession and talent mapping appropriately contributes significantly to our success.
exercise, all of which aim to grow expertise from within and ensure robust succession plans.
During 2014 we continued to strengthen our highly committed team.
Through the attraction and recruitment of new talent and We have attained Chartered Insurer status for Brit Syndicates the ongoing development of existing expertise, we continued Limited through the Chartered Insurance Institute.
This prestigious to embed a culture of achievement in the organisation.
This has designation signifies to our customers and the market that resulted in employees feeling valued for their contribution as we are committed to the pursuit of the highest standards and part of a team working towards the same goals.
demonstrates our adherence to ethical good practice.
As part of this, over the past two years we have performed In 2014 we continued to focus on our employees work engagement surveys to help us understand how our life balance.
Initiatives to support this include increasing the employees view our company, the corporate environment and standard annual holiday allowance from 25 to 27 days and the behaviour of management.
We had an extremely high giving employees the option of purchasing additional holiday.
participation in both of those surveys with 2014 participation We also enhanced our maternity and paternity packages, at 89%, up 4% on last year.
introduced dental cover for UK-based employees and ran a series of healthcare presentations.
The survey is a powerful tool which provides a significant amount of invaluable feedback on what we are doing well At the beginning of 2014 we established a social committee.
and where we have room for improvement.
We take the This cross-functional group organised a range of social, feedback very seriously and make every effort to continuously community and charitable events for employees during the improve our work environment and culture.
In addition to the Social Committee events, employees scored very well in most of the key measures or statements.
were also invited to participate in sailing events in the Solent For example our overall engagement score increased by 8%, during which more than 60 employees from around the and 77% of our employees who responded were extremely world learned how to sail and race against each other.
This STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 67 developed their team and communication skills and was a Social, community and human rights fantastic opportunity for employees to mix together and meet We are committed to supporting the communities in which we people from other offices.
operate and charities that are meaningful to employees.
Our objective is to select charitable giving and community projects The 2014 staff turnover rate excluding retirements and based on three criteria: projects should be for a good cause redundancies was 6.8% 2013: 10.9%.
and operate in an area relevant to us, financial involvement should be for the benefit of the good cause, and projects At 31 December 2014, 33.9% 2013: 36.8% of staff had should offer alignment with our strategic priorities.
completed at least five years of service and 11.6% 2013: 12.1% had served at least ten years.
During 2014 we supported ten charities nine UK-based and one US-based chosen by employees.
We donated a sum of Employee gender diversity money to each charity at the start of the year and continued We consider Brit an equal opportunities employer with policies with fund raising activities through the year, including a welland procedures that are free from discrimination in relation to attended quiz night.
Our Social Committee also organised all employment matters.
Our equal opportunities policy aims a number of volunteering days in the local community.
We to ensure that no employee, or potential employee, receives further promote staff involvement in the community by less favourable treatment because of his or her gender granting every employee two additional days of paid leave including gender reassignment.
The gender diversity of our a year to volunteer their time to a registered local charity.
employees at 31 December, including non-executive directors of all Group companies, is detailed in the table below.
We also run a payroll giving scheme and match any money raised by employees participating in charitable events.
Gender diversity of our employees 2014 2013 At 31 December Male Female Total Male Female Total Non-executive Directors of the Company note 1 9 9 3 1 4 Executive Directors of the Company note 1 1 1 10 10 3 1 4 Employees in other senior executive positions note 2 7 1 8 8 1 9 Non-executive directors of subsidiary companies not included in above 11 2 13 21 2 23 Other directors of subsidiary companies not included in above 8 8 9 9 Employees in other management positions note 3 100 33 133 89 28 117 126 36 162 127 31 158 Other employees 188 128 316 160 118 278 Total 324 164 488 290 150 440 Note 1: For 2014 the Company refers to Brit PLC: for 2013 the Company refers to Brit PLCs predecessor company, Achilles Holdings 1 S. r. l. Note 2: Senior executives are defined as members of the Executive Management Committee who are not Directors of the Company.
Note 3: Employees in other management positions are defined as those who have employees reporting directly tothem.
68 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 OUR PEOPLE, CULTURE, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY, HUMAN RIGHTS AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS We support and operate our business in accordance with the During 2014 we have made significantly greater use of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and take account of video conference facilities resulting in 455 tonnes of travel other internationally recognised and accepted human rights carbon avoided and on average 423 travel man hours avoided standards.
This support is expressed through a number of our each month.
Following the installation of LED lighting, longerGroup policies.
lasting and more efficient bulbs together with motion sensors in the 2012 refurbishment of our London office, our electricity Distributors, partners and suppliers consumption has reduced by 9%.
We distribute our products through a carefully selected group of brokers and intermediaries.
We also outsource We measure and monitor our carbon footprint.
In 2014 our some of our claims handling operations.
These relationships carbon emissions per employee reduced by 12.7% to are managed by each of the underwriting business units to 4.1 tonnes 2013: 4.7 tonnes.
This reduction was driven by ensure that development and performance objectives are both increased employees and a reduced carbon footprint.
This approach helps to ensure that the needs of the The sources of these emissions were as follows: ultimate customer are consistently met, enabling us to achieve 2014 2013 sustainable and profitable growth.
Emission source CO2 tonnes CO2 tonnes Gas 5 1 Our procurement team seeks to establish professional third Electricity 994 1,089 party agreements that recognise and value the contribution Business air travel 887 848 made by our suppliers.
Our procurement team is also involved Business travel other 4 2 in all major purchasing and contract decisions to ensure Total carbon footprint 1,890 1,940 positive supplier relationship management throughout the life of the contract.
We seek to pay all valid supplier invoices in a Number of employees at 31 December timely manner.
excluding all non-executive directors 466 413 Environmental responsibility Carbon footprint per employee 4.1 4.7 During 2014 we recycled 26.0 tonnes of paper waste 2013: 30.0 tonnes.
We sent approximately 158.3 tonnes of general waste to energy recycling 2013: 72 tonnes, recycled 8.2 tonnes of glass 2013: 3.6 tonnes, 25.8 tonnes of cardboard 2013: 20.4 tonnes and 3.3 tonnes of food waste 2013: 2.4 tonnes.
In 2014, in conjunction with our building managers, we continued to work hard to eliminate the waste sent to landfill.
We continue to use a business dining and internal hospitality provider that is committed to the principles of sustainable food procurement.
It recognises that it is important to the future wellbeing of the UK that farming communities are supported and able to contribute to its supply chains.
GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 69 CONTENTS GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE This section explains how the composition and organisation of the BOARD OF DIRECTORS 70 entitys governance structures supports the achievement of the entitys objectives.
It also outlines how our Board and Board Committees CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 72 operate and perform.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT 78 This section sets out our Directors remuneration policy.
It also sets AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 80 out amounts awarded to Directors and provides details on the link RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE REPORT 85 between the Groups performance and Directors remuneration.
UNDERWRITING COMMITTEE REPORT 88 INVESTMENT COMMITTEE REPORT 90 REMUNERATION REPORT 92 DIRECTORS REPORT 109 Board of Directors Underwriting Committee Report This section introduces our Directors and sets out their roles at Brit, This report explains the role of the Committee and explains its their background and areas of expertise.
It discusses how the Committee monitors underwriting performance, reviews underwriting plans and assesses Corporate Governance Report new products.
This report, introduced by the Group Chairman, explains our governance framework, including the role and effectiveness of the Board.
It also Investment Committee Report explains our compliance with the Corporate Governance Code.
This report explains the role of the Committee and explains its activities during the year.
It specifically comments on the Committees Nomination Committee Report role in monitoring investment strategy, performance, investment risk This report explains the role of the Committee and explains its management and asset liability management.
It also comments on the activities during the year.
It comments on Board diversity, Board Committees interaction with external investment managers.
Remuneration Report Audit Committee Report This report sets out the principles and policy we apply to remuneration This report highlights areas that the Committee has reviewed during the for our executive Director and to explain how we have applied these year and reports back to shareholders the significant financial reporting in 2014.
The report demonstrates how our remuneration policy is issues arising and judgements made in connection with the preparation of aligned to our strategic priorities by supporting the retention of the the Companys Financial Statements.
It also explains how the Committee executive Director and rewarding him for outperformance.
has assisted the Board in reviewing the Companys internal control environment, how it has provided assurance to the Board that the Annual Directors Report Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable view of the business This report sets out other information of interest to shareholders.
It and how it has assisted the Board in assessing the Companys longer-term includes information on our significant shareholders, the Directors prospects.
It also explains what the Committee has done to review the responsibility statement and Directors statement on going concern effectiveness of both internal and external audits.
Risk Oversight Committee Report This report explains the role of the Committee and explains its activities during the year.
It comments on our risk management framework, the progress made towards implementation of Solvency II, the development of our internal model, emerging risks and the role it plays in challenging the management team across all areas of the business.
