36 The Strategic Report Performance OUR PERFORMANCE AS A RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS As a group, we do business responsibly and sustainably.
Our Better We are also developing additional products and solutions that help Future programme underpins this, by making sure our people, corporate customers reduce their energy consumption, such as BT networks and technology work together to deliver the best Inbound Calling.
outcomes for our business, society and the environment.
We are constantly trying to reduce our environmental impacts through We have invested 27m directly in society, made up of a mixture of better product stewardship.
In partnership with the University of cash, time volunteered and in-kind contributions: equating to 1% Cambridge Engineering Design Centre, we have developed a of our 2012 13 adjusted profit before tax.
This brings our total Designing Our Tomorrow DOT checklist.
This is now being rolled out investment to over 165m over the past six years an average of across our own product development teams and to suppliers through 1.3% of profit before tax each year.
the Better Future Supplier Forum to inuence the manufacture, use and disposal of our products.
BT Group plc has set a Better Future vision and goal for 2020 in each of the following three priority areas: Connected Society, Net Improving Lives Good and Improving Lives.
Achieving these will help BT and our This year we helped generate over 85m towards good causes customers to grow sustainably in the years to come.
meaning, since 2012 13, we have achieved 146m cumulatively towards our target of 1bn by 2020.
Our operational support of Connected Society major telethons and appeals was the biggest contributor to this.
In the UK 6.6 out of ten people can now access bre-based Over 41m was raised over BT platforms in support of the Children products and services this is equivalent to two thirds of premises in Need and Disasters Emergency Committees Philippines appeal passed.
We are well on our way to achieving our 2020 goal of nine following typhoon Haiyan.
Through our regional Get IT Together projects, in Thousands of people and organisations use our portfolio of services 2013 14 we helped over 10,800 people to participate in courses for charities, with over 5,800 charities and individuals using the that have helped them to gain confidence and competence in using MyDonate for Fundraising service to raise a further 16.4m for the internet.
We also announced a three-year partnership, The Right Click: We supported Comic Relief by providing the communication Internet Safety Matters, with UNICEF, to provide practical advice infrastructure for its appeals, as well as through employee about online child safety to up to 35,000 teachers, parents and volunteering and our inspiring celebrity challenges.
This year during children in the UK, supported by BT volunteers.
Outside the UK, our Sport Relief, a major sport initiative from Comic Relief, we Connecting Africa project provided satellite connectivity to 19 galvanised our people to get active, raise money and change lives.
This has provided access to BT volunteers powered Sport Reliefs fundraising efforts by information and critical services such as healthcare for around coordinating 87 call centres and handling 234,000 calls.
Through 95,000 people and we expect that up to 570,000 people living in in-kind support and donations from BT and our employees, our the villages and surrounding areas could indirectly benefit.
Sport Relief activities contributed 9m with our MyDonate platform In September we published the findings of our research partnership processing online donations for the first time.
with Scope in the Enabling Technology report which highlighted Jointly with Comic Relief, we also created a brand new charitable how technology can work better for the UKs 11m people with initiative, The Supporters Club.
So far we have raised more than disabilities.
We are implementing its findings.
2m to help improve young peoples lives in the UK and worldwide Net Good using the unique power of sport.
This year we helped our customers reduce their carbon emissions Volunteering is central to what it means to work at BT our people by 1.3:1 the end-to-end carbon impact of our business have been giving up their time and applying their expertise in as measured in MtCO e. This was an improvement on last year, 2 support of communities for decades and they continue to do so but we still have some way to go to achieve our 2020 goal of a today with great enthusiasm and dedication.
volunteering makes our people proud to work for BT and is an We can achieve this goal at the same time as benefiting our own important part of being a responsible and sustainable business business.
Reducing the end-to-end carbon impact of our business leader.
As a result, over 46,000 days of volunteering were recorded can also reduce our operating costs.
This year we achieved a 3% by over 13,600 BT people, representing an in-kind contribution of reduction in our global energy consumption, saving the business over 14m, and supporting over 1,300 charities worldwide.
Reporting the revenue associated with the Net Good portfolio highlights the connection between our business and our positive impact on society and the environment.
This year the products and servcies for which we have calculated a carbon abatement benefit for our customers generated revenues of 3.1bn globally.
Our product inclusion criteria and methodology is endorsed by the Carbon Trust and further details are available on our Better Future website and in our Better Future report.
Our product innovations also drove a decrease in emissions from the equipment we sell our customers.
For example, our latest BT Home Hub is more energy efficient than the equipment it replaces.
The Strategic Report Performance 37 Our Better Future goals are based on a long-term commitment until go.
Out of our seven foundation performance indicators below, we the year 2020 have made progress against five of the seven, but we have failed to The results below demonstrate that we are focused on our delivery meet two, specically relating to customer service and ethical to achieve our Better Future goals but there is still a long way to trading supply chain review.
Our 2020 Goals 2013 14 target 2013 14 result 2014 15 target Better Future Connected Society 5.8 10 people can 6.6 10 people can Continue to deliver Programme More than 9 10 people in the UK will access bre-based access bre-based against 9 10 target 2020 goals have access to bre-based products products and services products and services and services Net Good 1.1:1 achieved against 1.3:1 achieved against Continue to deliver Helping our customers reduce carbon our goal of 3:1 our goal of 3:1 against 3:1 target emissions by at least 3 times the endto-end carbon impact of our business Improving Lives Over 63m raised for Over 85m raised for Continue to deliver Using our skills and technology to good causes good causes against 1bn target help generate more than 1bn for good causes Our foundations for being a responsible and sustainable business Our foundations 2013 14 target 2013 14 result 2014 15 target Our Investment in responsible and 1% of PBT invested 1% of PBT invested Maintain 1% of PBT investment sustainable business activities in responsible and invested in responsible sustainable business and sustainable business activities activities Our customers Customer service: Improve RFT to more 1.5% improvement Improve RFT a measure across our entire than recover the decline from 2013 14 customer base in performance level seen in 2012 13 Our employees Employee engagement index: Maintain or improve 3.82 5 achieved Maintain or improve a measure of our relationship from 2012 13 from 2013 14 with our employees performance, outcome performance was 3.69 5 Sickness absence rate: Reduce or maintain 2.10% calendar days Maintain or improve % of calendar days lost to 2.13% calendar days lost in sickness from 2013 14 sickness absence lost in sickness performance Ethical performance: Maintain or improve 4.29 5 achieved Maintain or improve a measure of our employees from 2012 13 from 2013 14 awareness and training performance, outcome performance was 4.19 5 Our suppliers Ethical trading: 100% follow-up 97% follow-up within 100% follow-up a measure of our supply chain review: within three months, three months within three months, with specic focus on Human Rights for all those suppliers for all those suppliers identied as high identied as high medium risk medium risk Our CO emissions: By December 2020 reduce 79% net reduction in net Continue to 2 environmental a measure of our climate our net CO e emission intensity CO e emission intensity deliver against 2 2 impact change impact by 80% against 1996 97 levels against 1996 97 levels 80% target Evolving measurement of our progress The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on At BT we are keen to move beyond volume-based metrics to 15 May 2014. understand and track the impact and value of our business.
This year we have assessed a number of social impact methodologies to By order of the Board understand how we can best measure the signicance of what being online brings to the individuals, businesses and governments that we serve.
Moving forward this will enable us, for the first time, to start measuring the social impact of our digital skills programmes Tony Chanmugam and our wider investment in broadband.
