The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 7 are appropriate and will deliver products and services that are the Community.
Our declared disability rate is 5%, with 8% of this attractive to customers.
years graduate recruits registered as disabled.
We are confident our business model is sustainable and that we will We are listed in The Times Top 50 places for Women to Work.
Our be able to deliver value both today and in the future.
gender diversity policy for the BT Board is to aim to have at least 25% female representation.
For most of the year we had at least 30% OUR PEOPLE female representation on the Board.
At the year end this had declined Every day our people touch the lives of millions, providing services to 22% two female directors out of a Board of nine following the that help customers get the most out of their work and personal lives.
retirement of Patricia Hewitt in March 2014.
We will look to address We invest in our people so they can succeed and contribute to our this in line with our diversity policy.
Below Board level, 573 20% of our senior executives are female with 2,353 80% male.
We are focused on appointing more women Believing in what we do into operational roles at senior manager level.
Across the company A clear purpose guides everyones contribution in BT.
By bringing 18,400 21% of our people are women and 69,400 79% are male together the best networks, technology and products and services for our in a sector that has traditionally been male-dominated.
customers, we use the power of communications to make a better world.
During the year we updated our corporate values to reect what Staying safe and well really matters to our people.
Teams are increasingly using these We have made significant improvements against our key health, values to guide the way they work, creating a culture that encourages safety and wellbeing targets.
At the year end, our annualised lost everyone to get involved in changing things for the better.
time injury LTI rate was 1.93 incidents per million working hours compared with 2.29.
A global workforce At 31 March 2014, we had 87,800 full-time equivalent employees in During the year we received the BRAKE Road Safety Charitys Fleet 61 countries 72,200 of them based in the UK.
We are the 15th Safety Analysis and Action Award.
This recognises our extensive risk largest employer in the UK, supporting its economy by providing jobs assessment, data analysis and interventions strategy for road safety.
Over a ten-year period our approach has resulted in a halving of collision rates and cost, across a eet of more than 34,000 vehicles.
We recruited around 8,100 people in the year.
Of these, around We have continued to support our people to deal with the ups and 4,800 were in the UK and include around 1,400 engineers 500 of downs of everyday life.
We trained around 950 people managers in whom are former armed-forces services personnel and over 600 the year to enhance their own personal resilience and support that of apprentices.
We created over 500 new roles in the UK which were their teams.
Resilience is associated with lower levels of absence, previously undertaken by agency or offshore resources.
And outside increased productivity, greater engagement and better wellbeing the UK we insourced a further 2,200 roles.
With increased awareness of managing mental health, increased our workforce by 60% in the high-growth regions that we managers are better equipped to support people facing these issues.
are investing in, with around 500 recruited into our global The improvements we have made have been demonstrated in both development centres in India and Malaysia.
standardised psychological measures and our own Wellbeing Index.
Overall, the recruitment of new people was offset by reductions as a result of natural attrition, our restructuring programme and Learning and development efficiencies.
We retained accreditation against the Investors in People standard for the 15th consecutive year.
Conferred by the UK Commission for We continue to build a pipeline of future talent and plan to recruit Employment & Skills, it confirms people management excellence around around 900 graduates and apprentices in 2014 15.
And as part of the key areas of strategic planning, culture and communication, Movement to Work, a UK employer-led initiative backed by the effective management, managing performance and developing people.
Princes Trust and the Government, we are offering up to 1,500 work placements to 18-24 year-olds.
The BT Academy develops professional skills across four faculties: leadership, customer, business and technical.
Around 5,000 leaders When a role is no longer needed, our transition centre helps the from senior executives to junior managers have learnt new ways to individual learn new skills and nd alternative roles in the business, lead, coach and support their teams.
A global programme is giving rather than being made redundant.
This year around 2,500 people our frontline people the skills, tools and techniques to improve the were retrained and redeployed in this way.
Diversity at work Communication and involvement Proactive policies on inclusion and diversity help us deliver against Our people cited a 22 percentage point improvement in the internal the needs of a varied customer and supplier base.
More than 6,000 of communications they received over the last three years.
our people belong to internal employee networks that reect the We keep our people informed about company results, major diversity of our workforce: women: ethnic minorities: disability: business decisions and other things that affect them using a variety lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender: Christian: Muslim: and carers.
Leaders regularly connect with their teams As a Two Ticks employer awarded by Jobcentre Plus to UK through roundtable meetings, town hall debates, site visits, employers who have made certain commitments we have well webcasts and blogs.
established policies and practices to support the recruitment, development and retention of people with disabilities.
Applicants We consult our people or their representatives on a regular basis, with disabilities or long-term health conditions and who meet the taking their views into account on decisions likely to affect them.
In minimum criteria for the vacancy are automatically put through to the UK, we recognise two main trade unions.
The Communication the first stage of the recruitment process.
Workers Union represents people in engineering, administrative and clerical positions.
Prospect represents managerial and professional We are rated in the Top 10 private sector organisations for both people.
We also operate a pan-European works council, the BT ethnicity and gender diversication as benchmarked by Business in European Consultative Committee.
