28 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Sustainability Marketplace We are committed to building our As an investment company, we are committed to a long term business for the long term.
To this investment strategy and to maintaining effective relationships with those companies in which we invest.
We often hold a board end, we consider the impact of our seat in our significant investments and use this to maintain business on the marketplace, a close relationship with managements of those companies.
Additionally, we hold frequent meetings with managements workplace and environment.
and review internal documents, such as management accounts and reports.
We also make considered use of our voting rights.
As a consequence of our involved investment style, we would expect to vote in line with management recommendations, but are prepared to abstain or vote against recommendations where we consider they are not in the interests of our shareholders.
We continue to meet with our shareholders and listen to any concerns they may have.
Workplace Caledonia has in place a set of polices intended to protect employees from unlawful discrimination, offer them a working environment where they have a right to be treated fairly, with consideration and respect, and support high standards of conduct and performance.
These policies assist in ensuring that the company meets applicable health and safety standards and treats disabled employees in accordance with its statutory obligations.
These policies are communicated to employees by way of a staff handbook provided at the time of joining, with periodic updates thereafter.
In addition to a grievance procedure, which allows employees to raise concerns either formally or informally, there are formal whistleblowing arrangements in place, which enable members of staff to raise any issue of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct of the companys business, confidentially and independently of line management.
A formal performance appraisal process, through which employees may be set objectives on an annual basis and their achievement against those objectives assessed at the end of the year, is intended to ensure that employees have a clear view of their performance and the ability to develop their potential within the company through additional training where necessary.
Together with team meetings and company-wide briefings, this provides staff with the opportunity to be closely involved in the success of the business.
Strategic report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 29 Equality and diversity Greenhouse gas emissions We believe that a diverse workforce will create the optimum Caledonias carbon footprint has been estimated in line with environment in which our business will thrive and grow.
the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard GHG Protocol and Defra guidelines.
We are committed to creating an inclusive environment where our employees can develop and contribute fully.
The sources of greenhouse gas emissions shown in the table below are from the companies included in the consolidated In formulating and implementing our employment and financial statements.
We do not have responsibility for any recruitment policies, we ensure that they are at all times emission sources from companies that are not included in compliant with all relevant legislation.
Recruitment, our consolidated financial statements.
development and promotion are based solely on suitability for the job to be done.
We will not discriminate on the basis GHG emissions of gender, sexual orientation, age, race, nationality, disability Operational scope Source of GHG emissions in year Unit or political or religious belief.
Scope 1 Combustion of fuel 61 Tonnes CO e 2 direct emissions and operation of The table below provides the gender split at different levels facilities within the business.
Air conditioning Male Female refrigerant loss Number % Number % Company car use Board 10 100 Scope 2 Electricity 176 Tonnes CO e 2 Senior managers 8 80 2 20 indirect emissions purchased for Total workforce 23 51 22 49 own use Scope 3 Business travel 238 Tonnes CO e 2 Environment indirect emissions Caledonias environmental impact is limited.
However, any Total 475 Tonnes CO e 2 measures taken to reduce this impact demonstrate the Key performance Scope 1 and 2 9.9 Tonnes CO e 2 companys commitment to improve the environment and can indicator normalised to per FTE have direct benefits through reductions in costs for energy full time employee and consumables.
A number of measures have been and will equivalent be taken in this area: encouragement of the use of electronic communications to save paper, printing consumables and energy usage of video-conferencing and telephone conference calls rather than travelling to meetings recycling of office waste, used paper and other consumables.
