Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 34 Sustainability Report Our business model, outlined on pages 8 to 11, creates and sustains value through investment in our resources, our services and our people, helping us to achieve our strategic objectives to deliver long-term sustainable growth and generate strong returns.
However, the success of our strategy is influenced not just by our internal value creation, but also by the way we interact with our stakeholders and the external environment.
As a financial services organisation, the ESG risks faced by the group are relatively limited but we constantly monitor and refine our risk management processes to ensure we perform ethically and with integrity.
In 2013 our primary focus was on our contribution to communities and our charitable work.
In 2014 alongside our charitable work, we have also made good progress in the areas of responsible finance, ethical business practice, community investment and team member engagement, having benefited from our ongoing focus on relationships, service and expertise.
The Executive Committee ExCo and board receive updates throughout the year on ESG related matters, At Close Brothers, we aim to provide our clients with particularly on employees, governance and responsible finance.
The group a safe, trustworthy and capable financial partner has a corporate responsibility committee, chaired by the head of through the economic cycle by maintaining the human resources who sits on ExCo, highest standards of practice in dealing with that focuses particularly on our charity and community work.
Employee environmental, social and governance ESG related key risk indicators are reviewed issues.
We achieve this not only by maintaining a by local risk and compliance committees and reported to the group strong financial position, but by investing in our risk and compliance committee on a monthly basis, with overall oversight by employees, considering environmental and social ExCo and the divisional chief practices in our business strategies and operating executives.
Additionally, our environmental policies are monitored responsibly to protect natural resources.
Our focus locally by the facilities department of on developing sustainable business practices will each business, also overseen by ExCo.
ensure our future continuity and success, enabling us to continue to provide the support that small businesses and individuals need.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 35 Employees Employee turnover and retention 90% of employees The group aims to create a culture of At 31 July 2014, the group employed integrity and engagement, recognising 2,776 2013: 2,650 people, up 5% in surveyed satisfied or that investment in our employees the year.
very satisfied working development promotes talent retention.
Underpinning our culture, our strong We have developed new initiatives in for Close Brothers.
governance framework and approach the year to support our employee to risk management ensures that our retention.
For example, our Emerging strategy is aligned with our ethical Leaders Programme in the Banking values and that we are promoting good division was established to improve the The board is also seeking shareholder business practices throughout the succession pipeline by providing approval at the 2014 AGM for the organisation.
talented individuals with development establishment of an all employee share and networking opportunities.
This will incentive plan further detail is provided Strategic priorities be rolled out across the rest of the on page 66 of the Report of the Board Promote employee engagement and group in 2015. on Directors Remuneration.
provide opportunities for talent development.
We also encourage promotion from Occupational health and safety Ensure all stakeholders are treated within, making opportunities for internal We recognise that better working fairly, operating with the highest career progression available on our conditions enhance our employees ethical standards at all times.
intranet, which supports our retention morale and productivity, while strategy and promotes career protecting their wellbeing and the Supporting policies development internally.
In the year 4% groups reputation.
Given the nature of We are committed to promoting of jobs across the group were placed our business, our injury rates are low, good ethical and governance with internal candidates and 15% of and in 2014, there were no RIDDOR standards and comply with the UK new hires in our Banking division were reportable accidents or fatalities across Corporate Governance Code.
the group and no enforcement notices Each of our divisions has an equal were received by any of our divisions.
opportunity policy to promote a Employee benefits culture of diversity amongst the We aim to provide a comprehensive Talent development workforce.
and competitive range of benefits to The group is committed to creating a our employees, supporting our culture of learning and development 2014 progress recruitment and retention as well as that enables our people to maximise Employee engagement seeking to improve the overall health their potential.
The group actively promotes employee and wellbeing of our staff.
These engagement through several initiatives include: Each year employees receive annual including local focus groups across the Pension and matched funding, made performance reviews and discuss their businesses.
For example, the Banking available to all permanent and career goals with their managers.
This division successfully piloted the fixed-term employees.
supports their professional Banking Innovation Network in 2014: a Additional benefits such as life development while ensuring individual web-based platform accessible by all assurance, childcare vouchers, a remuneration is aligned with the Banking division employees, intended cycle to work scheme, discounted groups strategic objectives.
medical health assessments, and We also provide tools and initiatives, season ticket loans.
Every two years we also conduct a including a mentoring programme, and An Employee Assistance Programme comprehensive employee opinion training in management, personal providing confidential support and survey.
The results from the latest effectiveness and communication information on a wide variety of survey in 2013 identified that 90% of skills, in addition to training on everyday issues.
our employees surveyed were satisfied regulation.
Our employees completed A Save as You Earn scheme or very satisfied working for Close on average four hours of this training At 31 July 2014 approximately one Brothers, with significant improvements during the 2014 financial year.
third 31 July 2013: one third of UK noted since the 2011 survey, principally based employees were in career development and Our school leavers initiative, Aspire, participating.
continues to build on the success of its first year in 2013.
This structured training programme and opportunities for career progression are attracting high calibre individuals to the group.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 36 Sustainability Report continued At 31 July 2014, women made up 30% of our board.
10% increase in charitable donations in 2014.
We have also launched a graduate Gender Diversity scheme within the Banking division Male Female and at our group head office.
Our new 1 Number of board directors 7 3 intake joined in September 2014 and 1 Number of directors of subsidiaries 59 4 we will be recruiting more school 2 Number of senior managers, other than board directors 24 9 leavers and graduates for the September 2015 intake.
Number of employees, other than board directors and senior managers 1,521 1,164 Diversity and equal opportunity 1 Includes non-executive directors excluded from Close Brothers Group plc headcount calculations.
Through our equal opportunity policy, 2 Senior employees identified as Material Risk Takers who are not directors or subsidiary directors.
we provide a framework for consistent fair treatment of employees regardless Responsible Finance We have implemented policies and of race, gender, age, disability, sexual The group has a wide range of policies procedures in accordance with orientation, nationality or religion.
to establish best practice and ensure anti-money laundering regulations our relationships with all stakeholders and allocate a dedicated money At 31 July 2014, women made up 42% are underpinned by trust and laundering reporting officer to each of our workforce.
Our board has three transparency.
In particular, we aim to regulated company to ensure female directors, equal to 30%, and our reinforce our strong relationships by relevant issues are reported.
ExCo has three female members, providing additional support to the local All staff receive regular training to accounting for 38% of the committee.
communities where we do business.
raise awareness of their This is higher than the target set by Through volunteering and charitable responsibilities.
Lord Davies for women to make up donations, we are benefiting our The groups whistle-blowing policy 25% of FTSE 100 boards by 2015. communities, while improving the aims to protect employees who The board is committed to ensuring groups reputation and enhancing our expose misconduct.
a diverse pool of candidates is ability to attract and retain high quality Our anti-bribery and corruption considered for any vacancies that may employees.
policy, under the Bribery Act 2010, arise and that they are filled by the sets out the group standards and most qualified candidates based on Strategic priorities best practice for business conduct merit, with due regard to the benefits of Ensure all employees are aligned to and is overseen by the groups diversity.
our culture of putting clients first.
compliance, risk and internal audit Continue to support our local functions 24% of our employees are under 30 communities through charitable The policy is communicated to years old with 60% aged between 30 initiatives.
staff at induction and update and 50, while 16% are above 50 years training is provided periodically.
Supporting policies The group has a privacy policy in The group has a comprehensive place, which is reviewed periodically policy on conduct risk and treating and set out in client contracts, to customers fairly that is overseen by ensure the protection and correct the group head of compliance and treatment of client data in implemented in each division.
accordance with the requirements of the Data Protection Act 1998.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 37 2014 progress Cancer Research UK are delighted to have been Conduct risk Our client focus and board led culture chosen as Close Brothers lead charitable partner.
promote positive client outcomes and We are grateful for their continued support and ensure our clients interests are appropriately protected.
have enjoyed working with their different Product design and governance is businesses, particularly during their charity week managed through the risk and in May.
Together we have found a number of compliance committees and existing products are reviewed on a regular innovative ways to raise money in the year, basis to ensure that they remain fit for purpose.
New products are only helping to support our fight against cancer.
introduced after a rigorous process which considers risks that can arise Summary of Charitable Giving throughout the products life cycle.
2014 2013 Change Total charitable donations 251,000 228,000 10% Complaints handling 1 We seek to ensure transparency in Matched funding contribution 54% 24% dealing with all stakeholders and GAYE participation rate 11% 10% encourage high standards of openness 1 The group continues to provide matched funding, donating an additional 50% of all amounts raised, up to a and accountability.
Client feedback and maximum of 250 per person.
complaints are taken seriously and we are committed to providing timely Tax policy Charitable giving responses and taking prompt The group aims to adopt a responsible Following the 2013 employee opinion corrective action if we have made an approach to financial management and survey, Cancer Research UK CRUK error.
We also seek to identify the root its tax policy reflects this.
We believe continues to be the groups lead cause of complaints and make our tax liabilities should reflect the charitable partner, although a number consequent improvements to our commercial substance of the groups of additional charities are also processes.
activities and, through this approach, supported by our local businesses, we maintain a low risk tax profile.
including Macmillan Cancer Support, Each division operates a complaints Substantially all the groups trading the Motor Neurone Disease charity and handling process, accessible to all remains within the UK, subject to UK The Princes Trust.
clients and we are continually seeking corporation tax.
Over the last five to improve the quality of the service we years, the groups tax expense has During 2014, the group significantly provide.
For example, a customer moderately exceeded the headline UK increased its charitable donations, 1 service programme was developed to corporation tax rate.
helping to raise funds for CRUK and reinforce the Banking divisions build awareness of the work they are employees understanding of their Human rights doing to beat cancer.
The total amount individual roles in putting customers The board gives due regard to human raised for charitable causes increased first.
rights considerations, as defined under by 10% to 251,000 2013: 228,000 the European Convention on Human through ongoing fundraising activities, Supplier relationships Rights and the UK Human Rights Act supported by our inaugural charity All transactions are settled in 1998. week.
Employees from across the accordance with the applicable terms group were actively encouraged to and conditions of business agreed with Community participate in a range of events held the counterparty.
An outsourcing policy Various initiatives take place across the during charity week, and throughout is maintained across the group to group to support the local communities the year, including sponsored fitness ensure that the risks associated with where we do business.
For example, initiatives, dress down days, baking the use of third party services are we continue to run our successful competitions and quizzes.
managed appropriately and meet our schools programmes, where our regulatory obligations, with controls in employees volunteer to help children Employees are also encouraged to place to protect our clients.
with their reading at a school in east donate to charities of their own choice London.
Additionally, the groups through the Give As You Earn GAYE Safety and privacy Matching for Voluntary Time scheme payroll giving scheme.
The group To maintain our status as a trusted supports employees in their local maintained its Payroll Giving Quality merchant banking group, we take the voluntary work, by making a donation Mark Gold Award for the fourth necessary steps to safeguard client to their chosen charity based on the consecutive year in recognition of the data and protect our systems from number of hours the employee spends ongoing strong participation rate of failure and cyber attack.
continually investing in our IT infrastructure to enhance our systems We are also working with The Princes and controls and we have upgraded Foundation for Children and the Arts to our data centres.
run a national art competition for primary school aged children.
1 After adjustments for impairments and business disposals, associate profits recognised on a post-tax basis, the impact of write-down of deferred tax assets, and a small impact from profits subject to overseas tax rates.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 38 Sustainability Report continued 62% head office waste recycled in 2014.
Environment 2014 progress We are also focused on providing more We are aware of our responsibility to Energy consumption sustainable products and services to minimise our environmental impact by Our commitment to reducing GHG our clients.
Acknowledging the rapid protecting natural resources and emissions determines how we manage growth of the renewable energy operating sustainably.
We do not our office facilities, the contractors we market, Close Brothers Leasing in our believe the group has a material work alongside and also extends to the Banking division has developed exposure to environmental risks or products and services that we provide.
specialist green teams who provide opportunities, as we require limited funding for projects such as onshore natural resources to carry out our In 2014, our Banking division wind farms and waste-to-energy business activities.
completed the integration of a new, plants.
In 2013, we were awarded more energy efficient provider across Green Lessor of the Year at the Our direct environmental impact arises 19 offices following an extensive review Leasing World Awards in recognition of from our office network in the UK and in 2013.
By the end of 2015, all of the the quality service we provide in Europe, from staff travel, and indirectly divisions sites will be supplied from helping our customers find funding from our supply chain.
By focusing on renewable sources.
At the groups solutions for sustainable products.
reducing our emissions and waste head office, a new management across all these areas, we are information system implemented in Waste reduction and recycling protecting against climate change while 2013, has enabled more accurate data In addition to our energy management making efficiency savings for the monitoring.
We also require our projects, the group also seeks to business.
Each business manages its mechanical and engineering improve the efficiency of its waste resources and recycling locally.
contractors to prioritise energy reduction, water and paper usage.
management, and we review the Initiatives including replacing individual Strategic priorities services they provide to us, in order to desk bins with central recycling Reduce our energy consumption by determine where further efficiencies stations, encouraging double sided recording and monitoring our can be introduced.
printing and delivering board and other greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
papers electronically to staff via tablets, Minimise our impact on the With the help of an external specialist, have all contributed to a reduction in environment by reducing waste.
advising on the energy markets and our waste in 2014. most appropriate green energy rates, Supporting policies we aim to continue to reduce our GHG Data is collected by third party In line with the GHG protocol emissions.
In addition to reviewing our contractors and monitored and framework, we have reported our providers, small changes to the reviewed by the head office facilities 2014 and 2013 GHG emissions.
management of our offices have made department to identify areas for a difference.
In 2014, 62% of waste initiatives implemented this year in the was recycled at the groups groups head office included changing headquarters, which avoided 276 our main stairwell lighting to LED lamps cubic metres of landfill and saved 1,654 and also renewing the buildings plant trees.
management system to ensure that it continues to be run cost effectively.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 39 8% reduction in GHG GHG Emissions Summary by Division emissions per GHG emissions tCO e 2 4,500 employee in 2014.
GHG Emissions Summary tCO e 2 Scope GHG emissions source 2014 2013 Scope 1 Fuel Buildings 154 155 Fuel Owned vehicles 2,675 2,635 Scope 2 Electricity Excluding Scope 3 T&D losses 3,691 3,936 Average number of employees 2,731 2,601 Total GHG emissions 6,520 6,726 Total per employee 2.39 2.59 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our offices also report their Scope 3 Calculation 2014 performance emissions for water and waste each We have gathered data on a quarterly In line with the GHG protocol quarter, where this information is basis since 2013, working with an framework, we have calculated the available to facilitate continued independent third party GHG GHG emissions associated with our performance monitoring.
Scope 1 assessing the materiality of fugitive gas increases our confidence in the consumption across the group, we includes fuel emissions from buildings accuracy of our data and will enable us and company vehicles, and Scope 2 to monitor our GHG emissions have excluded them from this years includes our emissions from electricity.
performance on an ongoing basis.
GHG emissions report, but will review their significance for future disclosure In 2014, our total GHG emissions were Our total GHG emissions are reported during 2015. e, equating to 2.39 tCO e 6,520 tCO as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 2 2 per employee, down 8% overall and e and are calculated in line with tCO The Strategic Report was approved by 2 0.20 per employee since 2013. the GHG protocol framework.
In the board and signed on its behalf by: As expected, given the nature of Close addition to reporting our total Brothers business activities, the largest emissions, we have also disclosed the Preben Prebensen source of GHG emissions in 2014 was emissions per employee as an intensity Chief Executive metric to enable a comparable analysis our Scope 2 electricity consumption.
Given its relative size in terms of in future disclosures.
23 September 2014 profitability and headcount, our Outlook Banking division contributes the majority of our GHG emissions.
A full We will continue to monitor and report breakdown of our 2014 GHG our GHG emissions, working to emissions is shown above.
improve our energy efficiency across our businesses.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 40 Governance 42 Board of Directors 44 Executive Committee 45 Report of the Directors 47 Corporate Governance 60 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 41
