Corporate responsibility and sustainability As a Group, Bodycote is committed to acting responsibly as a good corporate citizen, to reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities and to providing our employees with a safe working environment.
28 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Bodycotes stakeholder model shows how its interactions on various levels contribute towards socioeconomic growth and development.
These exchanges, based on mutually beneficial relationships, provide the basis for the Groups growth and sustainability, which in return provides benefits to employees, investors, suppliers, customers, the public sector and wider society.
Investors Funders Capital is rewarded through dividends and share price.
Capital Return on Funds Investment Employees Customers 5,800 employees Our services are provided knowledge, expertise and skill are a major part of the aerospace, defence, Groups intangible value.
energy and general 234.9m was paid out as Productivity Sales industrial industries.
Remuneration Services Bodycote: Provides thermal processing services that improve material properties such as strength, durability and corrosion resistance, which in turn...
Improves the lifetime and Products performance of products Supports businesses and protects lives Payment Suppliers Suppliers profit from the location of the Group in Society local communities and from the Groups need for Bodycote generates wealth long-term stable supply for society and contributes partnerships.
to socioeconomic development through its Services Taxes sustainable business practices, investments Public Sector Tax payments fund services available to the public.
In total employer social taxes, net VAT, corporate and other transactional taxes amount to 121.3m for the year.
com 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Our approach 1 Accident frequency Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns through the provision of selected thermal processing services that 1.9 1.8 are highly valued by our customers and to achieve this in a safe 1.7 1.7 1.5 working environment, while continually seeking to minimise the impact on the environment.
Bodycote is dedicated to improving the management of corporate responsibility issues and is implementing policies and initiatives to achieve this goal.
The future success and growth of the Group is 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 intrinsically linked to our ability to ensure the Groups operations are sustainable and that we can nurture and develop our talent.
Our people 2 Carbon footprint The strength of the Group primarily rests in its people and one 3 tonne CO e m sales normalised 2 of the key challenges for management is to ensure availability of appropriately qualified people to support its continued growth.
653.4 632.1 Bodycote is fortunate to have a competent and committed 617.4 614.2 international team that is well-respected in technical and business 610.2 circles.
Bodycote invests in the training and development of its people both at local and Group level.
At a local level the Group is committed 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 to providing the appropriate skills and technical training which will allow its employees to operate effectively and safely in their roles and deliver excellent customer service.
At Group level a number of initiatives are currently being rolled out to drive excellence in Water consumption management.
3 3 thousand m m sales normalised A tool to develop further understanding and skill in the area of 1.83 performance management is in place and is being used globally 1.79 1.65 through the management population.
Through communication of 1.56 1.36 clear messages coupled with skills development, the organisation aims to raise the capability of its management population in driving performance.
This initiative is backed by a performance management information system which supports the process.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Bodycotes employment policies are non-discriminatory, complying with all current legislation to engender equal opportunity irrespective of age, race, gender, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, health, disability, marital status, sexual preference, political or Chlorinated solvents philosophical opinions or trade union membership.
Harassment is 3 kg m sales normalised not tolerated.
208.5 Female representation on our Board is currently 14% 2013: 17% 168.4 153.7 and at manager level it is 27% 2013: 23%.
Female representation 136.8 on the Board has decreased due to the appointment of Ian Duncan 108.5 in November 2014, and will increase to 17% when John Biles steps down at the 2015 AGM in April 2015.
Females represent 17% 2013: 17% of our total workforce.
We will increase female representation 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 on the Board if appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise.
2 CO e is carbon dioxide equivalent, which represents the CO release due to 2 2 our energy usage.
3 Normalised statistics restate prior year figures using current year national carbon conversion factors and current year average exchange rates.
30 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Core values Customers and suppliers It is not just important what we do, but how we do it and how Bodycote has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent we behave in our company.
How we operate as a Group and the upon the Groups business.
Suppliers are paid in line with behaviours that we expect from all our employees are expressed in contractual and legal obligations.
Our values represent Bodycote and its people and We endeavour to respond quickly to changing customer demand, our commitment to the company and the business.
to identify emerging needs and to improve service availability and Our Core Values are straightforward and are summarised as quality.
We stay close to our current and potential customers, follows: building long-term relationships.
Honesty and T ransparency Community We are honest and act with integrity.
This is not something we take Bodycote seeks to play a positive role in the local communities for granted.
Bodycote lives by a culture of honest and transparent in which it operates by providing employment opportunities, behaviour, which is at the core of all our business relationships.
and building goodwill and a reputation as a good neighbour and employer.
Respect and Responsibility Responsible business ethics We manage our business with respect, applying an ethical approach All Bodycote personnel are expected to apply a high ethical to our dealings with those with whom we interact.
We believe standard, consistent with an international UK-listed company.
in taking ownership for, and being mindful of the impact of, our Directors and employees are expected to ensure that their personal actions.
interests do not at any time conflict with those of Bodycote.
Creating Value Shareholder employees are advised of and comply with share Creating value is the very essence of our business and needs to be dealing codes.
the focus of our endeavours.
We create value for our customers, Bodycote has systems in place that are designed to ensure our employees and our shareholders.
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and conformity with all relevant codes of business practice.
Furthermore, Bodycote Human rights does not make political donations.
Bodycotes human rights policy is consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global Compacts ten With regard to competition, Bodycote aims to win business in a principles.
The Group does not employ unfair trading methods and it competes vigorously but fairly within the We prohibit forced, compulsory and underage labour and any requirements of the applicable laws.
Employees are prohibited from form of discrimination based on age, race, gender, ethnic origin, either giving or receiving any inducements.
nationality, religion, health, disability, marital status, sexual preference, political or philosophical opinions or trade union Our Open Door Policy has been translated into all languages used membership.
Appropriate mechanisms are in place to minimise the throughout the Group.
The policy allows employees to report their potential for any contravention of these rules.
concern verbally or in writing and in confidence to an independent third party provider, ensuring anonymity.
Reports are transcribed By publicly posting our human rights policy on www.
com, and sent to the Group Head of Risk, who then passes the matter to stakeholders worldwide can alert us to potential breaches of the the appropriate individual in the business to be addressed.
Our internal systems also support compliance with our policy and we have a robust Open Door Line for employees to report Online training courses in respect of Bribery and Competition Law alleged violations of law and or our policies on a confidential basis have been designed and translated into the major languages used and in their own language.
In the jurisdictions in which we employ a throughout the Group.
All relevant employees have completed the majority of our employees, there are laws applicable to many of the interactive courses.
areas dealt with in our human rights policy.
com 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued All reportable incidents and lost time injuries are reviewed during Operational SHE performance executive management meetings.
In addition, the executive Bodycote is committed to continual improvement in our safety, management team reviews incidents which did not result in injury health and environmental performance SHE.
We are committed but were considered to have been serious or to have had a high to complying with all local legislative requirements and additionally potential impact.
All serious incidents and high potential incidents establishing consistent and robust best practices at all of our sites are also reviewed by the Group SHE Committee and are cascaded to deliver consistently high performance across all aspects of SHE within the business as appropriate to ensure that preventive actions management.
Safety and health Environment The nature of the Groups operations is such that employees are A proactive approach to improving energy efficiency means that inevitably exposed to hazards in the workplace.
Bodycote aims to Bodycote has implemented a variety of systems to reduce water manage these hazards and thereby minimise risks to employees and gas consumption, and to re-use heat energy.
The ongoing effort through the deployment of robust safety control systems and to lessen the impact on the environment has resulted in Bodycote procedures, and seeks to establish these at all sites.
seeking ISO 14001 accreditation at all of its facilities.
Bodycote introduced a new online incident reporting and At every stage where Bodycote is involved in the manufacturing management tool in 2013, which enabled more consistent and cycle, our operational aim is to reduce the overall impact on the thorough reporting of workplace injuries, near misses and unsafe environment, not just in our own operations, but also those of our conditions.
Following this there was an increase in the lost time customers.
Bodycote operates modern, efficient equipment, which injury rate frequency LTI rate in 2013 as sites were better able is operated around the clock so as to optimise thermal processing to record and report incidents.
In 2014, the LTI rate fell to 1.7, recycles.
Without Bodycote, many companies would be using older establishing the previous trend of annual improvements in LTI rates in-house technology and running their equipment at reduced in recent years.
Although regrettable and not acceptable, accidents capacity, both of which drain energy resources.
Working with represent learning opportunities and so accurate reporting is an Bodycote enables our customers to commit more easily to carbon essential part of building a robust safety management system.
Accident frequency lost time injury rate Bodycote also reduces the carbon footprint of our customers Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents activities by increasing the lifespan of their products, by improving 200,000 hours approximately 100 man years, divided by the total metallurgical properties and by enhancing corrosion resistance.
number of employee hours worked.
For example, surface treatment technology is widely used in the reclamation of damaged and worn components, offering a costIn addition to encouraging the reporting of work related injuries, effective and energy-efficient alternative to the need to manufacture Bodycote has sought to encourage the reporting of near misses new replacement parts, and treated parts often last up to twenty and unsafe conditions.
This has worked very well since the times longer than the original.
introduction of the new global incident reporting system and a common near miss unsafe condition reporting system at every So, whilst thermal processing is an energy-intensive business, it is operational site.
The much improved reporting of incidents permits a vital part of the manufacturing chain and its use saves the energy us to address hazards before injury occurs.
As our database it consumes many times over.
continues to develop we will be able to analyse and prioritise our safety action programmes more effectively.
32 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Stacking up the bene ts Stacking up the benefits Modern thermal processing techniques have allowed designers and manufacturers to use much lighter materials, such as aluminium and Modern thermal processing techniques have allowed designers and manufacturers to use much lighter titanium, and have significantly prolonged component lifetimes.
Through the effective use of thermal processing, parts can now be lighter and overall component weight reduced, leading to improved efficiency and reduced fuel consumption of products in service.
materials, such as aluminium and titanium, and have significantly prolonged component lifetimes.
the amount by which 40% 4x Bodycotes carburising the average reduction in fuel processes increase the consumption of a 3.5 ton fatigue and wear resistance truck attributable to Bodycote of gears heat treatment of transmission components up to 500% 20% reduction in weight of a the increase in strength Bodycote heat treatment transmission component due can provide to automotive transmission components to the higher strength given by Bodycote heat treating 100% the improvement in a gears lifetime due to a 25% increase in fatigue strength through Bodycote heat treatment Stock code: BOY www.
com 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Greenhouse gas emissions 2014 2013 2013 normalised CO e Intensity CO e Intensity CO e Intensity 2 2 2 emissions ratio emissions ratio emissions ratio ktCO e tCO e m ktCO e tCO e m ktCO e tCO e m 2 2 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 158.2 259.7 154.0 248.7 155.2 264.8 Scope 2 213.4 350.5 220.0 354.9 215.3 367.3 Statutory total 371.6 610.2 374.0 603.6 370.5 632.1 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006.
Normalised statistics restate prior year emissions using current year national carbon conversion factors and current year average exchange rates.
Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions resulting from fuel usage Carbon footprint and water consumption and the operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect The absolute energy usage increased by 0.8%, despite normalised energy emissions resulting from purchased electricity, heat, steam sales increasing by 4.0%.
The total CO e emissions per m sales in 2014 were 610.2 Te 2013: 2 The financial control consolidation approach has been used to report as previously reported 603.6 Te: normalised 632.1 Te.
This method aligns with the reporting scope in the The Groups total CO e emission data is based on Scope 1 and 2 financial statements.
The Group collects electricity and natural gas Scope 2 emissions, as defined by the UK Governments DEFRA, usage information from each facility on a monthly basis.
The Group and data relating to this has been calculated to include countrythen applies the UK Governments Department for Environment, specific electricity conversion factors.
Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA published national carbon conversion factors to calculate the total tonnage of CO e produced.
2 Water usage per m sales decreased by 8.0%.
On a normalised Group operational management actively monitors their monthly basis, water usage per m sales decreased by 12.8%.
CO e emissions reported and the Groups Executive Committee 2 reviews the level of CO e emissions on a monthly basis.
Chlorinated solvent use 2 The use of chlorinated solvents in Bodycotes thermal processing All entities and facilities under financial control are included within activities has been reduced in recent years as aqueous degreasing the disclosure.
Emissions less than 1% of the Groups total CO e 2 facilities have been introduced.
In 2014, the normalised solvent use relating to fugitive emissions and owned vehicles are not significant decreased by 20.7% compared with the previous year.
As such there are no significant omissions from this disclosure.
Cautionary statement The Strategic report has been prepared solely to provide additional ISO 14001 accredited facilities information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and Reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities is the potential for those strategies to succeed.
Compliance with the requirements of ISO 14001 helps to minimise the risk of adverse environmental effects The Strategic report contains certain forward-looking statements.
At the end of 2014, 87% of our operating These statements are made by the directors in good faith based on facilities had achieved ISO 14001 accreditation 2013: 85%.
the information available to them up to the time of their approval of Operational plants which have not yet received accreditation to the this report and such statements should be treated with caution due standard are working towards it, including several of the facilities to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business acquired and constructed during 20122014.
Some older sites, risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information.
which were accredited, have been closed.
This explains why the Approval increase has been relatively modest.
The Group Strategic report of Bodycote plc was approved by the The fall in percentage in 2012 was due to the facilities acquired in Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: that year which had not obtained accreditation.
S. C. Harris Group Chief Executive 26 February 2015 34 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2
