Corporate social responsibility Establishing solid foundations We aspire to be the leading personal and small business general insurer in the UK.
We know that we can succeed only if we earn the trust of our stakeholders.
This means we must consider the impact of each and every decision we make on society, as well as thinking about what it means for our business.
The CSR Advisory Group, formed of senior managers and Approach and priorities chaired by a member of the Executive Committee, ensures CSR is about how we make our money.
We believe being CSR is embedded across our business.
The Sustainability team recognised as a trusted, responsible company can boost supports the Advisory Group and manages CSR activity on our reputation, engage our people and improve a daily basis.
Four key strands sustainable business practices, employee Three key principles drive our approach: experience, community, and energy and environment We acknowledge that we have a responsibility to wider provided the framework for our CSR activity in 2014 and society, including the community and the environment form the basis of this report.
External feedback and our own In our business of providing insurance and other services, benchmarking indicate that we are making good progress.
we seek to operate in a way that demonstrates this Full details of our performance against last years targets as wider responsibility well as our 2015 targets are set out on the Groups website.
This is a collective and individual responsibility Having established solid foundations, for 2015 we have prioritised our focus areas for each strand to sharpen our These principles are at the heart of our CSR Charter.
As shown in the graphic, they are Helping to make Charter defines our commitment to CSR and links to our values, our society safer, Proud to be here, Recognised as part of our code of conduct and policy framework, which guide our communities and Reduce, Reuse, Recycle.
The Charter is published on the Groups website.
of our Executive team is now responsible for each strand.
Sustainable business practices Our approach is overseen by the CSR Committee, Our products, services and operations affect our many see page 66 stakeholders.
Working with Government Our CSR strategy In order to ensure homeowners who are vulnerable to flooding continue to be able to receive affordable home insurance, we are working closely with Government with the aim of introducing the Flood Re programme in 2015.
The Government continued its programme of legal reforms to combat motor insurance fraud during the year.
We have been actively involved in MoJ working groups to ensure a strong industry voice.
Insurance fraud has a big impact on premiums Helping to make our so it is important for customers that we achieve the right society safer outcome from these reforms.
Proud to be here We recognise that there is a general concern about lobbying and we continue to engage only in public policy debates that have an impact on our business or our stakeholders.
We do not support party political interests or make political donations.
Recognised as part Reduce, Reuse and Recycle of our communities 32 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Improving road safety In 2015, we are focusing on developing our supplierIn our Motor division, we developed our telematics management programme, promoting CSR across our strategic propositions.
The technology enables us to better assess each suppliers, and setting challenging targets to reduce our impact persons driving risk.
More importantly, the feedback we give on the environments in which we operate.
drivers encourages safer and more considerate driving, which Living wage we expect will help lead to safer roads.
We have aimed our We ensure all our employees, whether in our offices or our telematics propositions primarily at younger drivers, who are Accident Repair Centres, are paid at or above the living wage.
disproportionately involved in road traffic accidents.
Responsible investment In September 2014, we highlighted a rarely addressed We look to mandate external asset managers who show road safety issue to Government: drink-driving among women.
they are committed to using their market leverage to support Our report, Drinking Amongst British Women and its Impact environmental, social and governance ESG objectives.
on their Pedestrian and Driving Activities, found that the We favour asset managers with an active, ongoing percentage of those convicted of drink driving who are women demonstrable engagement in local or global ESG initiatives had nearly doubled since 1998.
Consequently, the and encourage them to be signatories to the UN Principles Government said it would consider how its anti-drink-driving for Responsible Investment.
However, we do not set ethical THINK!
campaigns might target a female audience.
parameters for our asset managers regarding the issuers in We have a long-standing partnership with Brake, the roadwhich they can or cannot invest.
In 2014, we approved a safety charity.
We have funded Brakes research into driver mandate to invest in UK infrastructure debt.
We require at attitudes and behaviours and used the findings to run a series of least 30% of this mandate, once invested fully, to be allocated media campaigns to raise awareness of topical road safety to  assets, for example, healthcare, issues such as driving under the influence of drink or drugs, long education and government buildings.
journeys and the effects of tiredness, speeding, driving in winter conditions and the importance of proper car maintenance.
Energy and environment We aim to manage our operations in a sustainable way.
We also sponsored Brakes Parliamentarian of the Year Awards, which recognise Members of Parliament who Emissions campaign on road safety issues, and supported its primary Group-wide greenhouse gas GHG emissions are shown in school education programme, Beep Beep!
You can find more details of our emissions in the Directors report on page 96.
Within our network of Accident Repair Centres we operate a fleet of 73 trucks.
During 2014, we fitted all our trucks with Energy use is a key driver of our emissions.
Our Property a safety tool called Tracker Fleet.
This enables us to improve Management team has developed an energy-saving plan.
This route planning, which reduces fuel costs and carbon emissions: involves seeking to optimise our buildings heating, ventilation monitor and avoid traffic hotspots: view truck locations to cut and air-conditioning systems, and a programme of investment down on calls to drivers: and gather driving-behaviour data in energy-efficient devices, such as lighting.
Since April 2014, to raise awareness of road safety issues.
100% of the Groups purchased electricity has been from renewable sources on green tariffs.
Our trucks operate mainly in urban areas with high populations.
The Government has targeted these areas for investment in cycling.
Not surprisingly, accidents involving cyclists and large vehicles, such as trucks, often result in serious injury.
That is why we are trialling a new closed-circuit 85% television CCTV system which improves visibility around Waste recycled from our Home Repair Network claims trucks and warns drivers of potential hazards.
If successful, we will roll out CCTV to the entire fleet in 2015.
2 Greenhouse gas Paper used Suppliers 1 emissions tonnes tonnes Our Ethical Code for Suppliers sets out our approach to managing CSR-related matters across our supply chain.
6.2% 56% Last year, within our Home Repair Network, we partnered with a new supplier, Anyjunk.
Following a claim, Anyjunk offers a man in a van waste collection service that removes and looks to recycle household waste.
Anyjunk reports regularly on what it has collected and recycled.
This greatly improves the transparency of our business.
Anyjunk is currently recycling 85% of the waste collected from our customers.
This excludes discontinued operations, 13 14 13 14 the Groups International division.
Total Group emissions including discontinued operations are 28,759 tonnes 2013: 30,624 tonnes.
Paper used for 2013 has been re-presented for printing and copying at our main office sites.
com 33 29,127 27,308 118 52 Corporate social responsibility continued Ofce waste Gender diversity of all employees % Male 5,598 Waste recycled 40 Female 5,334 Diverted from landll 46 Waste to landll 14 86% Landll diverted Employee feedback remains an important gauge.
During the first half of 2014 we completed a pulse survey, with our new employee opinion survey DiaLoGue taking place in November.
100% DiaLoGue uses a significantly more robust and demanding Electricity from renewable sources on green tariffs measure of engagement that is directly linked to our strategic priorities.
Waste On a like-for-like basis, engagement has increased overall After introducing a new system to sort waste at source, to 76% 2013: 71%.
Using the new and more challenging we recycled an average of 40% of waste from our offices methodology which is aligned to our ambition to be a top and 60% of waste from our UK Accident Repair Centres.
employer we scored 45% which is comparable to industry We diverted 86% of our waste from landfill in 2014 norms.
The survey continues to show that people have a strong including recycling.
understanding of our ambitions, customer focus and a commitment to playing a part in the future growth of the Paper use Group and we will continue to build from this positive base Through our desktop and printing transformation programme, over coming years.
we have replaced our old hardware with new Multi Functional Devices MFDs.
This has significantly reduced energy and Recognition paper use.
The graph on the previous page shows our paper We made a key change to our recognition framework in 2014 consumption.
Our office paper is made from recycled material.
by redesigning our Chief Executive Awards programme.
This All our waste paper is recycled.
provided greater autonomy for business locations to nominate and decide who should receive an award for contributions relating to Employee experience our Company values.
Each location organised the event that best Our people strategy continued its focus on ensuring we have suited their people.
the right capability to deliver our strategic objectives with particular focus on leadership and people managers.
The changes proved a great success, resulting in a more tailored and personal approach, and really positive feedback.
Engagement Since launch, eight ceremonies have been held with over Our business areas focused on capability and engagement plans 2,000 nominations resulting in more than 400 people being to help embed and build upon the transformational activity of the shortlisted and over 100 people being recognised for previous year.
Our aim of involving people and encouraging a their contribution.
sense of ownership led to the continued development of our employee representative bodies and other participative Human rights and diversity approaches as well as key initiatives such as confirming a further Our diversity and inclusion practices are in line with the free share award, see page 155, and enhancements to our Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We continue to work Buy-as-you-Earn scheme effective in early 2015. towards an environment that is based on meritocracy and inclusion, where all employees can develop to their full potential.
This is irrespective of their age, beliefs, disability, ethnic or national origin, gender, gender identity, marital or civil partnership status, political opinion, race, religion or sexual orientation.
Through our Ethical Code for Suppliers, we adhere to the core International Labour Organization standards.
During 2014, our Diversity Network Alliance DNA continued building its visibility throughout the business by, for example, attending London Pride and giving employees the opportunity to learn about a range of diversity topics through informative articles on the company intranet.
DNA also promoted an inclusive culture through a series of networking and educational events, and seminars covering unconscious bias, balancing work and other topics.
34 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Gender diversity of Board members Gender diversity of senior managers Male 102 Male 6 Female 3 Female 27 The ratio of female-to-male employees at 31 December 2014 is shown in the charts.
154,000 Community Employee donations through our We believe how our people feel about working here is linked Payroll Giving scheme to our wider reputation in the community.
That is why we seek to align our giving with our employees interests.
Community and social committees To drive engagement among our people, we operate a network of Community and Social Committees CASCs, 31% The CASCs, which comprise local volunteers, receive central Employees volunteering or fundraising funding and support.
Within an agreed framework, they are in company time free to create their own programme of events and activities for their site, and build relationships with local charities and voluntary organisations.
We also provide grants of 250 to organisations for which We encourage all employees to volunteer individually or as our employees regularly volunteer or raise funds in their a team through our One Day initiative, ideally with a local own time.
organisation with which they already have a connection.
For example, our Logistics team chose to support the charity, In 2014, our employees donated 154,000 through our Carers Leeds.
The team helped the charity to reduce the costs Payroll Giving scheme and we donated a further 94,000 associated with mailing out their newsletters.
We also donated 46,000 in grants.
According to our Employee Opinion Survey, last year 31% Strategic partnerships of staff fundraised or volunteered in Company time.
In addition to our partnership with the road safety charity Brake, see page 33, we have recycled funds received Matched giving from taking on apprentices through the Governments Wage We operate a well-established and generous Payroll Giving Incentive Scheme and used them to help other young scheme that matches regular employee charitable donations up unemployed people through a structured programme of to 50 per month.
In 2014, we achieved Silver in the Payroll support delivered by the leading charity, Groundwork.
Giving Quality Mark and Awards.
The Awards, administered by the Institute of Fundraising and supported by the Cabinet Office, recognise and reward businesses that are committed to Payroll Giving.
