Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Group recognises that it has social and environmental responsibilities arising from its operations and is committed to responsible business practices.
These improve the welfare of colleagues and the communities in which we operate, and reduce our impact on the environment.
Colleagues It is the Groups policy to involve colleagues in the business and to ensure that matters of concern to them, including the Groups aims and objectives and its financial performance, are communicated in an open and regular way and, where appropriate, colleagues views are taken into account.
This is achieved through the use of business briengs and other less formal communication.
The Directors encourage colleagues to become shareholders in order to promote active participation in, and commitment to, the Groups success.
This policy has been extended to all colleagues through the provision of a SAYE share scheme.
As at 28 March 2014, the following number of colleagues were contributing monthly to the following schemes: 3,449 colleagues 2013 SAYE scheme: 1,751 colleagues 2012 SAYE scheme: 2,136 colleagues 2011 SAYE scheme.
Booker is an inclusive organisation where no-one receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, nationality, marital status, colour, race, ethnic origin, creed, sexual orientation or disability.
The promotion of equal opportunities for all employees is regarded as an important Group priority.
An analysis of Directors, senior managers and other employees by gender as at 28 March 2014 is as follows:- Male Female Number Number Directors 9 2 Senior managers 57 7 Other employees 8,653 4,099 Community The Group builds sustainable relationships primarily through improving its products and services, supplied to its customers, who are often independent businesses at the heart of their communities.
Additional support provided this year has included: Each business centre, distribution centre and support centre has nominated a local charity to support.
For the year ended 28 March 2014, colleagues raised 85,814 for these charities: Throughout the year the Group donated surplus food to local homeless charities from Booker business centres and distribution centres.
The equivalent of 200,000 meals were donated to charities across the UK, with an additional 30 tonnes of food reprocessed for animal feed: Floods and storms caused disruption throughout the winter of 2013 14 and many of our customers businesses were affected.
Booker colleagues went the extra mile to maintain deliveries and support customers during this time.
In addition, the Group established a fund of 350,000 to enable branches in the worst affected areas to support customers recovering from the damage.
The following testimonials are from customers who have benefited from this fund: Kris Cruisers Datchet, Surrey Our family have run the business since 1966.
The devastating floods at the start of this year caused us to close down for five weeks with the loss of eight weeks work.
We have been overwhelmed by the generosity and support of Booker colleagues in assisting us to replace lost and damaged stock, which has meant we can open in time for Easter.
Paul Clark, Owner The Willow Bistro Perranporth, Cornwall We opened our restaurant in September 2013 with no experience.
Since then Booker have done so much for us, from the time we walked through the branch door, to the advice from the Catering Development Manager and the care and attention shown by the Area Manager has been superb.
On 3 January we were flooded by the storms on the first occasion.
We had just recovered when a month later we were hit again.
We cant believe how helpful Booker and all the branch staff have been: they rallied round to support us and helped get us re-opened Janine & Stuart Branch, Owners 10 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report The Blue Shed Coffee House Sutton Green, Surrey My business was badly impacted by the flooding and high winds which brought down power cables.
I was unable to get to the branch for stock and, as we had lost power, a lot of stock was wasted.
Booker kindly offered to replace the damaged stock free of charge, which was critical to me given my business is still young and growing.
Many thanks from The Blue Shed Coffee House Paul Dickson, Owner Seaton Beach Caf Looe, Cornwall I have owned Seaton Beach Cafe, near Looe in Cornwall, for the past ten years and have used Booker as one of my main suppliers from the very beginning.
I have always been delighted with the service they provide and their friendly staff.
Recently, we were severely affected by the storms and have spent months closed whilst we re-built the cafe.
I was overwhelmed by the support that Booker showed me during this difficult time, providing us with all sorts of products free of charge and lots of moral support Nicki Barry, Owner Environment Carbon Reduction Awards The Carbon Trust Standard is a voluntary certication and mark of excellence that enables organisations to demonstrate their success in cutting their carbon footprint.
Booker obtained a third consecutive Carbon Trust Standard in 2013.
This award demonstrates Bookers long term commitment to successfully measuring, managing and reducing its carbon footprint consistently over a six year period.
We were also awarded, in 2013, 2012 and 2010, Green Wholesaler of the Year at the Grocer Gold Awards, sponsored by the industry journal The Grocer.
Energy Efficiency The Group regularly reviews its operations to ensure that energy efficient practices are put in place and continues to seek out innovative investments in sustainable technology.
Examples are provided below: Business Centre Design New and retted business centres have energy efficient features included in their designs: Maximum transparent roof area, light-sensitivity and occupancy controls and energy-efficient lighting: High efficiency heaters, timing controls and re-circulation fans: High thermal efficiency cold rooms: and New cladding and roong to improve insulation.
Transport The efficient movement of stock is a key focus and we collaborate with suppliers to nd ways to reduce food miles from the total supply chain by minimising empty journeys.
In a recent development, double deck vehicles have been introduced, which provide the capacity to load 44 pallets rather than the standard 26, reducing the number of delivery trips from our distribution centres to our business centres.
During the year ended 28 March 2014, double deck deliveries were extended to nine business centres.
Voltage Optimisation Voltage Optimisation is a technology which, when tted to an incoming electrical supply, acts to reduce energy consumption.
At March 2014, units had been installed in 75 Booker sites.
During an initial measurement period 3 December 2013 to 27 February 2014 the savings exceeded 10% of consumption in these sites compared to the prior year.
11 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Greenhouse Gas Emissions In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, this is the first year the Group has publicly reported on greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
The statement below summarises the Groups GHG emissions between 30 March 2013 and 28 March 2014 from fuel consumption and the operation of the Groups facilities.
GHG Emissions Data 30 March 2013 to 28 March 2014 Tonnes 000 CO e 2 FY14 Scope 1 direct GHG emissions from owned or controlled sources Gas Consumption 15.3 Diesel from Leased Vehicles 37.3 Fugitive Emissions Refrigerant Gas 23.2 Total Scope 1 75.8 Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions from purchased electricity Purchased Elecricity Generation 83.3 Total Scope 2 83.3 Significant Scope 3 other indirect GHG emissions Electricity Transmission & Distribution 7.1 Waste Disposal including customer recycling 1.7 Total Scope 3 8.8 Out of Scope 0.9 Total Gross Emissions 168.8 Notes: T he Group has reported on all material emission sources for which it deems itself to be responsible, and the emissions data is reported using an Operational Control approach to define the organisational boundary T he methodologies and denitions used to derive the table above are drawn from 2013 Government environmental reporting guidance, the GHG protocol and Defra GHG Conversion Factors 2013 D ata collected for the Government Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy efficiency Scheme CRC scheme has been used to report energy consumption data for Ritter & Classic.
The CRC scheme is a mandatory reporting and pricing framework to improve energy efficiency in large public and private organisations.
I n respect of India, we have undertaken a materiality assessment and consider that the related emissions are not material.
Emissions from these operations are, therefore, excluded from our reported emissions.
CO e is the CO equivalent 2 2 Environment Waste Reduction and Recycling Awards The Carbon Trust Waste Standard is a new international waste standard that certies the waste reduction efforts of companies.
We participated in the pilot for the new Standard in September 2013 and was the fifth company in the UK and the first wholesaler to receive this certication.
The Standard was awarded for achievements made in improving waste management over the three year period ended March 2013.
Initiatives included: customer recycling services, donation of surplus food to local charities, prevention of waste, diversion of waste food to animal feed, and management of waste to landll.
12 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Packaging Improvements The Group reviews the packaging on its own brand products at every opportunity.
This includes developing packaging to protect stock from damage thereby reducing food waste, reducing the weight of the packaging and better sealing of packs to extend shelf life.
Company Waste Reduction and Recycling We continue to work to prevent waste, redistribute t for purpose food, increase recycling and divert waste away from landll.
We use the Governments waste hierarchy which sets out 5 steps for dealing with waste ranked by their environmental impact, to ensure all waste is dealt with in the most environmentally positive way.
During the last year we increased the volume of waste recycled and sent to recovery processes by 15% and reduced waste to landll by 9%.
We are an active contributor to the Institute of Grocery Distributors Product & Packaging Waste Prevention Group, whose aim is to prevent waste throughout the food industry.
This has focused on delivering savings against a voluntary industry commitment to eliminate 200,000 tonnes of waste by the end of 2014.
During 2013 we led the industry working group to increase redistribution of t for purpose food to charity and animal feed.
Customer Packaging Recycling In April 2012 our packaging recycling service was launched, and now over 9,000 customers are regularly using the service.
Volumes of cardboard recycled in the year ended March 2014 are up 40% on prior year and feedback is very positive.
The recycling service at Booker is a real life line for our business.
Most of our waste is cardboard and without this service it would have gone to landll: the service is absolutely invaluable!
Mark Baravelli, Artisan Chocolatier, Conwy Customer Used Cooking Oil Recycling Customers deposit used cooking oil at their local business centre or a collection can be arranged from their premises.
The Group operates a simple rebate scheme per litre recycled.
Approximately 7,000 customers are using the service and 2.5 million litres of waste oil have been recycled into sustainable bio fuels in the year ended March 2014.
The service is always good.
Drivers are great and always friendly.
It saves me time, money and is more convenient than transporting the oil to the branch myself Katie Smith, Proprietor, Oriel y Parc, Pembrokeshire Ethical Sourcing We use Fair Trade and Farm Assurance schemes and all suppliers are required to complete a sustainability and ethics questionnaire.
Examples of our approach are: Sustainable Palm Oil: All Happy Shopper, Chefs Larder and Euroshopper ranges of biscuits and snack products contain sustainable palm oil.
Rain Forest Alliance: Happy Shopper Tea Bags have attained the Rain Forest Alliance standard.
The Rainforest Alliance seal assures consumers that the product they are purchasing has been grown and harvested using environmentally and socially responsible practices.
Fair Trade: The Group continues to expand its range of catering products that are certied Fair Trade, with all Chefs Larder tea and coffee products now being Fair Trade accredited.
The Licheld Fair Trade range now has 22 products across tea, coffee, sugar and biscuits.
Red Tractor Farm Assured: The Red Tractor Farm Assurance scheme recognises good standards of animal welfare on UK livestock farms.
The Group has 120 own label products displaying the red tractor logo across its retail and catering ranges and continues to work to widen the products covered by this standard.
