16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 29 05 2014 14:17 Page 30 30 DIRECTORS REPORT continued shareholders have the opportunity to attend, vote and most importantly to communicate directly with the whole Board.
There is a regular dialogue between the Manager and major institutional shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to help develop an understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
During the year, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other Directors also met representatives of those major shareholders who accepted an invitation from the Chairman to meet.
Social and Environmental Policies As an investment trust with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price-to-book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example quality of management, innovation, competitive advantage and product strength.
The Companys policy is that, subject to an overriding requirement to pursue the best financial interests of the Company, the Manager should take account of social, environmental and ethical factors in making and holding investments and in the use of voting powers conferred by such investments.
The Company is able to supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic form e. g. by email or by means of a website.
This will deliver environmental benefits through reduced use of paper and the energy required for its production and distribution.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no employees or premises and does not purchase electricity, heat, steam or cooling for its own use.
Accordingly, the quantifiable amount of carbon dioxide equivalent produced by the Company annually is zero tonnes.
Share Capital Capital Structure At the year end, the Companys allotted and fully paid share capital consisted of 195,116,734 ordinary shares of 25p each.
To enable the Board to take action to deal with any significant overhang or shortage of shares in the market, it seeks approval from shareholders every year to buy back and issue shares, however, no shares were bought back or issued in the year.
Restrictions There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company, no special rights with regard to control attached to securities, no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company, and no agreements to which the Company is party that might affect its control following a successful takeover bid.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, every shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Repurchase Powers The Boards current powers to repurchase shares and proposals for their renewal are disclosed on page 32.
