Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 29 People Our people, partnerships and members of staff to invest in the happy are you at work this month?
and environment Business through share ownership at How supported do you feel?
esure Group staff lead the way in forging 80% of market value.
Our Employee Consultation Group meets strong, valuable and sympathetic We encourage our staff to join the regularly throughout the year, providing relationships with our customers, Group as customers as well as employees another forum for direct feedback to partners, suppliers and local communities.
through staff discounts on esure management.
In addition, the Group has Their contribution ranges from their pride products.
In addition, we operate a recently updated its whistleblowing policy in the efficient handling of the policies festive bonus scheme as well as a profit to enable staff to raise concerns and claims of our customers to their part share award for eligible members, anonymously without concern that they in our Corporate and Social Responsibility childcare vouchers, a performance and take responsibility for suspicions raised.
when promoting Macmillan Cancer Group award scheme for management, We are proud that, in our view, we Support, local charities and adopting interest free season ticket loans for employ some of the most ambitious and high environmental standards.
travel, flexible working practices as well committed members of staff across the as long service awards of which there As such, we invest in them and seek to insurance industry.
This pride is put into are many.
engage them personally, professionally action with the Group seeking and and socially in the life of esure.
Keeping staff abreast of the latest providing opportunities for our people developments from around our Business to develop in their careers.
Our commitment to corporate social is central to engagement.
In 2014, we responsibility focuses on all parties Our Chief Executive Officer operates an placed an increased focus on our intranet associated with our Business staff, annual Talent Development Programme.
tool, enabling people from around the customers and stakeholders.
We set This is an organised and planned training Business to share stories of success, these out below in the following programme providing an opportunity for policy updates, team changes and categories: members of staff to learn from senior general news.
leaders within the Business, helping them Our people and our culture At least twice each year, our Chief grow as industry professionals.
Executive Officer and members of our Community and issues engagement As the Business focuses on innovation, Executive Team share company news specialist project teams are established Charitable involvement through a series of staff briefings that throughout the year pulling together take place on location in our Glasgow, Sustainability and the environment people with different skills from around Manchester and Reigate offices.
Each the Business to contribute to the next Our people and our culture briefing provides an opportunity for staff era of change.
In addition, the Group We value and reward our staff.
We have to learn more of our strategy and provides on the job training as well as established a culture that is conducive to performance but also to ask questions the opportunity to partake in off-site a positive working environment with of our senior management.
Our Chief training to help staff develop and grow emphasis on opportunity, equality and Executive Officer also operates a series with the Business.
diversity as well as performance and of Chief Executive Officer Lunches inviting career development.
people from every level of the Business But its not all about work.
esure Group is to meet and discuss topics of interest.
also an environment where we encourage This starts with our induction training There is a no holds barred attitude to people to enjoy working: fun is a key for new staff, with each new team the questions that staff can ask we ingredient in the success of the Business.
member required to sign off the Equality encourage frankness in debate and see Alongside annual Festive Competitions and Diversity Policy and our Code of each challenge or question as an running every weekday in December Conduct Policy, with refresher training opportunity to educate and engage staff.
with winning members of staff awarded provided annually.
significant prizes, we encourage teams The Group takes all feedback very Financially, we are committed to ensuring to engage in healthy and developmental seriously.
Each year, our Human members of staff are well rewarded for activities together including sports Resources team invites staff opinions the value they bring to the Group and the tournaments and challenges, team through the esure Group Pulse Survey to service they deliver to customers.
We fitness activities, quizzes, book events, identify how the business can continually know that high quality service drives football leagues and participating in improve.
Results are fed back to staff retention and satisfaction, so this is key activities for local charities.
along with the outcomes of very simple to our reward structure.
We also operate dip surveys of all staff asking: How an esure Group Sharesave Plan enabling esure Group Annual Report 2014 30 Engaged staff are the building blocks of our focus on providing a positive customer experience across the Business.
We measure this through both customer focus groups and our Voice of the Customer surveys to ensure we are delivering against our objectives.
These allow our customers to feed back their experiences and perceptions of how we are delivering.
The results are circulated to executive members and the wider business to seek out places for improvement.
Furthermore, a new approach to communicating our brand coherently and enthusiastically to our customers has been established through our Tone of Voice project in 2014.
We have identified the key tenets of a transparent and straightforward approach to customers through the language we use and aim to uphold this with a can-do, supportive attitude.
We look forward to rolling this out further over the coming year for the benefit of our customers and staff.
Community and issues engagement As a business operating out of three offices in Glasgow, Manchester and Reigate we are particularly conscious of those communities around us.
We understand that investing in a community is not just about providing employment opportunities.
We encourage nominations to local causes from people around the Business so we never lose sight of our role in those communities and give back where possible.
We operate a structured community giving programme, working and investing in organisations that share our core values in and around our office locations.
This year, we continued our engagement with national organisations such as BRAKE, Road Peace, Thatcham Research, and the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety.
Our relationship with Surrey Fire Brigade and its Safe Drive Stay Alive campaign has been longstanding.
We have Further details on Human Rights supported this programme for ten years can be found on page 66 of the Directors Report and are proud to be part of an initiative that has taught over 100,000 young Further details on gender diversity drivers in Surrey about road safety, can be found on page 42 of the saving lives and making local roads safer.
Corporate Governance Report Charitable involvement Supplementing our community engagement activity, the Group supports some excellent charitable causes.
Our Sheilas Wheels brand was esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 31 the founding partner of the Macmillan 6,000 by year end 2014 through a environmentally conscious in our Cancer Support Night In campaign in series of events such as a Christmas day-to-day activities.
2013 and we partnered with Macmillan raffle, book sale and a variety of dress As a Business that has traditionally relied again this year with sponsorship, staff down days for staff.
on paper for product dissemination, we and customer engagement.
In March, the team ran a Sport Relief have made major steps in 2014 to reduce At esure, teams throughout the company initiative.
The event included activities our paper usage.
Our new systems that were involved through cake sales, dress such as a 5k fun run around the City allow customers to migrate to the down days, quizzes, raffles and a special centre and cake sale with all proceeds e-fulfilment of their policies became fully Sheila Selfie initiative which saw the donated to Sport Relief.
As always, the operational in September 2014.
The Sheilas have their picture taken with staff focus for the fun run was on inclusivity, launch saw the introduction of fully online members for a donation.
with the team welcoming all abilities and policy documents and certificates for encouraging as many people as possible our customers.
All the activity created a 25% increase to take part.
on last years fundraising total to help During 2014, these early stages in Macmillan Cancer Support make a real In addition, the Manchester team e-fulfilment saw the Group reduce the difference to the lives of those living supported Children in Need: the Points number of customer policy and document with cancer and its effects.
This was Parents Forum, a local organisation who packs it sends out by 477,000, saving supplemented by a corporate donation.
support families with children who have 69 tonnes of paper that would have additional needs: as well as Homeless otherwise been used in printing these In addition, we supported other local Hounds, whose mission is to rescue and packs.
We are incredibly proud of charities throughout the year nominated re-home abandoned and abused dogs this result.
by staff members in each of our offices, and give them a forever home.
including larger national activities such As the penetration of e-fulfilment grows as Children In Need alongside smaller, Sustainability and the environment within our customer base we expect to localised initiatives close to team The Group offers a financial service see this part of our resource usage and members hearts such as The Beatson rather than a manufactured product.
carbon footprint from printing and Cancer charity in Glasgow who cared for Consequently, its effects on the postage further reduce in years to come.
a member of staff who lost her battle environment hinge on its office space Also this year, we adopted the with cancer in 2014. and its production of documentation Government-led Energy Savings internally and for customers.
We are The team in Glasgow managed to raise Opportunity Scheme which is to become conscious of these effects and work hard over 20,000 through a variety of compulsory for businesses in December to mitigate them.
Our early start with this will allow We source all of our electricity from the Group to make further strides.
As well as supporting nationwide charities renewable sources, and invest in our such as Macmillan Cancer Support, Through our approved repairers we systems such as auto-shutdown Sports Relief and Children in Need, the undertake many thousands of repairs facilities and our efficient thin-client Glasgow staff nominated local charities each year for customers.
We have desktop environment to ensure each to benefit from its monthly dress down mandated compliance with PAS 125 for of our buildings run efficiently.
days and quarterly fun days which they all our approved repairers providing fit in throughout the year.
The fun days Each year, our facilities team undertakes quality guarantees for our customers.
included bake sales, raffles, sweepstakes UK GHG Mandatory Reporting looking at This also sets safety standards for the and various other fundraising activities the Groups carbon footprint and presents qualified staff who conduct repairs.
this to the executive team to include in Summary the Directors Report further details and In addition to monetary donations, the Overall, 2014 has been a successful year results can be found on page 66.
Glasgow team collected Christmas lunch for our people, our partnerships and our boxes for Loaves & Fishes, a local charity The headlines are that esure Group effect on the environment.
We are proud providing essential food items to families managed a 12% reduction in its carbon of a suite of improvements in our in the Glasgow and surrounding area.
It footprint in 2014 vs 2013 with our Head Corporate and Social Responsibility and has been supporting the charity for ten Office in Reigate managing a reduction of look forward to finding new ways to years and is something the team are very 27%.
Overall, esure Group is responsible positively impact the world around us in passionate about.
for operations that saw 5.53 tCO e per 2015.
There is always more that we can 2 million of turnover emitted in 2014 a do and as a listed business, we will work Our Manchester team selected Macmillan reduction from 6.23 tCO e in 2013.
On a towards and report on the enhancements 2 Cancer Support as its nominated charity per employee basis, we emitted 1.68 we make.
These will include the ways we in 2014 following a vote taken at the tCO e in 2014 a reduction of 16% work with our key stakeholders, how we 2 Manchester office at the end of last year.
against 2013. contribute towards charitable giving and community involvement, reducing the The team set a donation target of We continue to work hard on initiatives environmental impact we may have and, 2,800 based on previous year results that will make us even more efficient and most of all, ensuring that esure is a and managed to raise approximately people business at every level.
