Additional disclosures In 2012 and 2013, the Gulf of Mexico was impacted by the Bureau of Environmental expenditure Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcements BOEMRE Notice to Lessees NTL 2010-G05, issued in October 2010, which $ million requires that idle infrastructure on active leases be decommissioned 2014 2013 2012 earlier than previously was required and establishes guidelines to Environmental expenditure relating to the determine the future utility of idle infrastructure on active leases.
a Gulf of Mexico oil spill 190 66 919 We undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews Operating expenditure 624 657 742 take account of revised cost assumptions, changes in decommissioning Capital expenditure 590 1,091 1,207 requirements and any technological developments.
Clean-ups 33 42 47 Additions to environmental remediation Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are provision 371 472 549 usually established on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 Additions to decommissioning provision 2,216 2,092 3,766 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Further details a of decommissioning and environmental provisions appear in the financial The environmental expenditure credit of $66 million in 2013 arises primarily from the write-back of a spill response provision.
Environmental expenditure relating to the Gulf of Regulation of the groups business Mexico oil spill BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, For full details of all environmental activities in relation to the Gulf of pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals Mexico oil spill, see Financial statements Note 2. production, trading, biofuels, wind and shipping activities, are conducted Other environmental expenditure in almost 80 countries and are subject to a broad range of EU, US, Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, abatement international, regional and local legislation and regulations, including or elimination of air, water and solid waste pollution is often not incurred legislation that implements international conventions and protocols.
Instead, it forms part of a larger These cover virtually all aspects of BPs activities and include matters transaction that includes, for example, normal maintenance expenditure.
such as licence acquisition, production rates, royalties, environmental, The figures for environmental operating and capital expenditure in the health and safety protection, fuel specifications and transportation, table are therefore estimates, based on the definitions and guidelines of trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes and foreign exchange.
The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under Environmental operating expenditure of $624 million in 2014 was at a which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled company and Capital expenditure in 2014 was lower than in 2013 principally due to are sometimes entered into with private property owners.
Arrangements reduced levels of construction activity at our Whiting refinery in 2014 as with governmental or state entities usually take the form of licences or compared to 2013.
The final major units associated with the Whiting production-sharing agreements PSAs, although arrangements with the refinery modernization project were commissioned in December 2013.
US government can be by lease.
Arrangements with private property Clean-up costs in 2014 were lower than in 2013 primarily due to an owners are usually in the form of leases.
overall reduction in clean-up activities and services required across sites.
Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for and In addition to operating and capital expenditures, we also establish exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the risk provisions for future environmental remediation.
Expenditure against such of exploration, development and production activities and provides the provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is not included in financing for these operations.
In principle, the licence holder is entitled environmental operating expenditure reported for such periods.
to all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
A licence Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is holder is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, which may be in cash or in kind.
Less typically, BP may explore for and exploit probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in exchange for reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation and PSAs entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled abatement programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
They often depend on the extent of contamination, and the associated impact and company generally require BP to provide all the financing and bear the risk of exploration and production activities in exchange for a share of the timing of the corrective actions required, technological feasibility and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of future programmes could be production remaining after royalties, if any.
significant and may be material to the results of operations in the period In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and in which they are recognized, it is not expected that such costs will be production activities, and in some cases production licences are limited material to the groups overall results of operations or financial position.
to only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration licence.
Additions to our environmental remediation provision decreased in 2014 Both exploration and production licences are generally for a specified period of time.
In the US, leases from the US government typically largely due to scope reassessments of the remediation plans of a number of our sites in the US and Canada.
The charge for environmental remain in effect for a specified term, but may be extended beyond that term as long as there is production in paying quantities.
The term of BPs remediation provisions in 2014 included $13 million in respect of provisions for new sites 2013 $13 million and 2012 $19 million.
licences and the extent to which these licences may be renewed vary from country to country.
In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oiland gasproducing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual BP frequently conducts its exploration and production activities in joint arrangements or co-ownership arrangements with other international decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production facility, a provision is established that represents the discounted value of oil companies, state-owned or controlled companies and or private companies.
These joint arrangements may be incorporated or the expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
unincorporated arrangements, while the co-ownerships are typically In 2014 additions to the decommissioning provision were greater than in unincorporated.
Whether incorporated or unincorporated, relevant 2013, and occurred as a result of detailed reviews of expected future agreements set out each partys level of participation or ownership costs, and to a lesser extent increases to the asset base.
The majority of interest in the joint arrangement or co-ownership.
Conventionally, all these additions related to our sites in the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico costs, benefits, rights, obligations, liabilities and risks incurred in carrying and Angola.
The additions in 2012 and 2013 were driven by changes in out joint-arrangement or co-ownership operations under a lease or estimation and detailed reviews of expected future costs.
licence are shared among the joint-arrangement or co-owning parties Defined on page 252.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 225
