Oil spill preparedness and response Environment and society Our requirements for oil spill preparedness and response planning, and crisis management incorporate what we have learned over many years of Throughout the life cycle of our projects and operation, and specically from the Deepwater Horizon accident.
Almost operations, we aim to manage the environmental three quarters of our businesses with the potential to spill oil have updated oil spill planning scenarios and response strategies, in line with our new and social impacts of our presence.
We aim to complete the remaining updates by the end of 2016. t Almost three quarters of our businesses with the potential to spill oil Meeting the requirements is a substantial piece of work and we believe have updated oil spill planning scenarios and response strategies.
this has already resulted in a significant increase in our oil spill response t We actively monitor and report greenhouse gas GHG emissions to capability.
For example, this includes using specialized modelling improve our understanding and management of potential carbon risks.
techniques that help predict the impact of potential spills, the provision of t We are working towards aligning with the United Nations Guiding stockpiles of dispersants and the use of new tools for environmental monitoring, such as aerial and underwater robotic vehicles.
Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Enhancing response capabilities a Greenhouse gas emissions We consider the environmental and socio-economic sensitivities of a MteCO equivalent 2 region to help inform oil spill response planning.
Sensitivity mapping helps 58.0 us to identify the various types of habitats, resources and communities that could be affected by oil spills and develop appropriate response 54.0 strategies.
We are implementing a mapping system that brings together 0.8 3 b geographical, operational, infrastructure, socio-economic, biological and 50.3 0.6 0.1 habitat information to help us identify and better understand potential 50.0 48.6 impacts of an oil spill.
46.0 We are also testing the applicability of a number of emerging technologies for oil spill response, including the use of robotic vehicles with camera sensors to locate spills and provide remote visibility for oil spill response at sea.
We seek to work collaboratively with government regulators in planning for oil spill response, with the aim of improving any potential future response.
For example, in 2014 we shared lessons on dispersant use and oil spill response technologies with government regulators in Angola, the a This is based on BPs equity share basis.
b The reported 2013 gure of 49.2 MteCO e has been amended to 50.3 MteCO e. 2 2 See page 39 for information on volume of oil spilled by our operations in 2014, including volume of oil unrecovered.
Managing our impacts Climate change Our operating sites can have a lifespan of several decades and our operations are expected to work to reduce their impacts and risks.
BP believes that climate change is an important long-term issue that This starts in early project planning and continues through operations justifies global action.
We are taking steps to address carbon risk and and decommissioning.
collaborating with others on climate change issues.
For example, we require our operations to incorporate energy use considerations in their Our operating management system OMS includes practices that set business plans and to assess, prioritize and implement technologies and out requirements and guidance for how we identify and manage systems that could improve usage.
We factor a carbon cost into our own environmental and social impacts.
The practices apply to our major investments and engineering designs for large new projects, and invest in projects, projects that involve new access, those that could affect an lower-carbon energy products.
We seek to address potential climate international protected area and some BP acquisition negotiations.
change impacts on our new projects in the design phase.
We have In the early planning stages of these projects, we complete a screening guidance for existing operations and projects on how to assess potential process to identify the most significant environmental and social impacts.
climate risks and impacts to enable mitigation steps to be incorporated We completed the process for 19 projects in 2014.
Following screening, into project planning, design and operations.
projects are required to carry out impact assessments, identify mitigation Greenhouse gas emissions measures and implement these in project design, construction and We report on direct and indirect GHG emissions on a carbon dioxideoperations.
Direct emissions include CO and methane from 2 2 BPs environmental expenditure in 2014 totalled $4,024 million 2013 the combustion of fuel and the operation of facilities, and indirect $4,288 million, 2012 $7,230 million.
For a breakdown of environmental emissions include those resulting from the purchase of electricity, heat, expenditure see page 225.
This gure includes a charge of $190 million steam or cooling.
In 2014 we changed our GHG reporting boundary from relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
For reference, expenditure related to a BP equity-share basis to an operational control basis.
the Gulf of Mexico oil spill was a credit of $66 million in 2013 and a charge Our approach to reporting GHG emissions broadly follows the IPIECA of $919 million in 2012.
For Regulation of the groups business API IOGP Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions Environmental regulation see page 225. the IPIECA guidelines.
We calculate emissions based on the fuel We review our management of material issues such as greenhouse gas consumption and fuel properties for major sources rather than the use emissions, water, sensitive and protected areas and oil spill response.
We do not include nitrous oxide, This includes examining emerging risks and actions taken to mitigate hydrouorocarbons, peruorocarbons and sulphur hexauoride as them.
they are not material and it is not practical to collect this data.
42 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 2013 direct GHG Acquisitions Divestments Operational changes Real sustainable reductions 2014 direct GHG Strategic report Greenhouse gas emissions MteCO e BP seeks to apply responsible well design and construction, surface 2 operation and uid handling practices to mitigate these risks.
2014 2013 2012 a Operational control Water and sand constitute on average 99.5% of the injection material Direct emissions 54.1 used in hydraulic fracturing.
Some of the chemicals that are added to this when used in certain concentrations, are classied as hazardous by the Indirect emissions 7.2 b relevant regulatory authorities.
BP works with service providers to BP equity share c minimize their use where possible.
We list the chemicals we use in the Direct emissions 48.6 50.3 59.8 fracturing process in material safety data sheets at each site.
We also Indirect emissions 6.6 6.6 8.4 submit data on chemicals used at our hydraulically fractured wells in the a Operational control data comprises 100% of emissions from activities that are operated by BP, US, to the extent allowed by our suppliers who own the chemical going beyond the IPIECA guidelines by including emissions from certain other activities such as formulas, at fracfocus.
org or other state-designated websites.
Data for emissions on an operational control basis was not available prior to 2014.
We aim to minimize air pollutant and GHG emissions, such as methane, at b BP equity share comprises our share of BPs consolidated entities and equity-accounted entities, our operating sites.
For example, we use a process called green other than BPs share of TNK-BP and Rosneft.
Rosnefts emissions data can be found on its completions at the majority of our gas operations in the US.
c The reported 2013 gure of 49.2 MteCO e has been amended to 50.3 MteCO e. which we have been using since 2001, captures natural gas that would 2 2 otherwise be ared or vented during the completion and commissioning The decrease in our GHG emissions is primarily due to the sale of our of wells.
Carson and Texas City reneries in the US as part of our divestment programme.
com greenhousegas for more information about our Our US Lower 48 onshore businesss approach is to operate in line with GHG emissions from upstream production, rening throughput and industry standards developed within the context of the highly regulated US environment.
com unconventionalgas for information about our approach to Intensity In 2014 we changed the intensity ratio we report on from a financial to a unconventional gas and hydraulic fracturing.
The ratio of our total GHG emissions reported on Canadas oil sands an operational control-based boundary to gross production was BP is involved in three oil sands lease areas in Canada.
Sunrise Phase 1, 0.25teCO e te production in 2014.
Gross production comprises upstream 2 operated by Husky Energy, started up at the end of 2014 and we expect production, rening throughput and petrochemicals produced.
first oil to be recovered in the first quarter of 2015.
Pike Phase 1, operated In 2013 we reported the ratio of our total GHG emissions on a BP by Devon Energy, was granted regulatory approval in November 2014 and equity-share basis to adjusted revenue of those entities or share of is at the design and planning stage.
Terre fide Grace, which is BP-operated, entities included in GHG reporting.
Adjusted is currently under appraisal for development.
revenue reects total revenues and other income, less gains on sales of Our decision to invest in Canadian oil sands projects takes into businesses and xed assets.
consideration GHG emissions, impacts on land, water use, local Greenhouse gas regulation communities and commercial viability.
Projects are managed through GHG regulation is increasing globally.
For example, we are seeing the governance committees, with equal representation from BP and our growth of emission pricing schemes in Europe, California and China, partners, and approval rights laid out in agreements with our partners.
additional monitoring regulations in the US and increased focus on See bp.
com oilsands for information on BPs investments in Canadas reducing aring and methane emissions in many jurisdictions.
We expect that GHG regulation will have an increasing impact on our businesses, operating costs and strategic planning, but may also offer Human rights opportunities for the development of lower-carbon technologies and We are committed to conducting our business in a manner that respects businesses.
the rights and dignity of all people.
We respect internationally recognized human rights, as set out in the International Bill of Human Rights and the Accordingly, we require larger projects, and those for which emissions International Labour Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles costs would be a material part of the project, to apply a standard carbon and Rights at Work.
We set out our commitments in our human rights cost to the projected GHG emissions over the life of the project.
Our code of conduct references the policy, requiring employees to industrialized countries, our standard cost assumption is currently $40 per report any human rights abuse in our operations or in those of our tonne of CO equivalent.
We use this cost as a basis for assessing the 2 business partners.
economic value of the investment and as one consideration in optimizing the way the project is engineered with respect to GHG emissions.
We are delivering our human rights policy by implementing the relevant sections of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human See page 225 for information on other environmental regulations.
Rights and incorporating them into the processes and policies that govern Water our business activities.
Our action plan aims to achieve closer alignment BP recognizes the importance of managing fresh water use and water with the UN Guiding Principles over a number of years using a risk-based discharges effectively in our operations and evaluates risks, including approach.
Representatives from key functions, including human water scarcity, wastewater disposal and the long-term social and resources, ethics and compliance, procurement, security, and safety and environmental pressures on local water resources.
operational risk oversee the plans implementation.
We have invested in a specialist water treatment company to support In 2014 our actions included: operations in areas of water scarcity.
The company manufactures t Human rights training events for more than 270 people, including desalinization and brine management systems and we aim to trial these awareness training for relevant senior leadership teams and technologies at our operations.
representatives from functions such as procurement, shipping, finance and legal.
Unconventional gas and hydraulic fracturing t Natural gas resources, including unconventional gas, have an increasingly The inclusion of human rights clauses in a number of our standard model contracts.
important role in meeting the worlds growing energy needs.
New technologies are making it possible to extract unconventional gas t Participation in the work of oil and gas industry organization IPIECA on resources safely, responsibly and economically.
BP has unconventional developing shared industry approaches to managing human rights risks in gas operations in Algeria, Indonesia, Oman and the US.
the supply chain and guidance on responding to community grievances.
Some stakeholders have raised concerns about the potential t Continued implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and environmental and community impacts of hydraulic fracturing.
Human Rights, with periodic internal assessments to identify areas for improvement.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 43 Dened on page 252.
