In addition to the committee membership, all the SEEAC meetings were Safety, ethics and environment assurance attended by the group chief executive, the executive vice president for safety committee SEEAC and operational risk and the general auditor or his delegate.
The external auditor attended some of the meetings and was briefed on the other meetings by the chair and secretary to the committee, as did the group general counsel and group ethics and compliance officer.
The committee scheduled private sessions for the committee members only without the presence of executive management at the conclusion of each meeting to discuss any issues arising and the quality of the meeting.
Members Name Membership status Paul Anderson Member since February 2010: chairman since chairman December 2012 Frank Bowman Member since November 2010 Antony Member since February 2004 Burgmans Cynthia Carroll Member since June 2007 Chairmans introduction Ann Dowling Member since February 2012 The SEEAC has continued to monitor closely and provide constructive Alan Boeckmann Member since September 2014 challenge to management in the drive for safe and reliable operations at all times.
This included the committee receiving specic reports on BPs Activities during the year management of high priority risks in marine, wells, pipelines, facilities and major security incidents.
The committee also undertook a number of eld Safety, operations and environment visits as well as maintained its schedule of regular meetings with executive The committee received regular reports from the S&OR function, including management.
quarterly reports prepared for executive management on the groups health, safety and environmental performance and operational integrity.
We continued to receive regular reports from the independent experts that These included quarter-by-quarter measures of personal and process we have engaged in the Upstream Carl Sandlin and in the Downstream safety, environmental and regulatory compliance and audit findings.
They have provided valuable insights and advice on many Operational risk and performance forms a large part of the committees aspects of process safety and we are grateful to them for their work.
We were also very pleased to welcome Alan Boeckmann to the During the year the committee received specic reports on the companys committee in September.
Alan brings valuable experience and insight from management of risks in marine, wells, pipelines, facilities and major his many years at Fluor.
The committee reviewed these risks, and risk Paul Anderson management and mitigation, in depth with relevant executive Committee chair management.
Independent expert Upstream Role of the committee Mr Carl Sandlin continued in his role as an independent expert to provide The role of the SEEAC is to look at the processes adopted by BPs further oversight and assurance regarding the implementation of the Bly executive management to identify and mitigate significant non-financial Report recommendations.
We were pleased that Mr Sandlin agreed, at the risk.
This includes the committee monitoring the management of personal committees request, to extend his engagement to the summer of 2016. and process safety and receiving assurance that processes to identify and He reported twice directly to the SEEAC in 2014, and presented detailed mitigate such non-financial risk are appropriate in design and effective in reports on his work, including reporting on a number of visits made to implementation.
group operations around the world.
He also reported to the committee that 25 out of 26 recommendations in the Bly Report were completed by the Key responsibilities end of 2014 and he will report to the committee regarding the final The committee receives specic reports from the business segments as recommendation which is expected to be completed at the end of 2015. well as cross-business information from the functions.
These include, but are not limited to, the safety and operational risk S&OR function, group audit, group ethics and compliance and group security.
The SEEAC can access any other independent advice and counsel if it requires, on an unrestricted basis.
The committee met six times in 2014, including joint meetings with the audit committee.
At one of the joint meetings the committee reviewed the general auditors report on the system of internal control and risk management for the year in preparation for the boards report to shareholders in the annual report see Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors Turnbull on page 63.
In that joint meeting the committees also reviewed the general auditors audit programme for the year ahead to ensure both committees endorsed the coverage.
The SEEAC and audit committee worked together, through their chairs and secretaries, to ensure that the agendas did not overlap or omit coverage of any key risks during the year.
68 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance SEEAC focus in 2014 t &YUFSOBM BVEJUPS BTTVSBODF PG t Group chief executives operations risk reports.
t 2VBSUFSMZ SFQPSUT PO 4& QFSGPSNBODF BOE PQFSBUJPOBM sustainability reporting.
t SPVQ BVEJU BTTVSBODF PG TZTUFN PG integrity.
t 4 03 BVEJU BTTVSBODF BT QBSU PG HSPVQ t 'BJS CBMBODFE BOE VOEFSTUBOEBCMF audit.
t 'JFME USJQT MFE CZ the SEEAC including visits to Monitoring of Azerbaijan and Brazil biofuels.
External and operations and internal audit reporting System of internal t 3FWJFX PG FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG #1 T TZTUFN PG t &YQMPTJPO PS SFMFBTF BU GBDJMJUJFT control and risk Risk reviews t Major security incident terrorism.
internal control and risk management.
management t 2VBSUFSMZ HSPVQ BVEJU SFQPSUT t 8FMM JODJEFOU t 1JQFMJOF JODJEFOU t 2VBSUFSMZ TJHOJmDBOU BMMFHBUJPOT BOE investigations reports.
t. BSJOF JODJEFOU t 2VBSUFSMZ ethics and compliance reports.
"t ""OOVBM FUIJDT DFSUJmDBUJPO Undertaken jointly with the audit committee."
its work, in particular by giving committee members the ability to examine Process safety expert Downstream how risk management is being embedded in businesses and facilities, Mr Duane Wilson continued to report to the committee in his role as including management culture.
process safety expert for the Downstream segment.
He continues to work with segment management on a worldwide basis having previously Gulf of Mexico committee focused on US reneries to monitor and advise on the process safety culture and lessons learned across the segment.
He twice reported directly to the SEEAC in 2014 and presented detailed reports on his work including reporting on a number of visits he has made to reneries and other downstream facilities.
Mr Wilson will complete his engagement in April 2015 and delivered his final report to the SEEAC in January 2015.
The committee wishes to thank him for all of his work during the course of his engagement and believes he has made a lasting and positive impact on the process safety culture in the Downstream segment.
Reports from group audit and group ethics and compliance The committee received quarterly reports from both of these functions.
These included summaries of investigations into significant alleged fraud or misconduct which are now undertaken through the business integrity team established in 2014.
In addition, both the general auditor and the group ethics and compliance officer met in private with the chairman and other members of the committee.
Field trips In May the chairman and other members of the committee visited Baku in Chairmans introduction Azerbaijan to examine both offshore facilities Central Azeri platform and The Gulf of Mexico committee continues to oversee the groups response the onshore gas reception terminal Sangachal operated by the group.
In to the Deepwater Horizon accident, ensuring that BP fulls all its legitimate October the chairman and another committee member visited operations obligations while protecting and defending the interests of the group.
In the at the biofuels business in central Brazil.
In September all members of the past year the focus has been on the review of ongoing proceedings in committee visited the Whiting renery in Indiana, US, as part of a larger Multi-District Litigation MDL 2179 and 2185, the assessment of natural board visit.
In all cases, the visiting committee members received briengs resource damages, and of a number of other legal proceedings in relation on operations, the status of local OMS implementation, and risk to the Deepwater Horizon accident.
Committee members then reported back in I believe the committee has been thorough in the execution of its duties.
detail about each visit to the committee and subsequently to the board.
In The high frequency of meetings and long tenure of committee addition the local management team reported back to the committee membership has enabled members to review an evolving and complex regarding the status of the issues raised during the visit.
Committee review Ian Davis For its 2014 evaluation, the SEEAC examined its performance and Committee chair effectiveness with a questionnaire administered by external consultants.
The topics covered included the balance of skills and experience among its Role of the committee membership, the quality and timeliness of the information the committee The committee was formed in July 2010 to oversee the management and receives, the level of challenge between committee members and mitigation of legal and licence-to-operate risks arising out of the Deepwater management and how well the committee communicates its activities and Horizon accident and oil spill.
Its work is integrated with that of the board, findings to the board.
which retains ultimate accountability for oversight of the groups response to The evaluation results were generally positive.
considered that the committee possessed the right mix of skills and background, had an appropriate level of support and had received open and transparent briengs from management.
The committee considered that the eld trips made by its members had become an important element in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 69 Gulf of Mexico committee focus in 2014 t. %- BOE t 3FTQPOTF BOE SFNFEJBUJPO BDUJWJUJFT t BUVSBM SFTPVSDF EBNBHFT t BUVSBM SFTPVSDF EBNBHFT BTTFTTNFOU t 4VTQFOTJPO BOE EFCBSNFOU BDUJPOT t 3FTUPSBUJPO QSPKFDUT t Impact on financial reporting.
t $MBJNT BENJOJTUSBUJPO t 0UIFS MJUJHBUJPO BOE JOWFTUJHBUJPO Legal Operational t &YUFSOBM BGGBJST BOE DPNNVOJUZ PVUSFBDI t %FQBSUNFOU PG VTUJDF QMFB BHSFFNFOU Reputation Compliance t 64 HPWFSONFOU BOE NFEJB DPNNVOJDBUJPOT t 4&$ DPOTFOU PSEFS t OUFSOBM DPNNVOJDBUJPOT tJDFODF UP PQFSBUF Key responsibilities Committee review t Oversee the legal strategy for litigation, investigations and suspension Each year the Gulf of Mexico committee evaluates its performance and debarment actions arising from the accident and its aftermath, including effectiveness.
Key areas covered included the balance of skills and the strategy connected with settlements and claims.
experience among its membership, quality and timeliness of information t Review the environmental work to remediate or mitigate the effects of and support received by the committee, the appropriateness of committee the oil spill in the waters of the Gulf of Mexico and on the affected tasks and how well the committee communicates its activities and findings shorelines.
t Oversee management strategy and actions to restore the groups The results of the evaluation were positive.
Specic areas for focus in 2015 reputation in the US.
included maintaining constructive and challenging engagement with t Review compliance with government settlement agreements arising out management as well as continuing timely and effective communication of of the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill, including the SEC its activities and findings to the board.
Consent Order, the Department of Justice plea agreement and the EPA administrative agreement, in co-ordination with other committee and board oversight.
Members Name Membership status Ian Davis chair Member since July 2010: committee chair since July 2010 Paul Anderson Member since July 2010 Frank Bowman Member since February 2012 George David Member since July 2010 Alan Boeckmann Member since September 2014 The chairman and the group chief executive attend all meetings of the committee.
Activities during the year The committee reviewed plans and progress in moving Gulf Coast shoreline response activities through to completion and sign-off by the US Coast Guard.
Active clean-up activities are now complete in all states.
The committee continued to oversee numerous legal matters relating to the Deepwater Horizon accident, including the ruling made in respect of Phase 1 of the trial in MDL 2179 and the subsequent appeal of that ruling, preparation for the penalty phase of the trial and BPs appeals to the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and the US Supreme Court relating to the Court Supervised Settlement Program.
The committee met 11 times in 2014.
70 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
