Employees We seek employees who have the right skills and who understand and embody the values and expected behaviours that guide everything we do.
t Our values and code of conduct set out the expected qualities and actions of all our people.
t We aim for a workforce that is engaged and representative of the societies where we operate.
t We have a bias towards building capability and promoting within the organization.
Where necessary, this is complemented by selective external recruitment.
Our values Construction work on the Sunrise energy project, based in the Canadian oil Safety sands of northern Alberta.
com humanrights for more information about our approach to Respect human rights.
Business ethics Excellence Bribery and corruption are significant risks in the oil and gas industry.
We have a responsibility to our shareholders and the countries Courage and communities in which we do business to be ethical and lawful in all our dealings.
Our code of conduct explicitly states that we do not tolerate bribery and corruption in any of its forms.
One Team Our group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy applies to all BP-operated businesses.
The policy governs areas such as appropriate BP headcount clauses in contracts, risk assessments and training.
We target training on a Number of employees at 31 December 2014 2013 2012 a risk basis and to those employees for whom it is thought to be most Upstream 24,400 24,700 24,200 relevant, for example, given specic incidents or the nature or location of their role.
Downstream 48,000 48,000 51,800 Other businesses and corporate 12,100 11,200 10,400 Financial transparency Total 84,500 83,900 86,400 We have taken part in consultations in relation to new or proposed a Reported to the nearest 100.
For more information see Financial statements Note 33. revenue transparency reporting requirements in the US and EU for companies in the extractive industries.
We are preparing to comply with The above table includes: the transposed EU Accounting Directive in the UK and are participating in 2014 2013 2012 the development of industry guidance.
We are awaiting publication of the Retail staff 14,400 14,100 14,700 final rules of the US Dodd-Frank Act, expected to be issued before the Agricultural, operational and end of 2015. seasonal workers in Brazil 5,300 4,300 3,500 As a founding member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, BP works with governments, non-governmental organizations and At the end of December 2014, we had 84,500 employees.
This includes international agencies to improve transparency and disclosure of 14,400 service station staff and 5,300 agricultural, operational and payments to governments.
We support governments efforts towards seasonal workers in Brazil, which has increased by 1,000 in 2014 due to EITI certication in countries where we operate and have worked with the expansion of one of our sugar cane processing mills which was many countries on implementation of their EITI commitments, including completed in 2014.
Meanwhile, operational headcount decreased in other Australia, Azerbaijan, Indonesia, Iraq, Norway, Trinidad & Tobago, the UK areas.
We expect our number of employees to align with BPs smaller and the US.
footprint in 2015 and 2016 as we right-size the organization as part of our response to a lower oil price.
Enterprise and community development Our values We run programmes to help build the skills of businesses and to develop the local supply chain in a number of locations.
For example, in Indonesia, Our values of safety, respect, excellence, courage and one team align we provide one-on-one business consultancy and technical assistance to explicitly with BPs code of conduct and translate into the responsible local businesses during the tender process.
actions necessary for the work we do every day.
Our values represent the qualities and actions we wish to see in BP, they guide the way we do BPs community investments support development that meets local business and the decisions we make.
We use these values as part of our needs and are relevant to our business activities.
We contributed $85 recruitment, promotion and individual performance assessment million in social investment in 2014. processes.
com values for more information.
com society for more information about our social contribution.
Our people We aim to develop the talents of our workforce with a focus on maintaining safe and reliable operations, engaging and developing our employees, and increasing the diversity of our workforce.
The group people committee, chaired by the group chief executive, has overall responsibility for key policy decisions relating to employees and governance of BPs people management processes.
In 2014 the 44 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Strategic report committee discussed longer-term people priorities: reward: progress in the business to thrive, our people need to be treated with respect and our diversity and inclusion programme: recruitment priorities including dignity and without discrimination.
graduate recruitment and improvements to our learning and We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, development programmes.
promotion, training and reward for all employees regardless of race, Attracting and retaining our people colour, national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender The complex projects we work on require a wide range of specialist skills identity, marital status, disability, or any other characteristic protected by from the capability to explore for new sources of energy through to applicable laws.
Where existing employees become disabled, our policy is transporting and distributing hydrocarbons safely across the world.
We to provide continuing employment and training wherever possible.
have a bias towards building capability and promoting from within the Employee engagement organization.
Where necessary, we complement this with selective Executive team members hold regular meetings and webcasts with external recruitment.
In 2014, 84% of new senior leaders were recruited employees around the world.
Team and one-to-one meetings are from within the organization.
complemented by formal processes through works councils in parts of A total of 670 graduates joined BP in 2014.
We target the elds of science, Europe.
We seek to maintain constructive relationships with labour technology, engineering and maths and run initiatives and awareness days unions.
We also run future leader programmes to Each year, we conduct a survey to gather employees views on a wide recruit post-graduates.
In 2014, 37% of our graduate intake were women and 50% were from outside the UK and US.
range of business topics and to identify areas where we can improve.
Approximately 38,000 people in 70 countries completed our 2014 survey.
We conduct external assessments for people entering senior managerial We measure employee engagement with our strategic priorities using roles to help achieve rigour and objectivity in our hiring and talent questions about perceptions of BP and how it is managed in terms of processes.
These provide an in-depth analysis of leadership behaviour and leadership and standards.
This measure remained stable in 2014 at 72% whether candidates have the necessary experience and skills for the role.
Building enduring capability Business leadership teams review the results of the survey and agree Our development opportunities help to build the diverse skills and actions to address focus areas.
The 2014 survey found that employees expertise that we need.
We provide a range of opportunities for our remain clear about the safety procedures, standards and requirements employees, with an increased focus on on-the-job learning.
This can that apply to them and that pride in working at BP has increased steadily include mentoring, team development days, workshops, seminars, online since 2011.
Understanding and support of BPs strategy is strong at senior learning and international assignments.
levels, but needs further communication and engagement across the A career transition is a critical moment in an employees professional organization this is a focus area for 2015.
Scores related to development growth.
We have moved towards prioritizing learning at these points, for and career opportunities have fallen slightly compared to 2013.
We have example, for those joining BP or moving into a new level of management.
been making changes to how we deliver learning and manage talent and We also offer in-role development that covers a range of levels and we expect to see benets in the longer term.
subject areas, from effective planning to inclusive leadership and change Share ownership management.
Employees from 51 countries attended leadership training, We encourage employee share ownership.
For example, through our delivered in six different languages in 2014.
ShareMatch plan, which operates in more than 50 countries, we match Through our internal academies, we provide leading technical, functional, BP shares purchased by our employees.
We operate a single group-wide compliance and leadership learning opportunities.
In 2014, we launched equity plan which allows employee participation at different levels globally five academies including the operating management system OMS and is linked to the companys performance.
academy that provides training to operations personnel on implementing and applying OMS.
The BP code of conduct Diversity Our code of conduct is based on our values and claries the principles and expectations for everyone who works at BP.
It applies to all employees, As a global business, we aim for a workforce representative of the societies in which we operate.
ofcers and members of the board.
Employees, contractors or other third parties who have a question about We have set out our ambitions for diversity and our group people committee reviews performance on a quarterly basis.
We aim for women our code of conduct or see something they feel to be unsafe, unethical or potentially harmful can get help through OpenTalk, a confidential helpline to represent at least 25% of our group leaders the most senior managers of our businesses and functions by 2020.
We continue to operated by an independent company.
support the UK governments review of gender diversity on boards, In 2014 1,114 people contacted OpenTalk with concerns or enquiries 2013 undertaken by Lord Davies in 2011.
Currently we have two women on our 1,121, 2012 1,295.
The most common concerns related to the people board.
We are actively seeking qualied candidates and remain committed section of the code.
This includes treating people fairly, with dignity and to Lord Davies goal of a quarter of our board to be female by the end of giving everyone equal opportunity: creating a respectful, harassment-free 2015.
For more information on our board composition see page 58. workplace: and protecting privacy and condentiality.
Workforce by gender We take steps to identify and correct areas of non-conformance and take Numbers as at 31 December Male Female Female % disciplinary action where appropriate.
In 2014, our businesses dismissed Board directors 12 2 14 157 employees for non-conformance with our code of conduct or unethical Group leaders 426 95 18 behaviour 2013 113.
This excludes dismissals of staff employed at our retail service stations for incidents such as thefts of small amounts of Subsidiary directors 776 125 14 money.
We have enhanced our human resources processes, resulting in All employees 58,700 25,800 31 improved identication and recording of code-related dismissals.
At the end of 2014, 22% of our group leaders came from countries other Policy on political activity than the UK and the US, compared with 14% in 2000.
We have continued We do not use BP funds or resources to support any political candidate or to increase the number of local leaders and employees in our operations so that they reect the communities in which we operate.
Employees rights to participate in political activity are governed by the applicable laws in the countries in which we operate.
For example, in monitored at a local, business and national level.
the US, BP provides administrative support to the BP employee political Inclusion action committee to facilitate employee involvement and to assess Our goal is to create an environment of inclusion and acceptance.
For our whether contributions comply with the law and satisfy all necessary employees to be motivated and to perform to their full potential, and for reporting requirements.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 45 Dened on page 252.
