Corporate social responsibility At Hargreaves Lansdown, we want to make sure that our impact on society is a positive one.
Our company values are rooted in providing great service at a great price.
We believe that doing the right thing makes great business sense.
For more information visit our website at www.
OUR CULTURE Sustainability: We work for the long-term, looking beyond immediate We have worked hard to create what we believe to be a unique working success.
Integrity: We deal with people openly and honestly, building strong Putting clients first: At Hargreaves Lansdown there is an embedded relationships.
culture whereby the interests of clients are always put first and this is communicated to all employees in the business during their induction and throughout their careers.
In practice this includes elements such as ENVIRONMENT ensuring that: all product design and information is clear and understandable As a service business that does not own its business premises and is information and client support is available to clients after the point of fundamentally based on intellectual capital, Hargreaves Lansdown has sale a limited direct impact on the environment.
Nevertheless the Group appropriate complaints handling procedures are in place continues to promote energy efficiency and the avoidance of waste financial promotion and marketing practices are unbiased and throughout its operations.
appropriate for their audience Last year we commissioned a report to investigate our output of To ensure we are getting things right with clients, we listen to them greenhouse gas emissions and reductive measures we could undertake about the changes they would like to see to our services and we for more information visit www.
As part of this report encourage and actively seek feedback from clients.
If clients ever feel the Hargreaves Lansdown was compared to FTSE 100 companies in the need to complain, our complaints handling team carefully investigates same sector and this comparison has been updated in the chart below.
our clients complaint and endeavours to provide them with a fair resolution.
We benchmark our performance in treating clients fairly The results demonstrate the relatively low impact our business has on against statistics published annually by the Financial Ombudsman the environment.
The results for the 2014 financial year compared to the last figures published by the Ombudsman show that Hargreaves Tonnes C02e per employee per annum Lansdown is achieving good results in treating our clients fairly.
HL Integrity: The Company prides itself on its integrity in dealing with clients and staff openly and honestly.
This is achieved through our policy of 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 putting clients first.
All staff are trained and made fully aware of anti-money Lowest Average Highest laundering procedures which must be adhered to at all times.
The Company takes the views of its employees very seriously and as such operates a Whistleblowing Policy with any concerns raised about malpractice or wrongdoing within the workplace being treated with the utmost confidence This low impact on the environment has not stopped us from enacting and in full compliance with the Public Interest Disclosure Act.
initiatives to continue reducing our environmental impact.
Efficiency: We believe that costs require constant consideration and Environmental initiatives: Our objective of reducing waste and have built an ethos of employees continually asking themselves whether minimising the environmental impact of our business is aligned with their actions are cost effective and efficient.
our objectives of protecting client data, reducing costs, and improving efficiency.
It is our aim to deal with clients and other businesses We are committed to managing the environmental impact of our electronically wherever possible not only to speed up information transfer operations, treating our employees well and maintaining a great but also to reduce the amount of paper we use.
We have invested heavily in providing a user-friendly, comprehensive website and automated links culture and working environment.
Our approach to corporate social to banks and fund providers.
The benefits will grow as more people and responsibility includes these key elements: businesses choose to transact business and receive information online.
We aim to increase the take-up of online and paperless services, and have Quality: We want to offer the best products and offer an excellent been successful in doing this during the year: service, and are always looking for ways to improve.
26 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 FTSE4Good Hargreaves Lansdown has continued to be Vantage clients were included in the FTSE4Good Index series, registered as paperless 65% 47% having been independently assessed Vantage equity deals according to the FTSE4Good criteria.
The placed online 92% 90% FTSE4Good index measures the performance of companies that meet globally recognised Clients registered to use our online services 85% 81% standards on corporate social responsibility.
Business travel and commuting: We do not provide company cars increased by 22% 2013: 15% fall compared to the previous year.
The to managers or to our network of advisers.
These advisers are spread increase in electricity use was driven by the occupation of additional floor throughout the UK which minimises travel time and carbon emissions.
We space, and additional computing power, in our head office.
also provide a telephone advice service where a face-to-face meeting is not required.
We also provide a secure bike park at our office enabling up Methodology: We have reported on all of the emission sources required to 150 staff to cycle to work.
under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 which fall within our consolidated financial statements.
Recycling: We continue to shred and recycle confidential waste and have We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not arrangements for the collection of recyclable waste such as printer toner included in our consolidated statement.
We have used the GHG Protocol cartridges, cardboard, plastics, newspapers and out-of-date literature.
We Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised and emission also continue to recycle redundant IT equipment through specialist third factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company parties.
Global GHG emissions data for period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2014 COMMUNITY Emissions from: Current Comparison Change % reporting year With the exceptions described below, we have made it company policy to year 2012-2013 focus our support and fundraising activities on one charity or non-profit 2013-2014 organisation each year which is selected from suggestions received from employees within the Group.
We do not make political donations.
During Combustion of fuel and 214.8 220.9 -2.8 2014 the chosen charity was Penny Brohn Cancer Care.
This charity operation of facilities is based in a purpose built centre on the outskirts of Bristol and helps people to live well with the impact of cancer through their Whole Person Electricity, heat, steam 1623.7 1216.4 33.5 Approach.
and cooling purchased for own use Charitable activity outside of our chosen charity for the year Tonnes of CO2e per 2.32 1.97 17.8 The Group supports a grass-roots sports club.
A monthly donation is average full-time made to the Bristol & West Athletics Club which is the leading all-round equivalent employee athletics club in the Southwest of England.
We are again supporting two teams of staff from Hargreaves Lansdown who are competing in the Invesco Perpetual Highland Adventure Race in September of this year.
This event raises money for the Youth Adventure Electricity usage: Our electricity usage is not high enough to mean that Trust, which aims to provide outdoor adventure programmes for youths we have to participate in Phase 2 of the Carbon Reduction Commitment in order to help give them hope, confidence and life skills.
This scheme is compulsory for UK organisations that consumed over 6,000 MWh of half-hourly metered The Group also makes significant tax payments which help society as a electricity for the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013.
Corporation tax and employers national insurance paid in respect we consumed well below that level and for the year ended 30 June 2014 of the year ended 30 June 2014 was 52.5 million 2013: 45.0 million.
addition other taxes such as VAT, stamp duty and business rates paid.
Greenhouse gas emissions: In 2013 we engaged a consultant to assess Campaigning: The Company also actively seeks to lobby via public our carbon emissions and benchmark us against other firms in our sector.
consultation documents where they believe that investors in the UK will The report was positive and reinforced our belief that we were already benefit.
Our latest success has been the Governments agreement to making good progress towards being resource efficient.
For the year consult on what will be the first step in allowing Child Trust Funds to be ending 2014 our use of refrigerant gases and fuel consumed per employee transferred to far superior Junior ISAs from April 2015. fell by 10% 2013: 23% fall while our electricity use per employee Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 27
