Our people We are committed to recruiting and retaining talented people who put our clients at the heart of our business.
Male Female Total workforce 844 1 Company Directors 6 75% 2 25% Notes: 1.
Company Directors consists of the Companys Board as detailed on page 30.
Other senior management is defined as an employee who has responsibility for planning, direction or controlling the activities of the company, or a strategically significant part of the Total employees 578 68% 266 32% company, other than the Company Directors.
Employment and diversity: Hargreaves Lansdown proudly fosters a Professional development is actively encouraged and many of our staff working environment that wholly supports the principals of diversity and embark on professional qualifications to further their knowledge and equality and is committed to ensuring that everyone is treated with dignity careers within the Company.
In total we have supported 222 individuals to and respect.
We are an equal opportunities employer and it is our policy at least begin the process of studying for professional qualifications during to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly and on the 12 months ended 30 June 2014 and in the same period 171 staff have merit regardless of any discriminatory factor to ensure the Group attracts, sat and passed a professional exam and 124 completed a professional retains and promotes the best available talent.
The table above shows the qualification.
gender split at different levels within the organisation as at 30 June 2014: Each year we offer a number of university students the opportunity Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued employment to work in positions throughout the business during their professional and training, career development and promotion of disabled persons placement year.
A number of these students have subsequently returned by the Group.
If members of staff become disabled the Group continues to Hargreaves Lansdown in a full time capacity.
employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate retraining being given if necessary.
A full assessment of any disabled Competitive pay: Rewarding employees for their contribution and employees needs is undertaken and reasonable adjustments are made to performance is key to ensuring that we retain talented staff and to the work environment or practices in order to assist them.
fostering a positive culture whereby staff are proud to work here.
Further information on how we set remuneration packages is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment in which its employees can work.
We use Health and Safety We continue to focus on motivating and retaining our best staff.
The Board consultants on an ongoing basis to ensure that standards are maintained, believes the use of share schemes best aligns staff interests with those and the Health and Safety policy is made available to all staff via our of other shareholders.
During April 2014 we granted new options under a intranet.
SAYE scheme and now have 83.2% of eligible staff participating in one or more equity schemes.
This year the majority of employees also received Hargreaves Lansdown actively encourages employee involvement and an annual bonus related to the overall performance of the Group and consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed their own individual contribution.
We also retain and attract staff through of the Companys activities and financial performance by such means as the provision of training, career progression, good communication and the employee intranet and publication to all staff of relevant information a vibrant culture.
The continued growth and success of the organisation and corporate announcements.
During the year we undertook our first continues to create opportunities for staff.
Over 68% of our staff responded to the survey.
The results were positive and we have put in place action plans to address As a UK based organisation with clients and employees located within improvements where they are needed.
the UK we have not provided further information about any policies of the company in relation to human rights issues since it is not considered We have successfully implemented auto-enrolment, the introduction of necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or a compulsory employee pension contribution, to sit alongside the existing position of the Groups business activities.
employer contributions which Hargreaves Lansdown continues to make on behalf of its employees.
Recruitment and development: Our aim is to recruit at graduate, or entry, level with a strong emphasis on internal development.
We encourage internal moves within the business such that internal talent is used to fill new opportunities.
We believe that this fosters staff loyalty whilst at the same time building a strong team of future managers.
28 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
