Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Corporate social responsibility Key activities in 2014 CSR governance and compliance considering Group risks in the countries that are of potential concern from a human rights perspective, and reviewing the measures and controls in place to mitigate those risks: considering feedback from the regional Audit and CSR Karen fide Segundo committees and considering CSR-related internal audit reports Chairman of the CSR Committee andrecommendations, including in relation to the Groups approach toenvironmental, health and safety EHS issues: CSR Committee current members reviewing the Groups EHS strategy, measures, targets and Karen fide Segundo Chairman Dr Pedro Malan performance data: Sue Farr Dr Richard Tubb reviewing the progress of the Groups leaf strategy, aimed at Savio Kwan enhancing farmers livelihoods and sustainable agriculture: reviewing the potential reputational impact arising from incidents Attendance at meetings in 2014 ofnon-compliance with the Standards of Business Conduct: Member Attendance Eligible monitoring adherence to the Groups International Marketing Name since toattend Principles IMP : 1 Sue Farr 2015 n a reviewing the Groups youth smoking prevention YSP activities, 2 Savio Kwan 2014 2 2 and analysis of their global reach and impact: and 1 Dr Pedro Malan 2015 n a 3 reviewing the Groups corporate social investment strategy, Christine Morin-Postel 2012 n a plansand activities.
Karen fide Segundo 2008 2 2 Dr Richard Tubb 2013 2 2 Sustainability planning and reporting Notes: approving a revised Group Sustainability Agenda developed 1.
Sue Farr and Pedro Malan became members of the Committee on 2 February 2015 through a detailed materiality process: followingtheir appointments asNon-Executive Directors.
Savio Kwan became a member of the Committee on 6 January 2014 following his reviewing an update of the Groups stakeholder mapping appointment as a Non-Executive Director on that date.
and classification process and in line with the 2013 Board 3.
Christine Morin-Postel ceased to be a member of the Committee on 6 January 2014. evaluation action points, reviewed the results of the Group 2014 4.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Management Board members responsible for stakeholder map: Corporateand Regulatory Affairs and Global Operations regularly attend meetings by invitationbut are not members.
reviewing the 2013 Sustainability Summary and the two 5.
The Committee held two meetings in 2014.
Sustainability Focus Reports on harm reduction and supporting farmers livelihoods published on 3 and 17 November For the Committees terms of reference visit 2014 respectively: www.
com governance assessing progress against the Groups sustainability goals and commitments: and Role The CSR Committee monitors and reviews: considering the Groups 2015 sustainability reporting plans.
the Companys management of CSR and the conduct of business Group sustainability agenda in accordance with our Statement of Business Principles, making Our sustainability agenda is an integral part of delivering the Group appropriate recommendations to the Board on CSR matters: strategy.
The sustainability agenda aims to build shared value for our the effectiveness of the Groups strategy for, and management of, consumers, our shareholders and our stakeholders.
This concept of significant social, environmental and reputational issues: shared value underpins our whole approach.
the Groups sustainability plans and activities: and Through a detailed materiality process, including stakeholder dialogue and research, the Groups sustainability agenda was sharpened in the effectiveness of CSR governance including, on an exceptional 2014.
The new agenda covers the three key areas that have the basis, reports from the regional Audit and CSR committees.
greatest significance to our business and our stakeholders.
64 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements These are: The Company also recognises the role of business as a corporate citizen and Group companies have long supported local community harm reduction: we are committed to researching, developing and charitable projects.
The Groups approach to corporate social and promoting a range of innovative tobacco and nicotine investment CSI is to regard it as a means of maintaining good products to enable adult consumers to have a choice of less risky relationships with local communities, rather than as a means of alternatives toregular cigarettes: promotion.
Over the last five years, the Group has invested more sustainable agriculture and farmer livelihoods: we are committed than60 million in CSI activities worldwide.
to working toenable prosperous livelihoods for all farmers who Sustainability reporting supply our tobacco leaf, benefiting rural communitiesand the environment: and We are a major international business in a controversial sector, so it is particularly important that we demonstrate openness and build trust.
corporate behaviour: we are committed to operating to the highest standards of corporate conduct and transparency, benefiting The Company has produced independently assured reports since government, consumers, the environment and our people.
2001 and believes this long history of reporting demonstrates a serious commitment to transparency, corporate responsibility For information on our greenhouse gas emissions see and sustainability.
the sustainability section of our Strategic Report on pages 26 and 27 Our sustainability reporting aims to provide focused and integrated Upholding high standards and supporting sustainability communications for our stakeholders across different formats.
This includes an annual Sustainability Summary, regular Focus humanrights Reports and a dedicated online performance centre all independently A central part of being a sustainable business is operating with integrity assured by Ernst & Young LLP.
Effective governance is critical to ensuring that we live up to our principles and standards and also that we deliver on our The Sustainability Summary is published at the same time as the sustainability agenda.
We have clear policies and standards in place Companys Annual Report and covers our performance for the that set the standard for the way we do business and how we behave.
year across the key focus areas of our sustainability agenda.
This is complemented by our online Sustainability Performance Centre The Groups Statement of Business Principles sets out the expectations covering progress against our goals, data charts and our reporting for responsible management of the Groups business.
It was developed against the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 indicators.
in 2002 in consultation with stakeholders, supported by the Institute of Business Ethics.
Our Sustainability Focus Reports each cover specific topics and provide stakeholders with more in-depth information on the areas that interest The Statement comprises three principles Mutual Benefit, Responsible them most.
Product Stewardship and Good Corporate Conduct and 18 Core Beliefs explaining each principle in more detail.
To view our Sustainability Summary and Focus Reports visit www.
com sustainability To view our Statement of Business Principles visit www.
com governance External recognition Our Standards of Business Conduct are an integral part of the Groups As a result of the Groups progress in embedding sustainability governance and, together with our Business Principles, underpin our practices into its day-to-day business, British American Tobacco commitment to high standards of corporate responsibility.
While the has received notable external recognition in 2014.
This includes Statement of Business Principles sets out our beliefs and values as an maintaining its industry leadership position in the Dow Jones organisation, the Standards of Business Conduct apply those values Sustainability Indices DJSI and inclusion for the 13th consecutive and principles to specific situations that may arise in day-to-day year.
The Companys overall score was 89%, its highest ever score.
The Indices track the economic, environmental and social performance of leading  companies worldwide and are based When the UN published its Guiding Principles on Business and Human on the cooperation between Dow Jones Indices and RobecoSAM, Rights in 2011, it placed an expectation on governments and global asustainability investment specialist.
enterprise to address the role business plays in the promotion and protection of human rights.
In 2014, the Standards were updated to In RobecoSAMs Sustainability Yearbook we were named industry reflect a new policy area of workplace and human rights.
Although our leader and placed in the highest Gold Class category.
The Yearbook Group Employment Principles already reflected the business-relevant lists the worlds most sustainable companies in each industry as human rights components they lacked the status of a global policy.
determined by their score in the DJSI Assessment.
As a result our enhanced human rights provisions are now bound into We were also listed as a component of the STOXX Global ESG Leaders our internal compliance framework by way of Standards of Business indices, an innovative series of environmental, social and governance Conduct governance.
They underline the principles of workplace ESG equity indices owned by Deutsche Brse the German Stock human rights equality, diversity and mutual respect and supply Exchange.
This index model allows investors to understand which chain human rights, particularly with regard to our commitments to factors determine a companys ESG rating and why these factors support the elimination of child labour, exploitation of labour and are important.
respect for freedom of association.
In addition, we received top 10 global rankings in a number of For information on our approach to human rights see sustainability reporting awards.
the sustainability section of our Strategic Report on pages 26 and 27 65 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
