CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES THE BOARD ROGER YATES JONATHAN DAVIE SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 57 YEARS OLD NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, 67 YEARS OLD Roger joined the Board as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in February 2006, and has over 28 years Jonathan joined the Board as Chairman in January 2004.
He is currently a Nonexperience in the fund management industry, both as an investment professional and a business manager.
Roger Executive Director of Persimmon plc and Hansa Trust plc, and also Chairman brings a broad knowledge and understanding of investor issues and the financial services sector.
He previously of First Avenue, an alternatives advisory boutique.
Jonathan is a fellow of the served as Chief Investment Officer of Invesco Global, and has held senior roles at fund management firms LGT Institute of Chartered Accountants, and he joined George M. Hill and Co, a and Morgan Grenfell.
He joined Henderson Global Investors as Chief Executive in 1999, and in 2003 went on jobber on the London Stock Exchange, in 1969.
The firm was acquired by Wedd to lead its fide-merger from its then parent AMP.
He became Chief Executive of the resulting listed entity now Durlacher Mordaunt and Co in 1970, and he became a partner in 1975.
He Henderson Group plc until November 2008.
He has previously served as a Non-Executive Director for F&C Asset was the Senior Dealing Partner when the company was acquired by Barclays Management plc, and is currently a Non-Executive Director of St Jamess Place plc and JPMorgan Elect plc, as Bank to form BZW in 1986.
Jonathan developed BZWs fixed-income business well as Chairman of Electra Private Equity plc and Pioneer Global Asset Management SpA.
prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of the global equities division in 1991.
In 1996 he became Deputy Chairman of BZW, and was appointed Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston in 1998, on its acquisition of some of BZWs businesses from Barclays Bank.
Jonathans in-depth understanding of the financial services sector and extensive experience on PLC boards has proved STEPHEN HILL invaluable in promoting good governance and providing effective leadership NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 54 YEARS OLD of the Board.
He will be stepping down from the Board following the Annual General Meeting on 16 October 2014, having served as Chairman for ten years.
Stephen joined the IG Board in April 2011, bringing significant and extensive board experience across a wide range of businesses.
He was the CEO of Betfair plc from 2003 to 2005, and prior to this he spent 15 years at Pearson plc in various managerial roles, including serving as CEO of the Financial Times Group from 1996 to 2002 and on Pearsons management board.
He has been a member of the boards for Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc, Psion plc and Channel 4.
He was also Chairman of Interactive Data Corporation in the US from 1998 to 2002.
Currently he is Chairman and CEO of DAval Limited, his familys private investment TIM HOWKINS company, and Trustee and Chairman of the Royal National Institute for Deaf People Action on Hearing CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, 51 YEARS OLD Loss.
He is also a member of the Advisory Board of the Cambridge Judge Business School and a NonExecutive Director of Applerigg Limited and Aztec Limited, a fund administration business, and of Ofcom, the Tim was appointed Chief Executive Officer of IG in 2006, having served as independent regulator for the UK communications industries.
the Groups Finance Director since joining the company in 1999.
Tim qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young, and is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
In 1990 he was one of a group of partners and staff who left Ernst & Young to form Rees Pollock, a firm of Chartered SAM TYMMS Accountants targeted at entrepreneurial, owner-managed businesses.
He was NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 50 YEARS OLD a partner in Rees Pollock for seven years, and there developed a relationship with IG, taking responsibility for the Groups audit.
With a strong finance Sam joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in May 2013.
She is currently a Managing Director at background and a considerable number of years in the business, in his role Promontory Financial Group, a leading strategy, risk-management and  consulting firm, as our Chief Executive Tim continues to work with the Board and lead IG to where she advises financial services businesses on a wide range of risk and regulatory matters.
Sam began her develop and implement our strategy.
He is also a member of the Board and career in 1987 at the London Stock Exchanges Surveillance Division, which over time became the Securities Executive Committee of FIA Europe, formerly known as the Futures and Options and Futures Authority and eventually the Financial Services Authority.
During that time she held a range of Association.
Tim graduated from the University of Reading with a first-class supervisory roles and worked for two years in the Investigations and Enforcement Division.
As a supervisor, she degree in Mathematics and Computer Science.
ran departments overseeing global investment firms, retail and investment banks and major insurance groups.
Sams extensive experience in the regulatory field and her knowledge of compliance matters provide a valuable contribution to the Board.
CHRISTOPHER HILL MARTIN JACKSON CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, 43 YEARS OLD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 65 YEARS OLD Christopher joined the IG Board in April 2011 from Travelex, a group providing cross-border payment and Martin joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in April 2005.
A foreign exchange services to corporate and retail customers, where he served as Chief Financial Officer.
fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, Martin has wide experience in financial services, having held a A Chartered Accountant, Christopher has extensive finance and accounting experience from a number number of directorships in this sector.
He was Group Finance Director of Friends Provident plc between 2001- of different business sectors.
He has previously held roles at VWR International, a global laboratory- 2003, of Friends Provident Life Office from 1999- 2001 and of London & Manchester Group plc from 1992-1998, supply company 2005-2007, General Electric 2000-2005 and Arthur Andersen 1992-2000.
Christopher until the latter was acquired by Friends Provident Life Office.
In April 2014 Martin stepped down from the Board graduated from Oxford University with a degree in Modern History and is an associate member of the of Admiral Group plc, where he had served as a Non-Executive Director since August 2004 and was Chairman Association of Corporate Treasurers.
of the Group Risk Committee.
After nine years at IG, Martin will step down from the Board following the AGM on 16 October 2014.
PETER HETHERINGTON JIM NEWMAN CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, 45 YEARS OLD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 49 YEARS OLD Peter was an officer in the Royal Navy prior to joining IG Group as a graduate trainee in 1994.
In 1999 he Jim joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in October 2013.
He is currently Corporate Development became Head of Financial Dealing, and in 2002 he joined the Board following his appointment as Chief Director for Friends Life Group, where his responsibilities have included overseeing the final separation Operating Officer.
Peters considerable experience, built over 20 years in the business, is invaluable in his and integration of the UK life businesses acquired by Resolution plc, as well as the delivery of the overall role as Chief Operating Officer.
Peter graduated from Nottingham University with a degree in Economics, group change portfolio and strategic corporate development.
Prior to this Jim, who is a qualified Chartered and from the London Business School with a Masters in Finance.
Accountant, was Finance Director for Resolution plc, having joined the company in 2005 as Group Financial Controller.
Jim spent ten years at Aviva, where he was Group Integration Director for the CGU Norwich Union merger and also Finance Director of Norwich Union Life, Avivas UK life insurance business.
His in-depth knowledge and experience of the financial services sector, as well as his considerable experience both as a CFO and in the implementation of transformation programmes, is proving invaluable to the Board.
50 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 51 Corporate Governance Report | The Board CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES THE BOARD CONTINUED LEADERSHIP Approving any changes to the Groups risk management The Chairman, Jonathan Davie, is responsible for leading Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Executive policy which materially increase the Groups risk profile the Board and creating the right conditions for its effective Directors has failed to resolve, or when shareholders prefer ROLE OF THE BOARD working and overall governance.
He sets the Boards to speak directly to him.
Reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and The principal responsibility of the Board is to promote and agenda, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer risk management ensure the long-term success of the Group through the HOW THE BOARD OPERATES and Company Secretary, taking full account of Board creation and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
It Approving Board, Board committee and company The Board meets regularly at least five times a year and members issues and concerns and the need to allow provides guidance and leadership by setting the strategic secretarial appointments attends an additional off-site strategy day.
There were nine sufficient time for items on the agenda to be discussed.
direction of the Group and overseeing managements Board meetings this year, including the annual strategy day.
Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and It is the Chairmans responsibility to encourage and implementation of the strategy, within a framework of senior management facilitate active engagement by Directors, drawing on their The Board also meets when necessary to discuss important effective risk controls.
Defining and setting Board committee terms of reference skills, knowledge and experience.
The Chairman is also ad-hoc emerging issues that require consideration between The Board seeks to ensure that, while the ultimate focus is responsible for ensuring there is effective communication scheduled Board meetings.
Each Director committed an Approving policies relating to Directors remuneration on long-term growth, management also delivers on shortwith shareholders and other stakeholders, and that Directors appropriate amount of time to their duties during the and the severance of Directors contracts term objectives and achieves the right balance between are aware and maintain an understanding of their views.
financial year, and the Non-Executive Directors met the time Receiving reports on the views of the immediate and future goals.
When setting the Groups commitment specified in their letters of appointment.
Companys shareholders The Chief Executive Officer, Tim Howkins, is responsible strategy and monitoring its implementation, the Board for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board, The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet formally in considers the impact its decisions may have on various A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the implementing the agreed strategy and managing the the absence of the Executive Directors at least twice a year.
stakeholders, such as employees, shareholders, suppliers and Boards decision can be found on the Groups website.
day-to-day business of the Group.
This responsibility has the environment as a whole.
It is accountable for ensuring ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS Matters not specifically reserved for the Board are been delegated to him by the Board, and he is accountable that, as a collective body, it has the appropriate skills, The number of full Board meetings attended by each delegated to the Executive Directors.
These include: to the Board.
knowledge and experience to perform its role effectively.
Director during the year, including the Board strategy day, is Developing, recommending and implementing strategic The Executive Directors support the Chief Executive Officer set out below: The powers of the Board are set out in the Companys plans for the Group in implementing the Groups strategy and in the operational articles of association, which are available on the Groups Scheduled performance of the business.
Day-to-day monitoring of the Groups operating and website, iggroup.
The Board may exercise all powers meetings Scheduled financial results eligible to meetings conferred on it by the articles and in accordance with the The Non-Executive Directors are independent of Board attend attended Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation.
Prioritising the allocation of capital and resources management and are considered by the Board to be free from any business or other relationships which could Developing and implementing risk management systems, Chairman Certain key decisions and matters are reserved for compromise their independence.
Their role is to advise and policies and procedures Jonathan Davie 9 9 approval by the Board in order to ensure that it meets its constructively challenge management, along with monitoring responsibilities.
These include: Promoting good standards of corporate governance and Independent Non-Executive Directors managements success in delivering the agreed strategy shareholder engagement Stephen Hill 9 9 Setting Group strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by the Martin Jackson 9 9 BOARD STRUCTURE Board.
They are also responsible for determining appropriate Approving major acquisitions, divestments and Jim Newman 7 7 During the year, the Board had nine members the levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
capital expenditure Sam Tymms 9 9 Chairman, three Executive Directors, including the Approving expansion into new business or geographies Roger Yates is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Roger Yates 9 9 Chief Executive Officer, and five independent Director, and his role is to provide a sounding board for the Approving annual budgets Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Directors Chairman and support him in the delivery of his objectives.
Approving changes relating to the Groups capital Tim Howkins 9 9 The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and He serves as a trusted intermediary for the other Directors structure, including reduction of capital Peter Hetherington 9 9 the Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing and has been when necessary.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Reviewing operational and financial performance Christopher Hill 9 9 approved by the Board.
Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns Setting the risk appetite of the Group which communication via the normal channels of 52 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 53 Corporate Governance Report | The Board CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES THE BOARD CONTINUED HOW THE BOARD DISCHARGED ITS During the year, the Board decided to create the Board DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE SUCCESSION PLANNING AND APPOINTMENTS TO RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE YEAR Risk Committee in order to provide an appropriate level of The Board considers and reviews the independence of each THE BOARD During the year, the Board has been engaged across challenge and oversight for the Groups Risk Management Non-Executive Director on an annual basis, as part of the The Board uses succession planning to ensure that the the key areas of strategy, governance, risk and financial Framework.
The activities, role and responsibilities of this Board effectiveness review.
It considers factors such as Group is managed by executives with the necessary skills, performance, as highlighted in the following chart.
In committee are laid out and discussed in a report from its length of tenure and relationships or circumstances which experience and knowledge to deliver the Companys addition to regular reviews of performance, the Board Chairman, Stephen Hill, on page 94. are likely to affect or appear to affect the Directors strategy, and that it has the right balance of individuals to discussed risk appetite, capital and liquidity planning and judgment in determining whether they remain independent.
be able to discharge its responsibilities.
The Board regularly talent management, including succession planning.
The Following this years review, the Board concluded that all reviews its composition to keep it constantly refreshed.
Any EFFECTIVENESS Board also held an off-site strategy day to review strategic of the Non-Executive Directors continue to demonstrate searches for Board candidates, and appointments made, BOARD COMPOSITION options open to the Group in the context of the regulatory their independence.
are based on merit against objective criteria.
The Boards size, and the skills and experience of its and economic environment.
The Nomination Committee has specific responsibility for members, have a significant impact on its effectiveness.
COMPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE AND INDEPENDENT the appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors, The Board reviews these factors regularly to ensure that it BOARD ALLOCATION OF TIME NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE BOARD and it recommends new appointments to the Board.
has the right mix of skills and experience for constructive The Board as a whole is also involved in overseeing the discussion and, ultimately, effective Board decisions.
Quarterly forecast 1 Chairman development of management resources across the Group.
and budget 1 INDUSTRY BACKGROUND EXPERIENCE 3 Executive Directors Strategy Number of LENGTH OF TENURE OF Non-Executive 5 Independent NonNON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Business, operational Directors and Executive Directors highlights and current Non-Executive trading Experience Chairman 2 0-3 years Risk and governance Financial services 6 1 3-6 years Accountancy finance expert 3 Financial performance 6-9 years 2 Regulatory 2 Client money Marketing and PR 1 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Current or recent Chief Executive 3 Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which Other Officer and or Chairman they may have interests that conflict with those of the Prior plc experience 5 Company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the BOARD COMMITTEES Board.
Directors must disclose both the nature and extent 1 Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories.
To assist it with carrying out its responsibilities and to ensure of any potential or actual conflicts with the interests of INDUCTION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT that there is independent oversight of internal control There is an appropriate combination of Executive Directors the Company.
On joining the Board, each new Director receives a full and and risk, the Board has delegated certain governance and Non-Executive Directors, such that no individual formal induction to familiarise them with their duties and responsibilities to Board committees.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards the Companys business operations, risk and governance articles of association allow the Board to authorise potential decision-making.
The Board committees are: arrangements.
The induction programme, which is conflicts that may arise, and to impose such conditions or coordinated by the Company Secretary, includes briefings During the year, the Company was headed by an Audit Committee limitations as it sees fit.
During the year, potential conflicts on regulatory matters relating to the Company, as well experienced Board of nine Directors, comprising an were considered by the Board and approved where Nomination Committee as meetings with senior management in key areas of the independent Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive appropriate.
The Company keeps records of Board minutes Remuneration Committee business, such as compliance, legal, IT, human resources, Directors, including the Group Chief Executive Officer, and detailing authorisations granted.
finance, risk, marketing and investor relations.
These are Board Risk Committee five independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom supplemented by induction materials such as recent Board is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
During These Board committees comprise independent Nonpapers and minutes and relevant company policies.
Newly the year Jim Newman joined the Board, on 1 October 2013, Executive Directors and, in some cases, the Chairman.
Each appointed Directors also meet the companys external as a Non-Executive Director.
The Company is fully compliant committee has agreed terms of reference approved by the auditors and corporate brokers and attend a presentation with Code provision B.
1.2, which requires that at least half Board, which are available on our corporate website.
led by Linklaters on the roles and responsibilities of a UKof the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise listed company director.
The Chairman of each Board committee reports to the Non-Executive Directors who are determined by the Board Board on the matters discussed at committee meetings, to be independent.
Inductions are tailored to each Directors individual and the minutes of each committee meeting are made experience, background and areas of focus.
For example, available to all Directors.
Reports from the Chairman of each Jim Newmans induction programme took into account his Board committee, including information on the committees planned role replacing Martin Jackson as Chairman of the composition and activities in the year, can be found in Audit Committee on the latters departure from the Board.
the sections relating to each committee within this Annual Report.
54 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 55 Corporate Governance Report | The Board CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES THE BOARD CONTINUED Ongoing professional development and training is BOARD EVALUATION ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Non-Executive important, given the rapidly changing environment in which We conduct an annual evaluation of the Boards Director, is available to meet shareholders on request, The Board recognises the importance of maintaining the Group operates.
All Directors are given regular updates effectiveness.
This year, it took the form of an internal and also ensures that the Board is aware of shareholder good communication with the Companys shareholders, on changes and developments in the business and on any assessment aiming to improve the Boards performance concerns not resolved through other communication and we have a comprehensive programme to facilitate this relevant legislative, regulatory and governance changes.
The assessment process involved the use mechanisms.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent each year.
of a questionnaire covering the Boards composition Non-Executive Director provide feedback to the Board on The Chairman ensures that the Directors continually update and processes and its activities and behaviours.
During Our Annual Report is an important medium for any views or concerns expressed to them by shareholders.
and refresh their skills and knowledge, and independent this process, the Board reviewed its progress against communicating with shareholders, setting out detailed professional advice is provided when required, at the the findings arising from its self-evaluation in the 2013 reviews of the business and its future developments in the Companys expense.
Particular progress has been made in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Review INFORMATION PROVIDED TO THE BOARD areas of Board induction on appointment and in ensuring and the Strategic Report.
All Directors have access to the advice and services appropriate processes, such as the use of experts, are in Our dialogue with institutional investors and shareholders of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the place to facilitate complex judgments.
is ongoing, and includes presentations by management Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed The 2014 financial year evaluation concluded that the Board around the time of the Groups year-end and half-year and compliance with applicable rules and regulations is was operating effectively as a unitary body.
These are coordinated by our observed.
The Company Secretary also ensures appropriate things, it was felt that the Board and the Board committees Investor Relations team.
We make these presentations and timely information flows within and to the Board and its are effectively constituted.
The level of discussion and the available in real time on the Groups website, which also committees, enabling the Board to exercise its judgment quality of debates at Board meetings are considered to provides a wide range of other information to shareholders and make fully informed decisions when discharging be of a high calibre.
The strategic aims of the Company and prospective shareholders.
We also respond to ad hoc its duties.
are effectively set by the Board, and the Board creates a requests from shareholders on a very regular basis.
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in setting performance culture that drives value without exposing the The Chairman and Executive Directors hold meetings the Board agenda, and Board papers are distributed to Company to excessive risks.
with the Companys largest institutional shareholders and all Directors in advance of Board meetings via a secure While these findings indicated that overall the Board was market analysts to discuss governance, business strategy electronic system.
Directors receive financial and risk operating effectively, and that each Director continued and financial performance.
Non-Executive Directors are information on the company on a monthly basis, and they to demonstrate commitment to the role, we recognise also available to meet with institutional shareholders when receive briefings from the Chief Executive Officer in the the need to increase the level of focus on the long-term required.
During the year, Roger Yates met with major periods between meetings.
composition of the Board and the review of management shareholders to discuss the Groups remuneration policy in RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS information received by the Board.
In addition, plans will his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that all be put in place to ensure the Board plays a more active Following all investor presentations and meetings, feedback directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject role in talent management and succession planning below is passed to the Board on any opinions or concerns to annual election by shareholders.
Each Director and Board level.
The Directors receive regular the Board as a whole excluding Andy Green, who was We will report on our progress against these updates on shareholder views, as well as analysts reports appointed after 31 May 2014 underwent a performance recommendations in next years Annual Report.
on market perception of the Groups performance and evaluation during the course of the year.
Following this, strategy, and are made aware of the financial expectations all Directors with the exception of Jonathan Davie The performance of the individual Executive Directors, of the Group from the outside market.
and Martin Jackson, who will be stepping down at the other than the Chief Executive Officer, is appraised annually Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on by the Chief Executive Officer, to whom they report.
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to 16 October 2014, will stand for re-election or in the case The Chief Executive Officers performance is appraised communicate with private and institutional investors, and of Andy Green, election as relevant at the AGM.
annually by the Chairman, and the Chairmans performance we welcome their participation.
We send the Annual Report is reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors.
They are led and notice of the AGM to shareholders, or make them by Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Non-Executive available on the Groups website, at least 20 working days Director, and take into account feedback from the before the date of the meeting.
The Notice of AGM sets Executive Directors.
out a clear explanation of each resolution to be proposed at the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to ask The UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial questions and, if they are unable to attend, can submit Reporting Councils guidance on board effectiveness written queries in advance of the meeting.
At the meeting, require the Board to evaluate its performance annually, we will make available to shareholders full details of the and recommend that this evaluation should be externally proxy votes received on each resolution, and we will also facilitated every three years.
In 2012, the Board publish these on the Companys website on the same commissioned an independent external Board effectiveness day.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all the Directors, facilitator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, who has no including the Chairmen of the Board committees, are other connection to the Company, to assist in an evaluation available at the AGM to answer questions.
In 2015, the Board will again use an external facilitator for this purpose.
56 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 57 Corporate Governance Report | The Board CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES NOMINATION COMMITTEE Scheduled meetings Scheduled eligible to meetings attend attended Chairman of the Nomination Committee 1 Jonathan Davie 3 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors Martin Jackson 6 6 Jim Newman 3 3 Roger Yates 6 6 Jonathan Davie, Chairman of the Nomination Committee, gives his review of the committees 1 Jonathan Davie did not attend meetings relating to the search for a activities during the financial year.
the committee members other than myself, the recommendations, as set out in his report on Women on CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW ACTIVITY DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors.
Boards, the Nomination Committee has not set a specific In 2013, we announced that Martin Jackson and I will be The committees purpose is to ensure that the Boards target for female representation on the Board.
We continue stepping down from the Board, as Non-Executive Director As the current Chairman of the Company, I did not chair composition, in terms of structure, size, skills and to appoint on merit, based on the skills and experience and Chairman respectively, at the Annual General Meeting the Nomination Committee meetings and discussions experience, meets the Companys needs.
We maintain and required for membership of our Board, while giving AGM in October 2014.
The committee therefore put into leading to the appointment of the new Chairman.
After implement an effective succession plan to ensure that the consideration to gender diversity when the committee action a succession-planning process for both roles.
extensive interviews and a due diligence exercise, the Board is progressively refreshed.
This year, our attention reviews the Boards composition.
For appointments to the committee recommended to the Board the appointment has centred on the appointment of a new Non-Executive We engaged an external search agency to support Board, we use executive search firms who have signed up to of Andy Green as Chairman Designate.
The Board took Director to replace Martin Jackson and the search, led by us in appointing a Non-Executive Director to replace the voluntary code of conduct setting out the key principles into account Andys wealth of corporate experience and Roger Yates, for a replacement Chairman.
The latter was Martin Jackson, both as a Non-Executive Director and as of best practice in the recruitment process.
These principles in-depth knowledge of leading-edge technology and essential to ensure an orderly succession on my retirement Chairman of the Audit Committee.
JCA Group, which has include a recommendation that search firms should consider marketing when making its decision on his appointment.
from the Board in October 2014. no other connection with the Company, assisted with the gender diversity when drawing up a shortlist of candidates.
Following regulatory approval by the Financial Conduct recruitment process and conducted an extensive search COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Authority, we were pleased to announce in June 2014 that and benchmarking exercise.
We provided a brief setting The committee consists of independent Non-Executive Andy would join the Board as Deputy Chairman, and will out the role specification and the desired skills, knowledge Directors and meets as necessary to consider appointments NOMINATION COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME succeed me as Chairman at the AGM in October 2014. and experience to the search consultants, who identified to the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer also attends, but a shortlist of potential candidates.
Following detailed due Succession planning In addition to overseeing appointments to the Board, the is not involved in decisions relating to his own succession.
diligence and an extensive interview process by members committee also reviewed the membership of the Board Board composition ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE of the committee, we selected Jim Newman as the most committees during the year.
Following the committees The responsibilities of the committee are to: suitable and preferred candidate, on the basis of his strong recommendation, and with the Boards approval, background in finance and understanding of UK financial Stephen Hill stepped down as a member of the Audit Review the composition of the Board and Board governance.
Jims experience of financial services regulation Committee and was appointed Chairman of the newly committees to ensure that they are appropriately complements the Groups business strategy and activity, created Board Risk Committee.
balanced in terms of skills, knowledge and experience and is highly relevant to the markets in which we operate.
Ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent We recommended his appointment to the Board, and he The Nomination Committee recommended to the Board procedure for the appointment of new Directors formally took up his position on 1 October 2013. that the committee would benefit from an additional Recommend appointments to the Board member.
As a result, Jim Newman was appointed as a During the year, the committee also began the search for member of the Nomination Committee in December 2013.
Ensure that plans are in place for orderly succession, a new Chairman, with the process being led by for appointments to the Board and to other senior DIVERSITY POLICY Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Non-Executive management positions As a business, we are committed to maintaining a diverse Director.
We appointed the Zygos Partnership, an executive Jonathan Davie workforce at all levels across the Company, and more search firm, to assist us.
The Zygos Partnership has no other The Terms of Reference of the committee are available on Chairman, Nomination Committee information on how we do this can be found in the Our connection with the Company.
The committee, along with the Groups website, iggroup.
22 July 2014 People section, on page 27. the Board, agreed the specification for the role.
This was based on objective criteria, including the skills, experience, The Directors understand the significant benefits that knowledge and capabilities required for the role of come with having a diverse Board.
We also specified that candidates must be able importance of gender diversity on the Board, however to give the necessary time commitment to the role.
The we believe that diversity is a wider issue and also includes Zygos Partnership prepared a list of potential candidates, variations in experience, skills, personal attributes and following which a shortlist of individuals were interviewed by background.
While the Board supports Lord Davies 58 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 59 Corporate Governance Report | Nomination Committee CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Scheduled meetings Scheduled eligible to meetings attend attended Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Roger Yates 6 6 Independent Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Davie 6 6 Roger Yates, Chairman of the Remuneration Stephen Hill 6 6 Committee, gives his review of the committees Martin Jackson 6 6 activities during the financial year.
CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW too highly geared, with very high upside potential linked dividend payout ratio to approximately 70% of earnings for The committee believes shareholders deserve thorough to exceptional growth, but with insufficient emphasis on the financial year 2014 from the current level of 60%, while disclosure on remuneration.
To this end, the Company has On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the driving sustained, reliable performance.
Also, due to the retaining a progressive dividend policy in the future.
set out extensive explanation of the judgments it has made Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended high upside potential in the VSP, base salaries had fallen in making the above awards.
This disclosure is set out in the 31May 2014, which, in accordance with the new reporting REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2014 behind, at 80-90% of mid-market levels.
In reducing the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 75. regulations, is split into two parts: upside gearing in the VSP it was also essential to address For the 2014 plan year, the Executives will receive awards The committee has worked over the past 18 months to The Directors Remuneration Policy report sets out the the relatively uncompetitive nature of the base salaries.
under the SPP with a face value of 2.7 x base salary, ensure that the recent changes to the Executive Directors remuneration policy and framework for 2014 and beyond, representing 54% of maximum possible award.
We believe As a result of the review, the committee recommended remuneration policy support the Groups strategy and which will be subject to a binding vote at this years this award is reflective of the 2014 performance and several changes which were disclosed in last years Notice of objectives over the longer term and reflect the sustained, Annual General Meeting AGM business context as set out above.
AGM and supported by shareholders: strong performance of the Group and its executive team.
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out the Given the level of consultation with shareholders during The establishment of a new, simpler remuneration policy, The 2014 award under the SPP is driven by three measures: remuneration paid to Directors in respect of the the remuneration review, we hope you continue to be with a single incentive plan the sustained performance 2014 financial year, together with details of how the Earnings Per Share EPS 45% of the maximum potential supportive of the remuneration policy we introduced last plan SPP to replace both the existing annual bonus remuneration policy will be implemented for 2015, which award.
The EPS target range for 2014 was set by the year and of our implementation of such for 2014. and the VSP for the Executive Directors.
The SPP is will be subject to an advisory vote at this years AGM committee at 37.50 pence to 42.00 pence, with a linear entirely share-based, with a lower maximum award size relationship in between.
Our actual EPS of 40.18 pence IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION In addition to the two votes referred to above, a separate 5 x base salary for maximum performance than the resulted in 59.6% of this portion being granted POLICY FOR 2015 resolution is being put forward which will permit the combined previous plans, and with extended vesting Total Shareholder Return TSR 35% of the maximum Company to use newly issued shares when satisfying awards periods up to seven years For 2015, the committee will use the same three metrics potential award.
The Company achieved a TSR of 19%, under the existing long-term incentive plan LTIP, subject described above, in the same proportions.
Accordingly, EPS The introduction of minimum shareholding guidelines for which ranked the Company slightly above the median to the existing 10% in ten years dilution limit covering all will drive 45%, TSR will drive 35% and non-financial metrics Executive Directors 2 x base salary for the Chief Executive of the peer group, resulting in 27% of this portion our share plans.
This limit has previously been agreed with will drive 20% of the maximum potential award.
Officer and 1 x base salary for other Executive Directors being granted shareholders for other share plans.
Executive Directors are Salary increases of 7.5% for all Executive Directors, effective In relation to the EPS targets, the committee has ensured a not eligible to participate in this LTIP: it applies to selected Non-financial metrics 20% of maximum potential award.
1 June 2013, in order to bring the Directors closer to midsufficiently stretching range has been set by taking account individuals in key manager roles below Board.
Full details The committee looks at the Companys execution and market levels against FTSE 250 companies of a similar size of a number of internal and external reference points.
The will be provided in the Notice of AGM.
delivery of key strategic initiatives and performance target range will be disclosed in next years report.
against key quantitative and qualitative non-financial The committees recommendations were supported by over CHANGES IN OUR PAY STRUCTURE metrics.
This year, the performance against these metrics 90% of shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
We are grateful to I hope that you will be supportive of the remuneration APPROVED LAST YEAR was strong and resulted in a 90.5% achievement level shareholders for their trust and support in this vote.
resolutions to be proposed at the next AGM.
If in the As I reported in last years Remuneration Report, the meantime you have any questions regarding our remuneration We remind shareholders that the SPP is the Companys only THE BUSINESS CONTEXT IN 2014 committee has spent significant time over the past two policy then my colleagues and I on the Remuneration Executive Director incentive plan for 2014, and has replaced years reviewing its executive remuneration policy.
The Committee would be pleased to consider them.
The current year saw IG invest significantly in longer-term both the annual bonus and long-term incentive plans.
goal of the review was to assess whether IGs executive strategic projects, including the launch of stockbroking, In addition, the Executive Directors will receive a small remuneration structure supports the business strategy and expansion into Switzerland and increased emphasis on vesting from their 2011 VSP awards.
Full details of these encourages the delivery of safe and sustainable growth in mobile technology.
Against this backdrop, revenue for 2014 awards are set out on page 81. long-term shareholder value.
The high-level conclusion of was 370.4 million, which represents a 2.4% increase on 2013, this review was that the structure in place between 2010 Roger Yates and diluted earnings per share increased by 3.6% to 40.18 Finally, the committee has recommended a 3% base salary and 2013 was no longer aligned with an organisation at Chairman, Remuneration Committee pence per share.
Own funds increased by 60.4 million and, increase for the Executive Directors to take effect from IGs stage of development.
The long-term incentive plan 22 July 2014 in recommending a total dividend of 28.15 pence, an increase 1 June 2014.
To provide some context, the general increase known as the value-sharing plan VSP, in particular, was of 21.1%, the Board is proposing an increase in the ordinary for employees across the Group is expected to be around 4%.
60 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 61 Corporate Governance Report | Remuneration Committee
