24 International Personal Finance plc RESPONSIBLE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Creating a sustainable business Corporate sustainability is a core part of our ability to meet ambitious future growth targets.
CUSTOMERS The relationship we have with our customers is fundamental to the sustainable success of our business.
We know that to maintain an ongoing relationship with our ETHICS customers we need to treat them fairly.
Our business model is oriented We believe it is important to Our Hungarian business won towards financial inclusion and we ensure that we are acting Excellence in Customer Service pride ourselves on helping to finance ethically at all times.
We provide Award 2014 in both the personal opportunities for customers who a clear template to employees service and call centre categories.
have limited access to credit through our Code of Ethics and elsewhere.
place a great emphasis on communicating with, and Our product is tailored to the needs We take responsible lending seriously.
training, employees through the of our customers: we provide Agent reward is based on use of real-life ethical dilemmas.
transparent loans with clear repayments collected and the We are committed to human guidance at the outset on how face-to-face visits with their customers rights and make an annual much the customer will repay.
We allow them to make informed communication on progress practise forbearance when a assessment on affordability through our membership of the customer may have temporary supported by credit scoring systems.
difficulty in making a loan repayment and customers who take our home service have the reassurance that 95% they will not incur default charges.
employees have completed ethics training Strategic Report 25 PAGE TITLE OUR PEOPLE We employ 8,260 people and safety and are certified against engage with a further 30,000 agents ISO18001 in our businesses in Poland, in order to deliver loans to our the Czech Republic, Slovakia, customers.
We are committed to Hungary and Romania.
Our attracting and retaining the best remaining businesses are planning people regardless of gender, age, assessments in 2015. religion, race, sexual orientation or disability.
We know that each of our 22% employees is vital to making IPF an ethical and sustainable business.
We female representation at Board level are focussed on building and in 2014 maintaining a positive culture which places an emphasis on responsible lending, our corporate values and making a difference in the lives of our customers.
We manage health and OTHER STAKEHOLDERS 49 As part of running a sustainable business we listen to the views of our Customer service score stakeholders and integrate this feedback into our business planning.
We have a comprehensive 11,500 programme of engagement customer views captured including stakeholder roundtables COMMUNITY through YouGov research on around the business as well as financial wellbeing and one-to-one engagement.
Our Group Investing in our local communities inclusion roundtable was hosted by the gives us a great platform to engage Institute of Business Ethics in 2014. with employees, customers and local authorities.
We place a strategic focus on promoting financial literacy as we believe it is important to support responsible lending through ENVIRONMENT financial education.
We are committed to reducing our impact on the natural environment 700,000 through responsible resource use.
We invested in local communities in have initiatives throughout the 2014, totalling 5 million since 2008 business aimed at saving money and streamlining processes through reducing usage in the areas that 16,700 have the most significant environmental impacts: fuel for volunteering hours donated in our business travel, paper purchased local communities in 2014 and energy.
IS014001 Robust Environmental Management System audited internally against ISO14001 -12.3% reduction in scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions per customer in 2014 meaning that we are on track to reach our three-year objective
