26 International Personal Finance plc RESPONSIBLE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY continued The research also shows that the vast majority of customers surveyed borrow Our Our responsibly and take their repayment obligations seriously.
The fundamental question of affordability lies at the customers people heart of decision-making, which is well-considered.
Our approach to home credit lending always requires face-to-face customer contact before and people strategy making a lending decision and complements our customers prudent approach to borrowing.
We are committed to supporting CUSTOMERS AND Key research highlights % the growth and development of our RESPONSIBLE LENDING people in order to fulfil our growth I think carefully before I borrow and transformation ambitions.
We consider our customers and our 92 people to be the most important Our culture, vision and capabilities stakeholders for the sustainable clearly define the behaviours and I tend to use credit on impulse success of our business and, as such, environment that are needed to 17 take a proactive stance with both deliver our Strategy for Growth.
We groups to ensure that they are are bringing our capabilities to life I usually borrow as much treated fairly and that we are through our Leading for Growth as the lender will allow me meeting their current and future development programme.
and Organisation Planning ensures I never borrow more than I know our people strategy reflects our We take responsible lending seriously.
I can repay without difficulty Strategy for Growth so we are able It is in the interests of both our 82 to identify high potential individuals business and our customers to Source: YouGov and to understand how we ensure they do not borrow more than can enhance and support our they can afford to repay.
face-to-face visits with our customers CUSTOMERS IDENTIFYING to allow our agents to make informed Our people strategy focusses on assessments on affordability.
SUSTAINABLE OPPORTUNITIES creating a culture of high engagement, identifying and Our segmentation research, which nurturing talent and empowering FINANCIAL WELL-BEING involved 3,000 customers and people to be the best they can be: 6,000 other consumers, is helping AND INCLUSION from our senior leaders through to to define their needs so we can our operational teams of We conduct regular research to serve existing customers better and employees and agents.
understand our customers: how identify how we can appeal to new they view their economic outlook, consumer segments.
their financial holdings, their use of The results suggest that we would credit services and their standard of be better able to serve the needs living.
In our latest research we and wants of a certain segment collected the opinions of 11,500 of consumers with a digital product.
This led to the launch of hapiloans The majority of respondents say it in Poland.
We are ensuring that would be difficult for them to we bring our ethical values, access credit via a mainstream including forbearance and a fair bank or lender: 52% say it would be and transparent pricing structure difficult or impossible and 23% say to this new business.
We believe that In the medium term we believe that everyone has the right to access segmentation research will be useful credit if they have the ability and in supporting a number of areas disposition to meet their repayment including product development, obligations.
We pride ourselves on people training and development providing access to credit for those and community investment.
Strategic Report 27 OUR THREE AREAS OF FOCUS: 1.
Resourcing for the future Bringing in new capabilities to resource our T4G programme and a new digital focus.
Achieving greater diversity to reflect our international business and our current and future customer base.
Building a robust and deep talent pipeline to support growth.
Ensuring there is dedicated resource in place for major initiatives.
DIVERSITY HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICS 2.
Development We are committed to employing We are committed to human rights Leading for Growth: A two-year a diverse workforce and are and publish an annual development programme that helps encouraging this diversity through Communication on Progress as part our leaders to understand and role our talent development programmes of our membership of the United model behavioural excellence to as well as through recruitment Nations Global Compact which can drive the sustainable growth of processes.
Three out of four be found at www.
participants on our Credit Graduate sustainability.
Our values and Code Programme are female and we have of Ethics provide a statement of our Aspire: A two-year programme 34% female representation on our principles in this area and these are aimed at accelerating the Aspire leadership development communicated to employees, built progression of those identified as programme.
Within our local into our training programmes and being in succession for key roles management boards we have are integrated into policies, processes in the organisation.
24% female representation and we and mechanisms.
We are aware that We are developing a wider resource recruited a number of new female our human rights and ethics pool by introducing specific management board members considerations will evolve as the programmes such as the Credit in2014.
business grows and new products Graduate Programme and Finance are launched so we are establishing Gender split 2014 Female Male Future Leaders Programme.
Ethics Working Groups in each of our Board 2 7 businesses on an ongoing basis, 3.
Organisation design Senior reporting into the Reputation and We are maximising the benefits managers 79 200 Regulation Committee.
We also and opportunities of our T4G All other provide employees with access to a and acquisition programmes by employees 6,392 4,422 confidential whistle-blowing hotline to ensuring that future technology ensure that any concerns can be includes agents in Hungary improvements are aligned to a escalated appropriately.
28 International Personal Finance plc RELEVANT Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report 29 3 Relevant Our home credit business model is valued by our customers but as consumers increasingly adopt new technologies and interact with businesses via smart phones and tablets, we are modernising our business to meet changing customer demands and to make the most of future opportunities to build a long-term sustainable business.
In this section T4G in action 30 Capturing digital opportunities 31 Mexico fulfilling the promise 32
