22 Strategic report Our sustainablity performance We recognise that we can do more and in the past year have Sustainability is at the heart of launched a new health strategy across the business.
Moving forward we intend to take a leading role in the soft drinks industry in inspiring our business.
We balance the and encouraging people to make informed choices to live healthier need to remain commercially and more active lives.
successful, with the need to Among our future commitments, we intend to reduce the average calories per serve across our portfolio by a further 20% by 2020.
We make a positive contribution to will use the power of our brands to inspire 20 million people to actively play together and we will clearly label the calorie content on pack society and limit our impact on anywhere in the world.
We are also reviewing our marketing to natural resources.
children policy and will be launching a new responsible marketing code in the coming year.
We measure our performance annually through Supporting our communities the Business in the Community CR Index.
We are This year our charitable donations totalled over 900,000 in cash, our proud of the progress we are making but there is peoples time and product donations.
We continued to partner more to do.
Last year we achieved a one star rating Cancer Research UK, our corporate partner chosen by our as a result of our BITC CR Index submission.
Our employees and have raised funds for them via our monthly company ambition is to achieve four stars by 2020. charity lottery, via donation stations and have run a number of site fundraising days and events.
We have also partnered young peoples Find out more about our sustainable business programme at charity, Street League and sponsored a number of employability www.
In Ireland, Ballygowan featured a cause related If you would like a copy of our sustainable business report write to: marketing campaign for the Irish Cancer Society.
Director of Corporate Affairs Our employees have made a significant contribution to local Britvic plc communities by volunteering and supporting deserving causes.
Our Breakspear Park community volunteering policy aims to support local communities by Breakspear Way encouraging employees to take two hours per month or up to three Hemel Hempstead paid days leave to volunteer.
Our current employee participation rate HP2 4TZ is 18%, and we are continually looking at developing new and exciting ways to encourage more of our workforce to make a difference in this way, including supporting our award winning educational initiatives at our Britvic Learning Zones.
Creating a great place to work for our employees Our people are key to the success of our business and we are committed to making Britvic an inspiring place to be.
All business units took part in the Great Place to Work survey for the first time this year and have plans in place to drive improvements.
Our employees are an important community to us and we recognise that a key component in maintaining work-life-balance is that employees feel they have both the time and opportunity to take part in activities that are outside of their daily role and that support them in enjoying lifes everyday moments.
This year we created an Employee Community Fund to support Our sustainability priorities community and healthy lifestyle activities at each of Britvics GB sites.
Consumer health The fund has been used for charity fundraising days, site family Consumer health is an issue in many of the markets in which we events and onsite exercise classes or facilities.
We believe that all of our drinks can be enjoyed as part of a proved a big hit with employees and their families and succeeded in balanced diet and healthy lifestyle however we have continued to raising more than 1,400 for our charity partner Cancer Research UK.
support key voluntary initiatives, including the UK governments Public We also launched our Sustainable Business Awards to recognise and Health Responsibility Deal.
In the past year we have withdrawn full reward those employees making a special effort to help us achieve sugar Fruit Shoot from the UK market and we have continued to our goal of making a real difference to our communities and or promote our low calorie variants.
In Ireland we launched Club Zero.
In helping us reduce our environmental impacts.
addition we have continued to encourage active lifestyles through our marketing campaigns, including our sponsorships of the Tour fide France and Wimbledon tennis championships and our Fruit Shoot skills campaign for children.
Strategic r Strategic report eport Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Our sustainablity performance continued 23 We are committed to continuous emissions reductions and have set Encouraging disadvantaged young people to ourselves a 20% reduction in direct greenhouse gas emissions ratio develop new skills by 2020.
This year we successfully achieved a 9% absolute reduction Our long standing commitment to helping disadvantaged young people in Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions and nearly a 7% reduction relative remained a key focus of our sustainable business strategy in 2014. to our production.
Through our Learning Zone programmes we continued to support The table below sets out the quantities of greenhouse gas emissions work-related learning with an award winning teacher training course in in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e for the 52 weeks ended enterprise, and a dedicated student course focusing on employability 2 28 September 2014.
The table also contains last years emissions to skills for the 14 age group.
Since 2009 these have trained over 400 demonstrate our progress.
Please note these figures have changed teachers and 12,000 students across our five Learning Zones.
since our last Annual Report disclosure as we have been through a Water stewardship validation process.
Responsible water use is a growing concern across the world with We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the increasing numbers of people without access to clean water.
We Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports recognise we have a responsibility to manage our water use prudently Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial and have set long term water reduction targets.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources reach a water intensity ratio of 1.4, meaning for every litre of soft drink that are not included in our consolidated statement.
Emissions we produce we use 1.4 litres of water.
This year we have successfully outside of our responsibility, including shared office locations and reduced our water intensity by 17.8% on last year, achieving 1.93 those originating from our franchise partners, have been omitted from across the group.
This achievement was a result of a renewed focus our disclosure.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate on the importance of water conservation with numerous sites Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission investing in technology and monitoring equipment to better factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company understand our water use profile.
Climate change Packaging waste The threat of climate change is ever present and this year we have Packaging, its use and ultimate disposal, is an important focus of our witnessed numerous unprecedented extreme weather events across sustainable business programme.
We strive to reduce the the globe, including the winter floods in the UK and extended environmental impact of our packaging whilst ensuring our packaging heatwaves in Australia and Brazil.
These events act as a reminder of protects our products effectively.
how unpredictable our climate can be and how important it is to minimise our contribution to climate change.
We continue to support the Courtauld Commitment and adopt a zero waste mindset at our sites.
This year we have reduced the amount of We are delighted to have achieved CarbonNeutral business travel waste produced by 10% within our GB manufacturing sites and have certification provided by The CarbonNeutral Company.
This year we achieved a recycling rate of 90%.
We continued to send zero waste have successfully offset our GB business travel emissions 4,790 tonnes to landfill within GB.
of CO, through two environmental projects which would not happen 2 without vital funding.
Our emission reduction projects include a methane capture project in China and a conservation project in the Amazon rainforest.
2013-2014 Emissions 2012-2013 Emissions Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 CO e emissions 60,669 66,756 2 Emissions from: Scope 1: Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities 17,965 22,402 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased 42,704 44,354 for our own use Scope 3: Downstream transportation & distribution, business 111,431 112,618 travel, downstream leased assets refrigeration portfolio Excludes business travel for Ireland and Excludes business travel for Ireland & France downstream transportation in France and downstream transportation in France Intensity measure: Scope 1 & 2 emissions reported above normalised to per 32.5 Tonnes CO e 1000 Tonne 34.9 Tonnes CO e 1000 Tonne 2 2 thousand tonne of product output produced produced Notes: 1.
Emissions relate to those generated by our manufacturing and distribution sites in GB, Ireland and France.
Emissions outside of our responsibility and under the control of a third party have also been excluded.
24 Strategic report Our sustainablity performance continued Responsible sourcing Human rights Our responsible sourcing programme has been in place since 2011 Our human rights policy is set out in our Ethical Business Policy.
This and continues to ensure our products are sourced and manufactured applies to our employees, our suppliers and partners and anyone in a fair, ethical and environmentally responsible manner.
working on behalf of our business.
It covers avoiding bribery and corruption, conducting business with respect, integrity and equality This year we have successfully embedded our responsible sourcing and managing personal activities and interests.
It also covers programme within the procurement team, with buyers having clear responsible trading and sets out our standards regarding human objectives for its delivery and have begun the process of extending rights, health & safety and environmental responsibilities and what we the programme through our supply chain.
This year we successfully expect of our suppliers and other trading partners, which are achieved our target of 30% of high risk GB Ireland direct suppliers monitored through our responsible sourcing programme.
We run a confidential whistle blowing hotline for anyone who is concerned about a breach of the policy.
All our employees from the board down are trained and required to complete an on-line test to ensure compliance to the policy.
Read our Ethical Business Policy at http: www.
co. uk en Sustainable-business Policies-and-Reports .
aspx Our sustainable business performance Focus FY14 Target FY14 Performance Launch and embed our health strategy across Health strategy successfully deployed across Consumer Health the business.
All business units have health strategy targets embedded into FY15 activity plans.
Deliver our public commitments to support UK Governments Responsibility Deal pledges governments voluntary initiatives.
all delivered and updated for FY14 and new pledges around front of pack labelling put in place.
Embed our new purpose, vision and values New purpose, vision and values successfully Great place to work across the business to support our Great Place cascaded throughout the business with all to Work ambitions.
employees involved Train 200 teachers and 300 young people 131 teachers reached 200 had signed up to Community relations through our Learning Zone programmes and attend but failed to show.
reached 3930 students with our resources.
We directly reached 397 students with our programmes.
Achieve a water intensity ratio of 1:9.
Achieved a 17.8% reduction, achieving 1.93 Water stewardship water intensity ratio across our manufacturing sites 5% reduction in carbon ratio against FY13.
7% reduction achieved in Scope 1 & 2 carbon Climate change emissions relative to tonnage produced.
More information can be found within the Sustainable Business Report 30% of high risk GB IRL direct suppliers have 39% of high risk suppliers have a fully Responsible sourcing assessment conducted.
Strategic r Strategic report eport Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report 25 making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable sightseeing 26 Strategic r Strategic report eport Governance Financial statements Other information 27 making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable cooling down
