08 Strategic report Our people We recognise that our people Our workforce We currently employ over 3000 people around the world.
We want are central to our success and Britvic to be an inspiring place to be and our ambition is to be the to achieving our future ambitions.
employer of choice for the worlds most dynamic and creative people in the fast moving consumer goods FMCG sector.
We want our We have a talented and dedicated people to realise their ambitions and encourage them to own and workforce which demonstrates grow their career goals within Britvic.
We will continue to invest in and develop our people and, through expansion, create career development commitment and passion for opportunities, including increased mobility across teams and geographies.
our business on a daily basis.
In As part of our new operating model, we have established a dedicated international business unit in the past year, bringing together the right return we continue to invest in structure and processes to deliver our ambitions with pace and simplicity.
our people to help them perform To do this we have expanded the international teams in GB, as well as USA, Holland and Singapore and have recruited a new team in and grow, as well as share in India.
We have developed local policies and practices for all our markets so we can make Britvic an inspiring place to be anywhere in the world.
Diversity Purpose, vision and values Our 2020 gender diversity goal is to have at least 40% female Each and every employee is guided by a common purpose, vision representation within senior management levels.
With the changes and values, which have been reviewed and refreshed in the past year.
to the board composition last year, we now have 25% 2 female representation on the board.
In addition 35% 161 of our senior Our leaders have played a pivotal role in bringing our purpose to life, managers are female and below this level, females make up 28% inspiring all our people towards achieving our vision, helping them to 845 of our workforce.
understand how they contribute to achieving our goals and sharing a new set of values.
We are currently integrating our values into our At Britvic, we consider diversity to be broader than gender, ethnicity, people processes and programmes, including performance disability or sexual orientation.
We are committed to encouraging an management and reward.
As we expand into new territories our environment where we celebrate individual genius through the global workforce is encouraged to live them every day.
promotion of diversity of thought.
Gender diversity Our purpose Making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable Board 25 including x6 non-executives % x2 75 Our vision The most dynamic, creative and admired soft drinks company in the world Senior managers Delivering An inspiring 35 Being the most x303 Trusted and Building iconic consistently place to be valued by our respected in our brands loved by superior for our customers & returns for communities consumers employees partners shareholders % x161 Our values 65 Be proud Be bold Be disciplined Act with pace Be open Win together All employees 28 x2,124 % x845 72 Strategic r Strategic report eport Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Our people continued 09 We have run a Wellness@work programme in GB for some years.
Learning & development This supports our commitment to the UK governments Responsibility We are committed to nurturing and growing our employees at all Deal and encourages our employees to take active measures to levels, enabling them to lead Britvic into the future.
improve their wellbeing, in line with the Change4Life principles of eat well, move more, live healthier longer.
This programme will be rolled In the past year we have recruited a number of senior leaders from out in Ireland in the coming year.
We have also initiated a group outside our industry to infuse fresh thinking and bring new capabilities occupational health programme review, to determine future strategy to our team.
We have implemented new leadership development and 2015 action plans.
initiatives to enable our senior leaders to adopt new ways to lead, coach and support their teams.
Pay & benefits We continue to run an extensive learning and development curriculum, which offers all employees the chance to improve their core business We proactively monitor our total pay and benefits offering as part of skills and managers the opportunity to enhance their line management our reward philosophy which is based on delivering competitive skills.
We also run programmes tailored to the needs of specific areas salaries and benefits, performance related bonus opportunities and of the business.
In a number of our markets pay for large populations of our employees is determined with trade union representatives on the basis of fair Communication and engagement terms and conditions for all members.
We participated in the Great Place to Work survey for the first time last year and the results provided valuable feedback on how our Management pay and bonuses are linked to business performance people are feeling about the business in a time of significant change.
Selected senior executives also receive annual awards of long-term incentives to directly align their packages The findings were varied and highlighted areas of strength as well as with sustainable shareholder creation.
Pay outs under these plans areas where we need to do more.
The outputs from the survey have depends on Britvics performance over a three-year period.
been analysed in depth and workshops were held throughout the business to communicate the findings and to identify where changes We also provide competitive pension and healthcare benefits in and improvements can be made.
These will be put into place in the addition to statutory arrangements.
Communication with all our employees is a priority for us and we keep Sharing in success people informed about our business, its performance and things that affect them through a variety of channels.
These include our intranet, Our remuneration philosophy places great emphasis on providing the Teamlink, our monthly digital update, and Teamtalk, our regular face opportunity for our employees to share in the success of Britvic.
In to face engagement meetings.
In the past year we have extended our particular share ownership is at the heart of our employee offering quarterly magazine, Britvic Life, to all employees and it now available with average shareholdings for GB-based employees currently at digitally and in English and French.
We have well established Employee 16,000 as a result of their participation in our long-standing Share Involvement Forums in GB and Ireland as well as a Britvic Group Forum, Incentive Plan SIP.
with nominated employee representatives who ensure that employees The SIP provides free share awards to participants each year, subject views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect to company performance, which they then hold for a minimum of them.
Where the group has entered into a recognition agreement with three years.
The SIP also provides participants with the opportunity to a trade union, it fulfils its obligations to consult and negotiate accordingly.
purchase additional shares in Britvic as well as receive further matching awards.
Health, safety and wellbeing Profit sharing plans also operate in Ireland and France to allow participants to share in the success of Britvic and similar arrangements The health, safety and wellbeing of our employees is paramount to will be extended to other countries in the near future.
the company and in the past year we have made significant improvements against our targets.
We have introduced a Health, Safety and Wellbeing Committee that is chaired by our General Counsel, has cross functional representation from all business units and central functions, and is supported by health and safety specialists from across the group.
We have also introduced a new e-learning platform that enables us to deliver health and safety training to everyone within the business, regardless of where they work.
The primary health and safety focus for Britvic in 2014 was to address the issue of aging workplace equipment to ensure it is compliant with the present day EU Machinery Safety Directive and EN ISO Machine Safety Standards.
10 Strategic r Strategic report eport Governance Financial statements Other information 11 making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable family dinner
