Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Corporate social investment In keeping with our business model of many well-established charitable partnerships Our CSI endeavours are central to the independent, highly autonomous business and volunteering initiatives to support these groups values of making an unselfi sh units, supported by a strong centre, there partners.
Further, we make donations contribution to society, valuing diversity is no single overriding approach to social to charities in response to requests for and respecting others, and underpin investment within the group, although clear assistance across all regions and business Investecs aim of being a good corporate commonalities exist.
Each of the regions areas within the group.
This allows us to citizen.
Ourapproach to CSI focuses has pursued social investment as deemed allocate meaningful grants in areas which on education, entrepreneurship and the appropriate to their circumstances and where might not fall within our main focus areas.
We believe that to focus they are in the evolution of their business.
on education and entrepreneurship is an effective way to create opportunities for The active involvement of our people, employment, wealth creation and stimulate through volunteering, remains at the core socio-economic growth.
of our social investment strategy.
We have Breakdown of spend by the CSI divisions UK and Other South Africa 31 March 2014 31 March 2014 1.0 million 3.5 million Entrepreneurship 20.0% Entrepreneurship 6.0% Education 38.0% Education 84.0% Philanthropic and other 39.0% Philanthropic and other 10.0% Environment 3.0% UK and Other South Africa 03 31 March 2013 31 March 2013 0.9 million 3.0 million Entrepreneurship 45.0% Entrepreneurship 13.0% Education 29.0% Education 75.0% Philanthropic and other 19.0% Philanthropic and other 12.0% Environment 7.0% Our approach to sustainability is documented throughout this integrated annual report with further detail in a more extensive sustainability report on our website.
employees giving by providing a Give-AsOur volunteers remain committed to UK and Other You-Earn facility and matching funds raised our partnership with Arrival Education, The corporate social investment programme by ouremployees.
having spent over 2 300 hours with the plays a key role in the fulfi lment of students and forming over 90coaching Investecs core values, focusing on making Highlights during the period relationships, with the aim of creating an unselfi sh contribution to society.
We Investec Ashes 2013 Cycle Challenge the high performers and wealth champion sustainable social investment by: a bespoke, cricket-themed creators of the future.
In 2013 we were challenge to cycle between the host fi nalists at the Lord Mayor Dragon Building dedicated charitable grounds of the Investec Ashes Series, Awards Education category, as well partnerships created by James Bedingfi eld of our as being Highly Commended at the Engaging all Investec people in making Sheffi eld offi ce, in partnership with the Business Charity Awards Community 03 a positive difference Lords Taverners charity.
The event Impact category, for this mutually successfully engaged employees, benefi cial partnership Harnessing our diverse resources and partners and clients of several of our collective talent.
An Investec team was entered into the offi ces, as well as raising over 279000 Movember Campaign, an international for the Lords Taverners and other Our social investment programme in the fundraising event, for a second year local charities.
Funding to the Lords UK is focused on the areas of education, and fi nished sixth in the country and Taverners provides fi five  and environment: sectors fourth in the Square Mile Challenge we adapted mini-buses to facilitate nearly identifi ed by staff as best aligned with were 20th in the country the previous 4 000 trips to sporting facilities and Investecs core values.
Our approach year : 74 people across the bank were other amenities for 400 disabled young encompasses the principal elements of involved, including our Executive team.
people up and down the country every facilitating employee volunteering with We raised a total of 35 000 as well year, granting them access to sport and our charitable partners, and making as considerable awareness for mens recreation.
We have been shortlisted other charitable donations to small local health issues, our efforts having been for this at the national Business charities that fi t within the education, done in collaboration with pupils from Charity Awards 2014 Challenge entrepreneurship and environment our charitable partner, Morpeth School Eventcategory sectors.
We also encourage and facilitate Investec integrated annual report 2014 117 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued In 2013 our employees opted to run by our volunteers, includes three aimed at facilitating the empowerment renew the partnership with Amherst introductory skills sessions for the pupils, of talented individuals within a defi ned School for another three years.
Many focusing on developing confi dence continuum of interventions through school relationships and commitments have in unfamiliar situations, interview and university to the workplace.
The been built between employees and preparation and presentation skills.
following two key objectives have been identifi ed: pupils and we are thrilled to continue Southern Africa our support of these young people.
Our To facilitate an increase in the number volunteers have been described as part Aligned with the group approach, our of  matriculants of the fabric of life at the school: they CSI endeavours in South Africa focus on as well as those with a decent pass in have found volunteering opportunities education and entrepreneurship.
Wherever English, Maths and Science who have motivating and fulfi lling, collectively, possible, we seek to collaborate with an aspiration to proceed beyond Matric giving more than 50 days per year.
partners so as to leverage resources and Wewere awarded the Guernsey expertise and help ensure enduring impact To facilitate access to quality tertiary Employer of the Year 2013 for and long-term sustainability for our projects.
looking after our people, with specifi c In all cases, we look to clear indications The illustration below shows how various acknowledgment of our successful that projects are enduring, sustainable components of our strategy form a pipeline social investment programmes for and replicable where appropriate and of interventions starting at high school and engaging employees and carrying are guided by strategic intent, rather than progressing to the workplace: outgreat work within the community philanthropic well-meaning.
In 2013 we relaunched the Junior Our CSI strategy is to focus on a more Apprentice Programme for a group clearly defi ned pipeline of educational and of Morpeth pupils.
The strategy is South African pipeline of interventions Tertiary Workplace High school Support Maths Entrepreneurial Exposure Access to Transition to Invite as perforand Science thinking to careers tertiary workplace alumni mance Promaths stats Dobsonville, Qwaqwa and Umlazi Dobsonville and Qwaqwa Academic year 2013 2012 2011 03 Number of Maths distinctions 189 114 50 Number of Maths decent passes 50% 100% 464 307 214 Number of Science distinctions 158 84 61 Number of Science decent passes 50% 100% 421 276 196 Our approach to sustainability is documented throughout this integrated annual report with further detail in a more extensive sustainability report on our website.
118 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Highlights during the period life skills amongst Grade 10 and It is well received by all parties 11 learners.
Investec is currently involved as it also enables Investec In line with our strategy, a total of 90% of sponsoring the programme to be Australia employees to team build South Africa's CSI spend was allocated to offered at 10 schools, in the nine as well as assisting and promoting a education and entrepreneurial initiatives: provinces across the country thus better and more sustainable future for Promaths, which is a partnership reaching approximately 350 learners in thecommunity between Investec and Kutlwanong previously disadvantaged communities The Outback Oral Treatment and Centre for Maths, Science and The Cradle Project, a group of Investec Health TOOTH programme which Technology, offers extra Maths and employees who give their time and was launched in partnership with Science lessons to Grade 10, 11 and resources to improving the lives of Australias Royal Flying Doctor Service.
The main aim is to improve those less fortunate in our surrounding TOOTH exceeded its second year goal learners performance in Maths, hence communities, allocated R628 297 of 512clinics by providing 516 clinics facilitating entrance into tertiary learning 2013: R508 999 to a variety of including 15 oral health promotion institutions.
This year, Investec CSI is clinics to rural and remote Australia.
worthycauses proud to announce that 92% of the Over two years, TOOTH has treated Matric class of 2013 obtained 60% and During the fi financial year, 350 2013: 3485 patients with a combined value above for Pure Maths 380 high school learners participated of A$754 436 in an eight-month long Investec During the 2013 academic year we Ourstaff donated A$67664 2013: funded programme focusing on launched four new Promaths centres entrepreneurship, fi financial literacy and A$76 996 which was matched in Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, Pretoria byInvestec workplace readiness, as well as microand Durban, thereby creating space for economics and business ethics 1800 more learners to be part of this Investec staff participated in four programme Australian Business Community Investec Bank Mauritius has a CSI strategy to focus on projects and Network ABCN programmes focused We developed our partnership with on mentoring and coaching.
Investec initiatives in education, environment the Independent Schools Association and sports development.
The offi ce Australia continued its involvement of Southern Africa ISASA and the with ABCN by committing 33 mentors contributed 58 269 2013: 75241 Department of Education for the Teacher throughout the year consisting of to a number of corporate social Internship programme.
The 2013 four programmes within two different investment projects during the fi financial academic year saw an initial intake of schools year.
Please refer to the Investec Bank 21 teacher interns with an additional Mauritius annual report for more detail.
50teacher interns recruited towards the Investec Australia has committed to end of 2013 bringing the total number of support Football United on a two-year Australia interns currently on the programme to 71 basis.
Football United uses football to The Investec Foundation in Australia bring people together for the common The 2013 academic year saw the embodies our philanthropic commitment to goal of creating harmonious and piloting of the Brainwave mobile career the Australian community.
This commitment cohesive societies helpline hosted on Mxit, a free instant is illustrated primarily through supporting messaging application designed to meaningful health, welfare and educational A new partnership was developed be a user-friendly information tool, programmes, while remaining focused between our Power and Infrastructure relevant for learners in need of career on preserving the local environment and Finance business, the South Australian guidance.
This online platform may also managing our environmental footprint.
government and not-for-profi t housing be utilised by unemployed graduates in provider Community Housing Limited To create a positive social impact, the need of information about organisations to use an innovative rent-then-buy Investec Foundation focuses on a small recruiting for new talent model to deliver affordable housing for number of sustained philanthropic giving workers including teachers, nurses, Investec, in partnership with Study and volunteering efforts.
We partner with 03 police offi cers and hospitality staff.
Trust, awards young South Africans local, entrepreneurial organisations which The fi finance model is geared towards with academic potential and fi financial perform remarkable work in these fi elds.
social sustainability by enabling need the opportunity to study towards key professionals to afford to buy Highlights during the period fi financial sector related degrees at in a suburb close to their place of selected local universities.
For the 2013 The Australian offi ce contributed A$253009 employment.
academic year, the programme had 2013: A$347 600 to a number of CSI 88 bursary recipients from fi first year to projects: honours level Over 250 2013: 230 Investec In 2013 Investec continued its employees participated in the banks partnership with Junior Achievement second consecutive year of the South Africa in an entrepreneurship national volunteering initiative, ICARE.
initiative that seeks to stimulate an This is a volunteering day where entrepreneurial mindset as well as Investec reaches out to the community.
