Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Sustainable business practices Guided by our purpose to create sustained long-term wealth, we seek to be a positive influence in all our core businesses Our and in each of the societies in which we operate.
We do this by empowering communities through entrepreneurship and sustainability education and leveraging the value in our diversity.
We recognise the challenges that climate change presents to the global philosophy economy and we will consider supporting any meaningful activity that either reduces the negative impact on, or prolongs life on our planet.
Investec as a responsible corporate At Investec we recognise that, while our of our organisation and our approach to time, and provides the individual business shareholders remain at the forefront, responsible business.
units and regions with a basis from which to our purpose ultimately is not only about determine their own approach.
The groups Our culture and values, at the heart of our driving profits.
We strive to be a distinctive philosophy is not intended to be mutually approach, demonstrate our belief that as specialist bank and asset manager, exclusive, nor exhaustive, but allows us to an organisation we can and must, if we demonstrating cast-iron integrity, moral concentrate, for now, on key focus areas.
are to maintain a sustainable business in strength and behaviour which promote Deliberately not driven on a top-down the long term, have a positive impact on trust.
Our core values include unselfishly basis, the executive maintains responsibility the success and wellbeing of communities contributing to society, valuing diversity for oversight, direction, coordination and local to our offices, the environment and and respecting others.
Outstanding, integration of our sustainability efforts while on overall macro-economic stability.
empowered talent, entrepreneurial spirit the individual business units provide the and regard for the planet are other principal drivers behind our activities, in a Our philosophy seeks to align the interests qualities that fit squarely with the culture manner that best makes sense to each.
of shareholders and stakeholders over Sustainability at Investec Investecs sustainability focus encompasses endurance and the interdependence of the Investec maintained its inclusion in the JSE three key areas of profit, people and planet: SRI Index, the FTSE4Good Index, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Investec group received Profit People two awards from the Climate Disclosure Project.
Gold recognition status was given Financial strength and ENGAGE | DEVELOP | RETAIN for a score of Aon Climate Performance resilience of the business Internal employees: and the economy in 2013 and we were also included in the Balanced and resilient Strong diverse and Climate Disclosure Leadership Index 2013 business model.
capable workforce Top 11 in South Africa across all sectors.
Risk management and Provide a progressive work environment.
compliance Sustainability FTSE Group confi rms that Investec has Strong risk 03 been independently assessed according consciousness at Investec Planet Responsible banking to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has Internal practices satisfi ed the requirements to become Responsible lending and Reduce operational investing.
a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index External Governance Series.
Created by the global index Strong culture and values Embed environmental company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is to underpin our processes, considerations into an equity index series that is designed functions and structures.
to facilitate investment in companies ENERGY | WATER | WASTE that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social and environmental criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefi ts of responsible business practice.
Our approach to sustainability is documented throughout this integrated annual report with further detail in a more extensive sustainability report on our website.
