Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued Afocus of the 2014 Review was to The Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act ensure that suffi cient progress was Contribution to development of the communities in which its activities are being made on the actions agreed to predominantly conducted or within which its products and services are address the areas for improvement predominantly marketed.
identifi ed during the course of the 2013Review.
The committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Membership and attendance Attendance by members at SEC meetings during the fi financial year ended 31 March 2014: Fani Titi Chairman, DLC nominations and directors affairs committee Number of Number of meetings held meetings attended 11 June 2014 Members during the year during the year Executive directors DLC social and ethics B Kantor 3 3 committee SEC S Koseff 3 3 Non-executive directors Introduction This report to the board and shareholders, F Titi chairman 3 3 on how the SEC has discharged its duties, CA Carolus 3 3 has been prepared in accordance with PRS Thomas 3 3 sound governance principles.
Transformation Summary of monitoring Background activities during the year The committee monitors Investec The SEC is mandated by the board to Limiteds empowerment rating and underreview be the social and ethics committee of discusses with management how to Investec plc and Investec Limited and their Employment equity improve the rating subsidiaries.
The South African Companies The committee monitors progress made Act 2008, as amended the Act, provides The committee received detailed against Investec Limiteds Employment that all listed public companies must information on the recent developments Equity Plan establish a social and ethics committee.
to the DTI Codes and the impact on the The Act enables the group to appoint a The committee engages with the Financial Sector Charter and scorecards social and ethics committee for the holding management of Human Resources to going forward.
company, which will fulfi l the required discuss challenges around matters such Sustainability functions on behalf of the subsidiary as diversity and employment equity companies.
Due to the required functions The committee receives regular, targets of the committee which are universal in detailed reports on all matters relating to nature, the board resolved to constitute the The committee engages with members sustainability committee to monitor the activities for the of the employment equity forum The committee monitors the groups group and not just Investec Limited.
The committee monitors and reviews initiatives to reduce the carbon footprint.
Role and responsibilities diversity across the group and considers Conservation any regulatory developments in 03 The DLC SEC is responsible for monitoring thisregard.
The committee receives presentations the groups activities, having regard to any about the groups initiatives around relevant legislation, other legal requirements Skills development conservation.
or prevailing codes of best practice, with The committee monitors the various regard to matters relating to: Reputational risk learning and leadership programmes on offer by the group The committee receives reports Social and economic development regarding matters that could impact the Good corporate citizenship The committee monitors the groups groups reputation.
spend on skills development and Monitoring Investec Limited and its discusses initiatives with Human subsidiaries activities, with regard to Resources in this regard.
matters relating to: Corporate social investment CSI Fani Titi The Employment Equity Act The committee receives regular reports Chairman, DLC social and ethics committee on the groups CSI initiatives and the 11 June 2014 CSI strategy and spend.
