Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Employee report Investec employees remain critical to continued business success and to overall sustainability efforts.
The expertise and dedication of staff is fundamental in meeting our clients needs and delivering distinctive results.
It is therefore vital that we engage, develop and retain a highvalue workforce.
One of the groups values is to ensure open and honest communication and hence we encourage active and open dialogue between staff and senior management.
As a responsible employer, Investec aims to offer staff a stimulating and progressive working environment in which they can ourish and realise their true potential.
In assuming responsibility for our human capital we seek to promote sustainability through: Managing 3 7 performance through regular Measures to Facilitating an understanding of reviews, pathing ensure the the Investec culture and people and development health and practices, to allow for guidance wellbeing of and opportunity among staff employees 4 Specialised Resourcing and learning recruiting that environment prioritises a diverse workforce 1 5 Competitive remuneration Succession and reward planning and 26 business continuity 6 group and the alignment of HR strategy culture and values.
OD acts to strengthen Our internal people activities involve with business strategy.
As our operating the culture of the business, ensure its dedicated divisions such as Human 03 jurisdictions have different legal and values are lived, build capability and Resources HR and Organisation regulatory requirements, our various HR contribute to the long-term sustainability Development OD which serve to functions operate independently of one ofthe organisation.
supplement the ongoing people focus of another, while at all times adhering to the our individual business units.
The Investec The HR division participates in local and group philosophical approach.
careers and HR teams are mandated to international forums, to ensure ongoing attract, develop and retain talent who can development of HR best practice in the perform in a manner consistent with our Our approach to sustainability is documented throughout this integrated annual report with further detail in a more extensive sustainability report on our website.
112 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Number of employees 31 March 31 March By division permanent employees 2014 2013 Asset Management UK and Other 428 383 Southern Africa 913 778 Total 1 341 1161 Wealth & Investment UK and Other 1 014 973 Southern Africa 286 272 Total 1 300 1245 Specialist Banking UK and Other 1 769 1 982 Southern Africa 2 787 2 698 Australia 440 470 USA 20 19 Total 5 016 5169 Total number of permanent employees 7 657 7575 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March By geography total employees 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 UK and Other 3 211 3 338 3 181 2 606 1 763 1 706 Southern Africa 3 986 3 748 3 661 3 680 3 542 3 541 Australia 440 470 411 401 356 354 USA 20 19 33 29 23 22 Temporary employees and contractors 601 576 495 521 439 328 Total number of employees 8 258 8 151 7 781 7 237 6 123 5 951 Employee strategy The core areas of emphasis regarding our people strategy are: To attract, retain and motivate the right To retain and motivate staff through To ensure that performance people who can perform extraordinarily appropriate remuneration and reward management is effectively and structures constructively practised We invest signifi cantly in a number of opportunities for developing and training Our remuneration practices comply with Our culture of open and honest 03 employees and in leadership programmes the principles of local regulations, while dialogue promotes immediate and direct to develop current and future leaders of continuing to reward people meaningfully performance-related feedback between the group.
Our Learning and Development for performance and contribution.
Our manager, employee and team, to help centre plays a critical role in the remuneration strategy is based on the individuals identify and address their development of our employees as well as philosophy that employees are innovative, development needs.
assisting the business areas to achieve their entrepreneurial and work in an environment learning objectives.
Such learning objectives that encourages and fosters extraordinary are always aligned to the business performance.
In line with our philosophy of strategy and market trends.
The centre employee ownership, staff share schemes is also involved in group-wide activities provide all employees, at all levels of such as an induction programme for new the organisation, with the opportunity to employees, providing learning advice to participate in our long-term growth.
individual employees and facilitating the Further information is provided on development of generic programmes in the pages 130 to 163. fi elds of information technology, banking and fi finance, compliance, e-learning, talent retention and mentoring.
We do not have a formal human Working at Investec physical and psychological health, welfare rights policy for the group as this would fall The policies and business practices of and safety of our people.
Our offi ces within the ambit of our Code of Conduct Investec are outlined in Becoming also host wellness days for staff to raise but we do adhere to the relevant laws in Acquainted with Investec BAWI and in the awareness and education around health allour jurisdictions.
They are intended issues through a unique, fun and interactive Our philosophy as an organisation is to guide our conduct and ensure that at all approach which focuses on physical and to respect the dignity and worth of the times our actions and attitudes reect the mental health.
We uphold the constitutional groups values and philosophies.
rights of our employees at all times, do not Retrenchment policy These policies and business practices can practise forced or compulsory labour and Where it becomes necessary for Investec do not employ children.
be found on our website, including more to terminate employment based on details on the following: operational requirements, the procedure Discrimination to be followed will be in accordance with Health and safety We endeavour to prevent and or eliminate Investecs retrenchment policy which is A group-wide formal health and safety any form of discrimination based on more favourable than the local regulatory programme identies and manages all gender, race, religion, age and sexual requirements.
We conduct consultation health and safety risks, and carries out preference orany other basis as envisaged for a period which exceeds the minimum regular safety audits.
It is overseen by a by the South AfricanBill of Rights in prescribed period, during which we attempt health and safety committee that meets to nd a suitable alternative position for the the Constitution.
Investec has a formal quarterly to review health and safety affected employee.
grievance procedure and a written policy concerns.
In South Africa, Investecs to deal appropriately with any incident which Freedom of association HIV Aids policy and management forum 03 may occur.
Furthermore, there are several extends to all permanent employees.
We fully support employees rights to informal avenues for employees who wish to freedom of association.
There is no discuss concerns, e. g. OD, HR, Employee To enable and develop employee health representative trade union for Investec and Relations and our independent external and wellbeing, Investec provides employees we are not aware of any employees who consultants.
with a bespoke Employee Assistance and are part of a trade union.
We do however Wellbeing Programme.
The comprehensive uphold the constitutional rights of the We are unaware of any incidence of and integrated Health and Wellbeing individual to freedom of association, the discrimination in the South African business Programme, which expresses our focus right to collective bargaining and the right and there are no recorded incidences of of care and concern for the wellbeing of tobe a member of a union of their choice.
discrimination for the period under review.
employees, and provides personalised wellness interventions offered in faceHuman rights Whistle-blowing policy and protected to-face counselling and coaching.
The We support and respect the protection of disclosures wellness interventions are provided by a internationally proclaimed human rights One of Investecs values requires multi-disciplinary team of select health and are not complicit in any human rights employees to conduct all internal and professionals who are all specialists in Our approach to sustainability is documented throughout this integrated annual report with further detail in a more extensive sustainability report on our website.
114 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued external dealings with integrity, consistently diversity and different cultures.
Emerging During the year we completed our fourth and uncompromisingly displaying moral and established leaders are invited to Department of Trade and Industry BEE verication according to the generic strength and behaviour which promotes participate in talent discussions with codes and received a level 3 rating status trust.
Integrity and confidence are critical executive management around all issues by Empowerdex.
We are committed to to our reputation and sustainability.
The related to talent management.
Inaddition, achieving and sustaining an equitable purpose of our whistle-blowing policy our Zebra Crossing initiative, which is workplace that encourages and manages is to encourage employees to raise aligned to our employment equity plan, diversity and as such remain focused on concerns or disclose information about aims to raise levels of multi-cultural the corrective strategies as set out in our possible fraudulent, unethical, criminal or awareness of staff at Investec and enable Employment Equity Plan for the period other improper behaviour or workplace them to appreciate and celebrate the 2013 to 2017.
In terms of numerical misconduct in total condentiality and richness of our diverse population and targets for 2013 we met our targets at anonymity and without fear of retribution.
to take these insights back into the Top Management level and the overall We seek to protect all employees who business.
EE count at both Senior and Middle disclose unlawful or irregular conduct Management levels exceeded the overall Transformation by the company, its employees or other EE target.
In addition we delivered on all In South Africa, Investec remains stakeholders.
the non-numerical goals, as outlined in our committed to black economic EE Plan for 2013.
To review the full details on employees and empowerment.
Our approach involves: our policies relating to business practices, Recognising that enterprise development Using our entrepreneurial expertise please refer to the separate sustainability is vital to South Africas transformation to foster the creation of new black report on our website.
aspirations, we launched an Enterprise entrepreneurial platforms Development programme in partnership Promoting equity and diversity in with Raizcorp to back 12 entrepreneurs Serving as a leading source of theworkplace who are managing their own business and empowerment nancing have potential to grow and createjobs.
Our promotion of equal opportunity and Encouraging internal transformation by workplace diversity is not merely a social Further information on the bringing about greater representivity responsibility, but a means of ensuring employment equity statistics of our in our workplace.
In this regard, that we foster a culture of diversity in the South African business is available we are focusing on creating black belief that this brings business advantage.
We have various processes to encourage debate and dialogue around appreciating Employee gender composition permanent employees Southern Africa UK and Other Australia 31 March 2014 31 March 2014 31 March 2014 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Directors 2 2 2 2 Senior managers 734 432 1 166 184 23 207617 Rest of employees 1 034 1 784 2 818 1 700 1 322 3 022 232 201 433 Total 1 770 2 216 3 986 1 886 1 345 3 231 238 202 440 A senior manager is defi ned as a person who: a has responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the company, or a strategically signifi cant part of the company, and b is an employee of the company.
