Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OUR PEOPLE AND OUR CULTURE OUR PEOPLE INTERNATIONAL SENIOR MANAGEMENT At JLT the quality of our people drives our PROGRAMME success.
In accordance with our values of Each year JLT runs the International Senior Management collaboration, agility and rigour, our people Programme ISMP, its flagship senior development programme for focus on exceeding the expectations of the some of our most promising people drawn from across the Group.
Its purpose is to build world-class leadership capabilities, deepen clients they serve.
peoples understanding of the JLT Group, promote greater collaboration, strengthen relationships and protect the Groups We enable colleagues to work together in cohesive and focused teams, promoting collaboration, personal accountability and culture.
responsibility and we recognise and reward them for their efforts.
Those employees attending the 2014 ISMP included: James Auty, Our collaboration tools empower employees to connect and share Teresa Beach, Jonathan Bines, Greg Boothright, Adam Codrington, their strengths globally for their clients, pooling experience and Hugh Crossland, Gareth Davies, Ernesto Diaz, Igor Fijan, developing each others expertise.
Rupert Flury, Gracy Khoo, Gordon Longley, Stuart McKellar, In 2014 we continued to invest in developing our future leaders Carlos Navarro, Phil Ondaatje, Peder Schauman, Gaya Vytheswaran, through our well established International Senior Management Stuart Whitbread and Michael Wellsted.
Programme and through a new Global Mobility Programme, which provides high potential colleagues with developmental opportunities overseas.
We support colleagues at all levels with a comprehensive range of learning opportunities, in both technical and behavioural capabilities.
In 2014 we also conducted our second Group-wide employee engagement survey, to understand and measure the changing experience of our employees.
The results gave us valuable insights into where we have improved and where more work is required.
Employee-led Action Teams are working on these results to help us raise our game further in 2015.
OUR CULTURE We are fiercely protective of our unique culture.
JLT is a 10,000 OUR PEOPLE OUR CLIENTS employee strong global company with the mindset of a lean, entrepreneurial business.
We attract and retain the best CLIENT people by valuing and celebrating our diverse strengths FIRST we reject the impersonal, big company mentality that stifles entrepreneurial spirit, commoditises relationships, dumbs down expertise, loses touch with the client and INDEPENDENT ANALYTICAL lets innovation die.
JLTs culture ensures our people are free to focus on the best interests of our clients, bringing all of their expertise OUR and their integrity to bear gaining real understanding of CULTURE each clients specific needs, engaging creatively with their INNOVATIVE challenges and experiencing their clients successes as ENTREPRENEURIAL their own.
It also ensures that we balance the interests of our four stakeholders - our clients, our people, our trading partners and our shareholders - in all our day-to-day activities PASSIONATE and decisions.
ADVOCATES EXPERT COLLABORATIVE As we grow, we take care to ensure that our culture remains clear and robust.
As a result, we believe that today our culture is stronger, more celebrated and more part of the fabric of JLT OUR SHAREHOLDERS OUR TRADING PARTNERS than ever before.
