Corporate Social Responsibility and Greenhouse Gas Emissions The JLIF Board and its Investment Adviser, John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM, are committed to socially-responsible investing and understand the need to carry out activities in a responsible and sustainable manner.
JLIF recognises the environmental, social and economic This gave the students the chance to say that their work had needs of the communities in which it works and looks for been publicly featured in the annual report of a FTSE 250 suitable opportunities to engage and support communities, company.
The school chosen at random was the Bristol Brunel by using its skills, time and financial support.
The commitment Academy, part of the Bristol BSF project, from which JLIF to corporate social responsibility CSR is delivered through received many excellent entries.
After much deliberation JLIF programmes directly supported by JLIF and through the activities chose the below three pieces credited to left to right Michael of JLCM and JLIFs other partners who manage the projects Heselgrove, Demi Higgs and Regan Brown to be featured as and provide facilities management services to the Portfolio the winners.
JLIF would like to congratulate the winners and assets.
JLIF actively encourages its partners to engage with the to wish them the best for their future art pursuits and to thank local communities in which its projects are located.
It is the all the entrants for their hard work.
engagement of these teams who operate the projects on a daily JLIF also continues to sponsor Ahead Partnerships, which basis and support the communities in which they operate that provides funding for the Make the Grade initiative at numerous makes the greatest difference.
A number of the CSR activities schools including the Leeds Combined Secondary Schools that have been undertaken during 2014 are detailed in the project in the UK.
This innovative model provides a structured section below.
programme of business support, such as interview training and mentoring, by involving up to 30 employers drawn from different Community Engagement sectors.
The programme was developed in Leeds and is now As part of JLIFs efforts to support the communities and users gathering momentum with roll-out across other parts of the of the projects in which it invests, the Company decided to run country.
The number of pupils who have benefitted from JLIFs an art competition for students at one of its schools projects sponsorship in Make the Grade is in excess of 2,770. with the winning entries being displayed in this annual report.
The winners of JLIFs art competition for year 11 students at the Bristol Brunel Academy, part of JLIF's Bristol BSF project.
Michael Heselgrove Demi Higgs Regan Brown 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 35.
At one of the Funds key health sector assets, the Abbotsford During 2014 JLIF assessed its carbon footprint in line with the Regional Hospital and Cancer Centre, it was recently brought to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the results of which are detailed in Funds attention that one of the services at the hospital, the Breast the table below.
JLIF reported its GHG emissions to the CDP Health Clinic, was to be displaced due to space limitations.
This formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project and has subjected its would mean that patients would have to travel much further aeld data submission to verication by the Carbon Trust.
Scope 1 in order to still be able to access this important service.
With this in GHG emissions represent JLIFs share of direct emissions from mind the Fund offered the client free use of a vacant retail unit for the project facilities, typically through the consumption of gas.
the Breast Health Clinic through to the end of the concession, Scope 2 emissions are JLIFs share of indirect emissions from giving up the rental income that would otherwise be earned, but the project resulting from the generation of purchased energy.
thereby ensuring that these services could be retained at the 2014 2014 18 19 hospital.
The client received the idea well and the ret of the unit Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source tC0 e tC0 e m 2 2 is due to be completed by early next year.
Scope 1 27,030 347.9 JLIF continues to support teachers from the North Swindon Scope 2 92,514 1,190.9 Schools project by providing sponsored membership of the Total 119,544 1,538.8 Princes Teaching Institute Schools and Schools Leadership Programmes.
The Company was delighted to be able to extend the scheme in 2014 to support teachers at Bexleyheath 2013 2013 18 19 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source tC0 e tC0 e m Academy.
The programme is designed to bring teachers together 2 2 with the countrys most eminent academics, writers and policyScope 1 20,870 429.3 makers in an inspirational forum for discussion of fundamental Scope 2 77,597 1,596.4 questions about their subjects, with a view to helping teachers renew their passion for their chosen subject.
By bringing Total 98,467 2,025.7 passionate teachers together, school departments are encouraged to make rigorous curriculum choices, promote teaching beyond the test, and to enable schools to forge links APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT with other like-minded schools and academic institutions.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement Paul Lester CBE Chairman JLIF is an investment company and as such holds equity interests in its underlying investments.
The approach that it has 24 March 2015 used to consolidate its greenhouse gas GHG emissions reects this structure and aggregates JLIFs equity share of emissions from each asset.
In collating its data JLIF has considered the GHG emissions from the facilities that is manages for the public sector.
However, JLIF does not have direct control over the energy usage of the facilities it manages as these are controlled by their public sector end-users.
As such JLIF has limited ability to directly inuence or reduce the energy consumption of the facilities.
18 In order to ensure the accurate collation and verication of data the GHG emissions above represent JLIFs equity share of annual emissions from the underlying asset portfolio for the period 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014.
As such these are not consistent with the time period of the rest of the financial statements being 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014.
Assets acquired during the financial statements period are excluded from the GHG emissions data reported.
