Corporate citizenship Being a good corporate citizen is one of our key Company objectives as we recognise that forging strong relationships in the communities where we operate will build trust and recognition in what we do.
Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer Approach to Corporate citizenship As well as supporting corporate charity events we also Our reporting areas, listed below, have been carefully chosen as encourage employees to participate in events of their own they are most relevant to our business and address our most and match individual donations up to a maximum of 250. significant business impacts.
This year we have streamlined the Our values way we report and reduced the number of categories we report Our values enable us to operate to high standards in all our under which are now: activities, so we do the right thing every time for BTG and our People stakeholders.
They are: Communities Openness We will be open in giving, accepting and sharing ideas, knowledge, help, advice and Environment constructive challenge.
Governance Accountability We will accept that we have an obligation to These pages summarise our activities and key data for the take responsibility and account for our actions.
More detailed information including case studies Teamwork We will collaborate to achieve common goals can be found online at www.
through mutual respect, openness People and flexibility.
Employees Integrity We will build trust in all interactions by We provide a number of Employee Assistance Programmes displaying consistently high standards of to enhance employee satisfaction and later in 2014 will be ethical and professional business practice.
conducting our third biennial employee engagement survey to monitor progress.
We provide regular opportunities for all Delivery We will always strive to deliver what we have employees to interact with members of the Leadership Team committed to do, on time and to the so that they can keep abreast of developments and ask highest standard.
As the business grows we have looked to implement Continuous We will encourage individuals and teams to scalable solutions to reduce administration and paperwork.
Learning generate new ideas, share knowledge, and Over the last year we have launched a new online HR system, adapt business practices to be the best MyHR, which provides a central repository of information in our industry.
on our people, together with dedicated training plans tailored to individual needs.
BTG is committed to ensuring equality Environment of opportunity and diversity in the workplace and this year The following metrics encompass the key assessments under our we have started to report the percentage of women in the Environmental Health and Safety EHS Management Standards businesses who are Senior Managers.
introduced in 2012: carbon emissions: waste production: water and electricity usage and lost time accidents.
These apply worldwide, Data on gender and all of our sites are audited periodically against these Number of females who are: 2013 14 2012 13 standards.
In addition, we employ a monthly EHS reporting system which includes both leading and lagging performance indicators.
Employees 424 50% 284 51% During the year we opened a new office and research site in Senior Managers 39 30% No data Camberley in the UK and sold our Brachytherapy business in Leadership Team members 2 18% 2 18% Oxford in the USA to Eckert & Ziegler.
We also acquired the EkoSonic manufacturing facility in Seattle in the USA.
The Board Directors 2 25% 2 25% business is a relatively low carbon emitter and energy spend is less than 3% of our operational spend, we continue to monitor Communities our carbon emissions.
We are committed to installing high Charitable Giving energy efficiency equipment on new projects or at our existing Our Charitable Giving Policy sets out our approach to the donation facilities where practicable.
This is evidenced by our new of Company money for charitable causes.
We donated 23,363 Camberley laboratories which have been built with recirculating 2012 13: 15,201 to charitable causes during the year.
These enable 70% energy recovery while 2013 we completed the BTG Cycle Challenge in the UK.
13 riders maintaining employee safety, provided in the past by total from each of our three UK sites completed a 270 mile journey which extraction cupboards.
In addition we are planning to invest took them from our manufacturing facility in West Wales via our 120,000 in solar power at our Australian facilities.
manufacturing facility in Farnham to the finish at BTGs headquarters in the centre of London.
The riders raised over Our electricity usage has increased overall this year due to the 10,000 for Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research.
A complete list of acquisition of the EKOS manufacturing facility and the extension the charities which we supported during the financial year can be of our Farnham manufacturing site to produce Varithena.
Electricity usage was offset by the divestment of the Oxford manufacturing site and the implementation of more energy efficient cold store technology in Wales.
22 The businesss carbon dioxide emissions have decreased Our total waste and recycled waste has decreased during the significantly over the year, driven primarily by a decrease in year following the divestment of the Oxford site which produced scope 1 emissions following the divestment of our Oxford and recycled large quantities of solid lead waste.
manufacturing site which used considerable amounts of Hazardous waste has also decreased as 2013 figures included liquefied petroleum gas LPG for heating purposes.
an atypical amount which resulted from an incident reported Water consumption increased in line with increased headcount in 2013. and the addition of Varithena manufacturing facilities Lost time accidents reduced from 11 to 8 across the Group, with in Farnham.
a 37% decrease at the Australian site.
Data on Environment Data 2013 14 2012 13 % Change 15 Total CO equivalent emissions generated tonnes 2 5,229 5,687 -8 CO equivalent emissions scope 1 tonnes 1,576 2,109 -25 2 CO equivalent emissions scope 2 tonnes 3,653 3,578 2 2 Total production units 201,228 192,658 4 Total Kg CO generated per production unit 26 30 -13 2 Total employees 895 558 60 Total Kg CO generated per employee 5,842 10,191 -42 2 Total electricity consumed MwH 6,973 6,451 8 Total electricity consumed MwH per production unit 0.0347 0.0334 6 6 Total waste from our production sites metric tonnes 471 1,573 -70 Waste recycled metric tonnes 128 508 -75 Hazardous waste incinerated or other treatment metric tonnes 112 309 -64 Waste to landfill metric tonnes 136 756 -82 7 Total water consumption at production sites cubic metres 28,900 20,406 42 8 Total lost time accidents days per 100,000 hours worked 0.5 1.17 -57 1 GHG protocol used for data.
Scope 3 emissions have not been calculated.
2 Covers 100% of BTG controlled operations, third-party manufacturing has not been included in either the carbon dioxide generated or the intensity figures.
3 Data from operational sites with more than 20 employees based on energy bills.
4 Emissions from field based and smaller offices estimated based on average US consumption as this is where majority are based, 3% of data is estimated.
5 Conversion factors used: Defra DECC 2013.
6 Waste from our manufacturing and research sites in Australia, USA and UK.
7 Water consumption measured at our production sites in Australia, USA and UK.
8 This includes all accidents wher e one or more days are lost.
UK companies usually only report when three or more days are lost.
Also includes accidents where people have returned to work and were given alternative duties as they were not able to fulfil their normal roles.
Governance Human Rights and Anti-Slavery We are committed to high standards of governance which During the last year we produced a Human Rights Statement, underpin the management of our business affairs.
accessible on our website, which discloses our efforts to eradicate any slavery and human trafficking, should it exist, Code of Conduct from our direct supply chain and addresses the requirements Our Code of Conduct describes the values, principles, policies of the California Transparency in Supply Chain Act.
and procedures we have developed to promote understanding of, and adherence to, the ethical behaviours that we expect of all The Sunshine Act and Open Payments Program employees.
It is regularly updated to reflect changes in Our relationship with our customers is highly regulated, in legislation and annual training is a mandatory requirement for particular in the US.
Transparency is a key theme in the all of our employees.
governance of our relationship with customers.
This year, to ensure that we comply with the National Physicians Payment Anti-bribery and Corruption Transparency Program we have produced a Sunshine Act and We take a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and Open Payments Program brochure for customers detailing their are committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems obligations and to help us collect the necessary data for to counter it.
Our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy provides reporting purposes.
a useful reference guide for employees, and we engage the services of an agency to assist us with global anti-bribery compliance assessments of our business partners.
The US Ph ysician Payment Sunshine Act 2009 requires pharmaceutical and medical device companies, with effect from 1 August 2013, to collect and report to the US Center for Medicine and Medicinal Services CMC the nature of any financial relationships and payments made to licensed physicians and teaching hospitals.
The goal of the law is to increase the transparency of financial relationships between healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and medical device companies.
The reported data will be made available in a publicly searchable database.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Strategic report
