CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Embedding good practice for commercial success As we explain on the following pages, our priorities fall into the areas of our marketplace, workplace, environment and community.
About our corporate responsibility disclosures We have no joint ventures over which we have operational Reporting period control.
We have accounted for leased assets using the same This section of our annual report covers the 2014 financial year consolidation approach used to define our reporting boundary.
and is our second disclosure in accordance with the global reporting initiative GRI guidelines, following our previous report There have been no restatements of information provided in in 2013.
Disclosing our corporate responsibility performance in this earlier disclosures, or any significant changes from previous way helps us to meet regulatory and best practice developments, reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement and provides greater insight into our responsibilities.
To apply GRIs Guidance on Defining Report Content and More information associated Principles, we conducted a sustainability SWOT For more information about our corporate responsibility analysis in 2013, as described on page 21 of our 2013 annual disclosures, please contact shareholderservices@jupiteram.
This allowed us to select material aspects and priority indicators for our disclosures, which we have continued to apply Stakeholder engagement in 2014.
Our GRI Index for 2014 will be made available on We engage our stakeholders to understand the sustainability our website.
issues that are important to them.
Our key stakeholders include our clients, the companies in which we invest, shareholders, Reporting boundary employees, NGOs, policymakers and regulators.
The boundary of our corporate responsibility disclosure is the same as the operational control approach to consolidating The best way to achieve open communication is to offer greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Our chosen GHG methodology stakeholders, including shareholders and employees, several ways Defras Environmental Reporting Guidelines defines this as to communicate with the Board, including by phone, email or operations where we, or one of our subsidiaries, have full in writing.
authority to introduce and implement our operating policies.
We consider that this approach incorporates all of our entities with Our engagement with the companies we invest in is described in sustainability impacts that are actually or potentially material.
The Governance review explains our relations with Jupiters shareholders.
We regularly engage Limitations with our employees through online surveys and staff briefings on At the end of 2014, Jupiter had physical operations in seven our performance and business strategy.
However, we have estimated that the actual or gives more information on our interactions with employees.
potential sustainability impacts of our non-UK offices are immaterial.
We have therefore applied a materiality threshold of five per cent.
for the purposes of reporting sustainability data, in line with practice among similar sized firms in our sector.
Marketplace These policies include: We believe that our biggest sustainability impact comes from looking after the needs of our customers and our engagement Treating customers fairly TCF.
TCF is a core FCA principle, with the companies we invest in.
which promotes fair treatment of customers from product inception through to marketing and post-sales support.
Our TCF Our customers policy commits us to dealing with customers honestly, openly Jupiter is a customer-focused business.
Ultimately, we can only and competently, not just as part of regulatory compliance but succeed by creating and distributing products that our customers as a fundamental guiding principle.
want and that meet their investment needs, by selling and marketing responsibly, and by offering high levels of customer We had three TCF Committees at the start of the year, for the service.
Group, private clients and our funds.
The sale of our private client contracts has allowed us to reduce this to a single The regulatory environment we operate in reinforces our approach.
committee, chaired by Maarten Slendebroek.
The committee Our primary regulator is the FCA, as our business is mainly in the ensures that the services we provide to clients meet our TCF UK.
The FCA oversees all aspects of our work, from how we run obligations and our policy.
our fund management operations to our client communications.
While we also come under the jurisdiction of other regulators in our Conflicts of interest.
This policy sets out potential material international markets, the high standard of UK regulation means conflicts that we have identified, together with procedures and that the FCA sets the benchmark for what we do.
When we face arrangements to prevent these from creating a material risk of overseas regulations that are more onerous than in the UK, we damage to our clients interests.
comply with the higher standard.
Ensuring we meet the needs of our customers comes from a combination of our culture and our governance.
We have worked hard to embed policies, principles and codes of conduct into our culture that align the interests of Jupiter 23 and its employees with those of existing and potential customers.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Implementing our policies In 2014, we voted at 717 shareholder meetings.
Of these, 312 were Our compliance department has responsibility for monitoring that in the UK and 405 were overseas.
We voted against management we successfully implement our policies, principles and codes of or abstained on at least one resolution at 19 per cent.
Methods for ensuring implementation include: meetings and 21 per cent.
training programmes, covering areas such as anti-bribery and The Stewardship Committee corruption, which 80 employees received during the year.
The Stewardship Committee develops and delivers a co-ordinated our employee handbook, which covers core contractual terms, approach to our engagement with chairmen, directors and expected conduct and our policies.
The Head of Investments chairs the audits that ensure we comply with our legal and regulatory committee, which comprises fund managers, the Stewardship obligations, as well as our own rules.
Director and corporate governance and sustainability analysts.
supervisory controls, including a TCF sponsor in every clientThe committee looks at trends in our engagement with facing departments, and companies, the issues that are arising and how we can enhance our corporate governance structure see the Governance review our processes and information gathering.
It also approves our for more information.
submissions to consultations, for example on changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We review our policies on an annual cycle and circulate the updated versions to all staff.
Sustainability Review Committee Our Sustainability Review Committee, also chaired by the Head of Conduct risk Investments, comprises both portfolio managers and dedicated During 2014, the FCA increased its focus on conduct risk, which sustainability and governance specialists.
This Committee reviews considers a firms culture and values, how these influence its Jupiters engagement activity with companies on social and behaviour and the extent to which it prioritises customer environmental issues and monitors these risks and opportunities outcomes.
The purpose is to ensure that firms do not put their own across Jupiters funds.
It also provides oversight of the process by interests ahead of their clients interests.
which companies are approved for investment in ethically screened, socially responsible or environmental solutions funds.
Conduct risk therefore covers many aspects of firms, ranging from Common membership of both committees by governance and the ethos set by the Board, to designing products appropriate for sustainability analysts ensures co-ordination and consistency customers, to the way that employees are remunerated and across our stewardship and sustainability work.
Responsible investment We have begun developing a conduct framework, which we Jupiter has been recognised for its long-term commitment to intend to implement in 2015.
This will include, for example, the responsible investment.
Jupiter was ranked amongst a group of controls, policies and procedures that govern our conduct, our top performing institutions in a report by ShareAction, a charity corporate values, and the ways we embed good conduct into our that works to encourage asset managers to be responsible operations.
The framework will also have an assessment process, owners of investee companies.
ShareAction assessed 33 of the so we can demonstrate our compliance to the FCA.
largest asset managers in the UK on transparency, corporate governance and ESG and Jupiter was placed in the top 3.
Stewardship Jupiters active fund management approach extends to the way More information on the survey and a full ranking can be found at we discharge our stewardship responsibilities.
This means our fund http: shareaction.
managers lead on stewardship, supported by our governance research team and our sustainability resource.
We see this as an We believe that stewardship is fundamental to achieving the best important part of maximising the return we generate for clients, as risk-adjusted returns for our clients.
Our investment teams and well as acting in the best interests of all our stakeholders.
specialist governance and sustainability analysts work closely together at the heart of our business, ensuring that stewardship is We monitor the companies we invest in by hosting or attending integrated into our investment approach.
All our fund managers regular meetings with their management teams.
These meetings understand the importance of, and are actively involved in, voting are integral to our investment process, allowing us to question and decisions and the governance dialogue with companies in challenge companies about the issues we think may affect their partnership with our Governance Research team and sustainability long-term value.
We do not view governance themes in isolation, but seek to understand how these factors impact long-term Outside these meetings with executive teams, we also engage performance.
with chairmen and non-executive directors.
This involves building relationships and obtaining insight to drive sustainable long-term Stranded Assets investment performance.
We look to engage before problems Institutional investors are questioning whether climate change arise and not just hold companies to account after the event.
The policies and or market movements might undermine the value of subjects of these meetings vary but can include strategy, board selected fossil fuel reserves, leaving them as stranded assets.
As a effectiveness, remuneration, shareholder rights, culture, values, leader in responsible investment, Jupiter reviewed its entire direct succession planning and sustainability issues.
During the year, we energy sector exposure.
This research found that we have no engaged with 153 companies to primarily discuss stewardship material exposure to the those companies which, in our view, are related matters.
As discussed, these meetings feature dialogue most at risk from their assets becoming stranded.
These with chairmen or non-executives and were conducted in addition companies include certain US coal and Canadian oil sands to 1,000 meetings held with company management around the companies, whose businesses have been negatively affected by financial calendar.
the US shale revolution and environmental legislation.
As an active 24 manager, Jupiters oil and gas exposure was found to be generally Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 in energy companies with a low marginal production costs, Our remuneration policy is designed to motivate, aid retention, particularly significant in the context of the oil price volatility improve individual and corporate performance and align during the second half of the year.
Jupiters Environmental and employee behaviour with shareholders interests.
Sustainable Strategy team continues to monitor the stranded assets debate closely and update all investment teams accordingly.
Diversity and inclusion At Jupiter, we believe diversity and inclusion is a simple concept More information on stewardship to have the right people, regardless of background, in the right For a more detailed understanding of our stewardship activities, role.
Diversity is the mix: inclusion is getting the mix to work well please visit www.
com to view monthly records and together.
download our latest Voting and Engagement Report.
We believe that the differences between individuals are something Further information on our approach to corporate governance, to be valued as they enable us to be robust and flexible as a corporate responsibility and voting can be found in our Corporate business to better serve our stakeholders.
Governance and Voting Policy and The UK Stewardship Code: Jupiters Approach, both of which are available on our website.
We are committed to growing and nurturing diversity within Jupiter and to promoting mutual understanding and commitment Workplace between our employees.
This is backed up by a zero-tolerance As a people business, Jupiter is dependent on the skills and policy to bullying or harassment, as respect and tolerance are key experience of its people.
We value our employees and aim to to maintaining our high-performance culture.
create a positive culture in which they can work and develop their careers, whilst maintaining a culture of continuous improvement.
The table below shows the gender diversity of our business at the end of 2014: Key people-related activities in 2014 included supporting the Female Male Total Levels establishment of the investment strategy teams, which included succession planning for the funds and giving some individuals Board 2 22% 7 78% 9 greater responsibility.
We also supported the growth in our Members distribution capability through our international offices, as well as Senior 10 16% 53 84% 63 the sale process for our private client contracts, which allowed us Managers to streamline our operating model.
Employees 148 48% 163 52% 311 Talent and performance management We continued to develop our leadership and talent management We have developed our focus on equality with a new diversity in 2014.
This included appointing a head of talent and and inclusion statement and have introduced initiatives such as development, as well as carrying out talent assessments on our unconscious bias training.
We have set the following goals for leadership team.
This has given us a better understanding of our Jupiter: talent pool and a richer succession plan.
We will implement unconscious bias training for our leadership All our employees take part in a six-monthly appraisal process, team.
where we seek their feedback, assess their performance and We will conduct regular employee surveys to ensure we review their training and development needs.
To enhance our understand current diversity and inclusion issues and that they performance management, we have increased our focus on are consistently being addressed.
cascading objectives from the top of the organisation.
This gives In order to build a healthy gender balance into our talent our people a clear line of sight between their own objectives and pipeline, we will aim for 40 per cent.
female participation on our our corporate goals.
We will ensure that women are engaged in the company-wide We encourage all our people to take advantage of ongoing mentoring programme, both as mentors and mentees.
training and development, so they can maximise their performance, reach their potential and help us achieve our In 2014, Jupiter continued to participate in Investment 2020.
In 2014, we rolled out a learning curriculum, aimed at are one of the first adopters of this venture, which gives school different groups of employees within the organisation, from senior leavers and recent graduates from diverse backgrounds one managers to support staff.
It covers the key types of training years paid work experience in investment management.
Although necessary for each role.
The bespoke curriculum is built around there is no guarantee of a job when they complete the placement, Jupiter-specific content.
we were delighted that all our initial intake found permanent roles within Jupiter.
Employee communication and engagement We update our employees through our staff newsletter, staff We aim to support staff with families through enhanced maternity meetings and email.
Maarten Slendebroek holds regular lunches and paternity pay and childcare support.
with staff members, allowing them to discuss issues, strategy and performance.
Other members of the Executive Committee also Health and safety attend these lunches.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that we take all reasonable precautions to provide safe and healthy working conditions, which We run employee surveys to gauge their opinions on important comply with statutory requirements and legally binding codes of issues, such as our impending office move.
Our intention is to practice.
introduce a formal engagement survey, so we can increase our understanding of how employees feel about working for Jupiter Our Health and Safety policy aims to prevent accidents and to 25 and where we can improve.
maintain our employees health while at work.
The prime Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued responsibility for a safe and healthy place to work rests with us, that bring about positive action by companies on issues such as but each employee also has a personal responsibility for looking climate change.
Measuring our environmental impact Health and safety and fire safety audits were conducted during In 2011, we began working with Carbon Credentials to measure the year with no significant issues arising from the audits.
Since then, we have gathered data on a were no significant incidents occurring during the year.
variety of emissions sources, including Scope 3 emissions.
The table below presents the operational boundary for our reported Environment GHG emissions in 2014: We look to reduce our environmental impact and to use resources Direct Building gas Fugitive Owned as efficiently as possible.
To guide our approach, we have an emissions combustion emissions from vehicles environmental policy, the key components of which are as follows: scope 1 RAC Area Our aim equipment Energy Minimise our energy consumption Indirect Building Materials Minimise our raw materials consumption emissions electricity Waste Achieve the best environmental option for scope 2 consumption waste disposal Other relevant Business travel Waste Water Suppliers Assess suppliers environmental indirect disposal consumption performance, as part of our purchasing emissions policy scope 3 Compliance Meet or exceed all the environmental legislation that relates to the Group Our environmental performance The table below breaks down our GHG emissions by scope, as well as providing data on our other environmental impacts: Environmental risks and opportunities Our operations mainly affect the environment through the waste Key performance Change Assumptions or we dispose of, the water we consume and the GHG emissions we indicator 2014 2013 % estimations either directly or indirectly release.
Direct emissions 211.0 124.1 70 Natural gas scope 1 tCO e tCO e consumption for 2 2 Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing the world, Q1 to Q2 has been and has been a particular focus for Jupiter for several years.
Our estimated due to most recent analysis of our climate change risks and opportunities issues concerning was conducted as part of our 2014 CDP Investor disclosure.
give context to our greenhouse gas disclosure, the table below Indirect emissions 288.9 411.7 -30 contains a sample of this information: scope 2 tCO2e tCO2e Other relevant 8.0 8.2 Data for FY2013 Regulatory risks The potential implications for our indirect emissions tCO e tCO e has been restated 2 2 investments stemming from air pollution scope 3 due to recent limits, carbon taxes, cap-and-trade improvements in schemes, fuel or energy taxes and waste data quality regulations, product efficiency or labelling 3 3 Total water 967.2 m 974.2 m 1 Water regulations and standards, and any consumption consumption for associated uncertainty surrounding these 90 days has been Physical risks The potential implications for our estimated due to investments stemming from any changes issues concerning in mean average temperature, changes data availability in temperature extremes, changes in Total weight of mean average precipitation and waste by precipitation pattern, rise in sea level, rise disposal in extreme weather events, and any method associated uncertainty surrounding these Recycling 26.5 27.4 -3 Data for FY2013 Regulatory Regulation in this area may affect tonnes tonnes has been restated opportunities consumer demand for certain products due to recent and services and hence corporate improvements in revenues.
It could also create waste data quality opportunities for companies linked to resource efficiency.
Our ability to identify Energy recovery 19.1 11.4 68 the opportunities that this presents will tonnes tonnes affect the performance of our Landfill 0 tonnes 0 tonnes environmental funds All water is supplied through our local utility All waste disposed is non-hazardous commercial waste or paper cardboard We have managed environmental funds for more than 20 years.
During this time, we have developed a leading knowledge of Each year, we target a reduction in our GHG emissions intensity, environmental investing.
This gives us a potential competitive 26 which we measure as tCO e per employee full time equivalent 2 advantage, derived from regulatory or technological changes Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 FTE.
In 2014, we reduced our combined emissions intensity by 8.2 per cent.
to 1.09 tCO e per employee FTE 2013: 1.18 tCO e per 2 2 employee FTE.
The improvement in our GHG emissions performance results from a number of factors, including: the virtualisation of our servers, as described in the Operating Review, which has reduced electricity use for powering and cooling our servers our continued upgrade of IT and other electrical hardware, to include more energy-efficient models our focus on efficient travelling, and the full-year impact of our initiatives in 2013, which were described in last years Corporate Responsibility section.
Community The difference we make in the community is primarily through charitable giving, which we believe is best directed by our employees.
Towards the end of 2013, we established a charity committee to look at how to boost giving from employees.
In 2014, the committee launched an appeal to increase the number of our people involved in our Give As You Earn scheme, which is administered for us by the Charities Aid Foundation CAF.
The scheme allows employees to donate directly from payroll, before deduction of income tax and National Insurance.
We then double the amount each employee donates, up to a limit of 800.
This means that if an employee donates 400 of pre tax salary in a year, the total contribution is 1,200.
This money sits in a bank account set up by CAF but controlled by the employee, and the employee receives a cheque book, allowing them to donate from their account and support the charities of their choice.
The appeal proved successful, with employee participation increasing from 24 per cent.
In total, Jupiter contributed around 80,600 to match employees donations.
The charity committees remit also included selecting a new partner charity for Jupiter in 2015.
The Committee have elected to support Alzheimers Society in 2015 which was considered a good fit for Jupiter due to the ongoing challenge to meet the financial burden of care and the broad demographic impact.
During 2015 we will be arranging a number of fundraising activities for staff to support and participate in to raise funds for the charity.
Movember is a charity which raises funds to promote mens health issues and is a cause close to staff at Jupiter following the death of a colleague from prostate cancer in 2013.
During November this year, staff worked to raise 27,000 for the charity and won the award for the highest fund-raising team in the City AM Financial Challenge.
Jupiter remains proud to sponsor the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment, which we have supported for the past 15 years.
We have established a successful relationship, based on shared strengths of quality and innovation.
A team of employees cycled to Paris to raise 15,445 for the Great Ormond Street Hospital, and across the company events were held to support Jeans for Genes, Macmillan, and Save the Children charities during 2014.
27 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE 30 Chairmans introduction 31 The Leadership Framework 32 Board of Directors 39 Nomination Committee report 41 Audit Committee report 46 Remuneration report 65 Directors report 69 Statement of Directors responsibilities
