CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We encourage our suppliers to set similar corporate responsibility standards to ourselves while our consolidated delivery and product solutions assist our customers in meeting their sustainability goals.
BUSINESS CONTEXT Materiality We are a focused and successful international distribution and Understanding our material issues is important to enable us to outsourcing group with operations across the Americas, Europe and manage our CR related impacts and stakeholder relationships Australasia.
By outsourcing the purchasing, consolidation and delivery effectively.
It also helps to focus our resources, engagement and of a broad range of everyday items, our customers are able to focus on reporting activities by addressing those issues most material to their core businesses, achieve purchasing efficiencies and savings, our business.
Our current areas of focus are: free up working capital, improve distribution capabilities, reduce carbon emissions and simplify their internal administration.
business conduct code of ethics: training to ensure everyone understands our standards: We do not manufacture any products but as part of our business employees: engaging through clear communication using a variety strategy we source and procure branded, own brand and unbranded of channels, as well as provision of training and development products globally.
These products are then consolidated into our opportunities: extensive global warehouse infrastructure, giving our customers a one-stop-shop solution to help reduce or eliminate the hidden costs health & safety: improving safety in the warehouses and on our of self-distribution and reduce their environmental impact.
We also vehicles and ensuring that everyone takes personal responsibility offer several delivery options to ensure our customers get their for this: products when and where they are needed.
environment: reducing our and our customers impacts on the environment by reducing carbon emissions and promoting the Sourcing reduction of waste and providing innovative products to meet our We source everyday essential non-food items for a number of market customers needs, for example environmentally friendly packaging: sectors including grocery, foodservice, cleaning & hygiene, safety, retail and healthcare.
We liaise closely with our suppliers so that we community: providing support by encouraging employee fund are able to offer a full range of items which satisfy our customers raising, donating to charitable projects that benefit our employees demands, including offering alternative products which reduce and the communities we work in and by donating stock and cash to environmental impact and thereby climate change.
Our quality charitable organisations and good causes: and assurance quality control department based in Shanghai monitors suppliers: responsible sourcing, working as partners with and works with our key suppliers in Asia to ensure that appropriate our suppliers to encourage high levels of CR and ethical corporate responsibility CR standards are in place.
Consolidation These issues are governed by a policy framework, which is approved We have an extensive footprint of warehouse facilities across four and monitored by the Board, with implementation at a business continents.
As a result, our broad range of products are never far area level.
from where they need to be, allowing us to facilitate our customers needs quickly and easily, as well as reducing the number of deliveries BUSINESS CONDUCT CODE OF ETHICS to our customers, thereby cutting fuel usage, carbon emissions The Groups business conduct code of ethics policy is disseminated to and administration.
every employee as a guide to how employees are expected to conduct themselves both from a corporate and individual perspective.
The Distribution policy clearly states that employees should avoid conflicts of interest, With our fleets of delivery vehicles and third party carriers, we are provides guidance on the giving and receiving of gifts and entertainment, able to get products to our customers in a timely manner.
Our flexible prohibits illegal payments as well as political donations and delivery service allows our customers to increase the efficiency and reinforces the need to comply with laws, rules and regulations, competitiveness of their operations.
protect confidential information and company assets and maintain high standards in relationships with our customers and suppliers.
As well as day-to-day operations, our business relies on developing strong and stable relationships with all of our stakeholders.
We No material breaches of our business conduct code of ethics policy believe in managing our business with integrity, making sustainable, were recorded in 2014.
However, some minor incidents relating to long term decisions.
employee conduct, such as theft or misuse of the Groups property, did occur and were dealt with during the normal course of business STRATEGY, FRAMEWORK AND MATERIALITY using Group human resource HR policies and procedures.
Nine We believe that positive actions with respect to CR are not only 2013: seven calls letters were received through our confidential desirable in their own right but are also of potential economic and whistle blowing process, Speak Up, none of which raised any commercial benefit to the Group.
A strong reputation for CR can issues of material concern.
provide business advantage and contribute to shareholder value.
Conversely, perceived weakness in CR may damage our reputation Performance against 2014 objectives and cause risks.
Bunzls good practice in sustainability has been Our CR policies, processes, controls and monitoring CR Framework recognised by its FTSE4Good listing and Carbon Disclosure Project were last updated in 2011.
During 2014 we undertook a review of the CDP score.
Details of our strategy and framework in relation CR Framework taking into account feedback provided by various to CR can be found on the Bunzl plc website in the Responsibility bodies who report on Bunzls CR practices and performance.
result, no fundamental changes were made to the CR Framework but a number of amendments were made to the CR policy and some of our controls and monitoring processes were refreshed and re-emphasised, particularly in areas related to our supply chain.
For further details see the Suppliers section on page 40.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED In light of the above review, we delayed the launch of our new The average number of employees employed by the Group has e-learning module on competition law and refreshed the whole risen in the year principally due to acquisitions.
The number of suite of nine tailored e-learning modules, including modules which females at senior management level has increased slightly to 10% provide an overview of the business conduct code of ethics policy 2013: 9%.
In February 2015 another female non-executive director and anti-bribery issues such as facilitation payments and gifts was appointed to the Board.
From 1 May 2015 the Board will and entertainment.
In addition we have added a further module comprise seven males and two females.
During the year we on cybersecurity.
Finally we refreshed the posters which are launched a womens network and are currently considering piloting displayed in all our facilities to advertise our whistle blowing some further development and training exclusively for women.
Our Group employee engagement survey, which we periodically carry out, was conducted in September 2014.
We were pleased 2015 objectives with our overall response rate of 72% and an engagement index All directors, managers, sales representatives and purchasing score of 74% against a benchmark of 72%.
Of those employees who staff to undertake again all of the e-learning modules within the responded, 93% reported that they enjoyed working for Bunzl.
Selective modules such as introduction to CR, environment, health & safety and cybersecurity to be viewed more widely.
2015 objectives Continue to work with our supply chain to encourage our suppliers Continue to monitor key HR measures such as voluntary turnover, to maintain similar CR standards to those maintained by Bunzl.
sickness absence, training days, workforce gender and age mix and, as appropriate, take action to address any issues that may arise.
EMPLOYEES Feed back the results of the employee engagement survey and Bunzl currently operates in 27 countries worldwide.
We are a service develop action plans as appropriate.
provider, not a manufacturer and, as such, our business relies heavily on the skills and experience of our employees.
We pride ourselves on HEALTH & SAFETY the fact that we run our businesses locally with local managers.
We The health and safety of our employees and other stakeholders do not unfairly discriminate and we respect human rights.
Although we try to minimise the risks which occur, recruit the right people who are passionate about our business and to particularly relating to the operation of our warehouses and vehicles, provide opportunities for people to progress within the organisation incidents relating to manual handling, slipping and tripping remain on the basis of their skills, experience and aptitude.
We believe the highest causes of accidents.
Regretfully in the 2014 reporting that to get the best from people we need to respect each other and period there were two fatalities 2013: one both resulting from road encourage honest, straightforward communication.
In October 2013 a driver from UK & Ireland was pipeline continues to be a valuable source of management talent for killed when he was involved in a multi-vehicle collision and in May the Group and the completion of a number of acquisitions during the 2014 a third party died when their car collided head on with a Bunzl year has brought further highly skilled people into Bunzl.
Details of truck in North America.
Bunzl has been advised that the drivers of the Groups workforce diversity at 31 December 2014 are set out in other vehicles involved have been prosecuted in relation to both of the pie charts on page 39. these incidents.
We continue to undertake a number of activities to improve the safety of our employees including extending the use of Human rights vehicle telematics to monitor driver performance, closure of older Bunzl adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights UDHR premises and other site improvements, purchase of new equipment and upholds the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work policies, and training programmes for managers and staff to raise awareness defined by the International Labour Organization, as well as local of safety issues.
Our Safety Observations Programme, introduced laws.
The majority of countries in which Bunzl operates have their initially in North America, seeks to ensure the implementation of own laws banning child labour and promoting human rights.
As part of our 2014 employee survey we We monitor the age of our workforce across the world to ensure asked whether employees perceived that Bunzl took their health compliance and identify any potential succession issues.
In the and safety seriously and 85% of respondents scored us positively US some of our operations, particularly in the north east, are in this area.
We will be using the results of the survey to identify represented by trade unions with which we have negotiated pay whether there are any particular areas on which we need to focus.
Bunzl does not restrict any of its employees in any of the countries in which it operates from joining a trade union if they wish Performance against 2014 objectives to do so.
We also work closely with our suppliers to ensure that they The 2014 target was to reduce the Group accident incidence rate at least meet internationally recognised minimum requirements for by 3% and the Group accident severity rate by 5% from the 2013 workers welfare and conditions of employment, as defined by the accident rates: International Labour Organization or the Ethical Trading Initiative.
for the year ended 30 September 2014 our accident incidence Performance against 2014 objectives rate reduced by 19%: and The Groups annual voluntary turnover Turnover, that is the for the same period our accident severity rate reduced by 3%.
percentage of employees resigning from the Group, in 2014 was 10.5% 2013: 7.5%.
Turnover levels have increased principally The accident incidence rate improved in excess of the target in all in both North America and UK & Ireland reflecting improved business areas.
North America and Latin America improved their economic conditions rather than any intrinsic reasons related to severity rate in excess of the target but unfortunately performance the Group.
As reported previously, considering the profile of our in Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Australasia deteriorated.
workforce, the 2013 Turnover was thought to be artificially low due The Bunzl Risk Management Committee reviews safety performance to the prevailing economic conditions in many of the countries in of the Group and reports quarterly to the Board.
A number of actions which we operate.
Sickness absence has remained relatively flat have been instigated, including site visits, communication programmes, year on year.
Sickness absence rates remain appreciably higher in and in some areas the recruitment of additional technical health Continental Europe than any other part of the Group.
No underlying and safety professionals to focus further our programmes of issues of concern have been identified and the higher levels are improvement.
Details of our performance from 2011 to 2014 are thought to be attributable to the social network rather than any provided in the bar charts on page 39.
The accident data provided is intrinsic reasons relating to the Group.
for the whole Group including acquisitions made during the relevant reporting period.
38 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 2015 objectives Reduce the Group accident incidence rate by 3% from 2014.
Reduce the Group accident severity rate by 5% from 2014.
Average number 16% of employees ENVIRONMENT By business area 36% We seek to prevent, mitigate and remediate the harmful effects of Bunzls operations on the environment.
To ameliorate our impact on North America 5,194 and exposure to climate change, our facilities operate worldwide to 24% Continental Europe 3,472 Group standards, we promote environmental awareness throughout UK & Ireland 3,569 the business and our branch network mitigates against the effects Rest Of The World 2,322 24% of extreme local climate conditions.
Our reported environmental data includes all businesses that are subsidiaries of the Group for financial reporting purposes, with the exception of those recent acquisitions where there has been insufficient opportunity for the Total workforce Senior management acquired businesses to adopt our reporting guidelines, in which case Gender split at 31 Dec 2014 Gender split at 31 Dec 2014 the revenue from those businesses is not included when calculating the indexed emissions.
Bunzl had no significant environmental Male 9,299 Male 343 incidents in 2014.
Female 4,991 Female 39 Water usage is principally confined to workplace cleaning and hygiene purposes.
If we lease a purpose built site, wherever possible 10% the specification includes water harvesting to minimise further our 35% use and, on some large sites where there are extensive outstanding periods on the lease term, we will investigate the cost-effectiveness of implementing water harvesting.
We continue to measure water 65% usage across a sample of our sites worldwide and our usage per employee is largely unchanged since the 2011 water audit.
90% ISO 14001 accreditation was renewed in a number of locations during the year.
To date all sites in UK & Ireland and Australasia, Board composition with the exception of the most recent acquisitions, and many sites 8 male, 1 female in Continental Europe are accredited.
By revenue this represents approximately 30% of the Group.
Waste 0.16 Performance against 2014 objectives Tonnes per m revenue Greenhouse gas emissions data for period 1 October to 30 September 0.14 0.08 Tonnes of CO e 2 Incinerated waste Base year 2010 2013 2014 General waste 0.80 Scope 1 95,249 89,397 93,641 Recovered recycled waste 1.73 0.73 Scope 2 28,757 30,465 31,204 0.93 1.30 Total gross emissions 124,006 119,862 124,845 1.14 Total carbon emissions per m revenue 26.3 20.8 20.9 Included in the external auditors limited assurance scope referred to on page 36 of the 2013 Annual Report.
12 13 14 Included in the external auditors limited assurance scope referred to on page 41.
Our target for 2014 was to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon Incidence rate Severity rate emissions relative to revenue by 26% from 2010, our base year.
Average number of incidents Average number of days This data covers around 99% of the Group by revenue.
During per month per 100,000 lost per month per the reporting period, 17 acquisitions were completed adding total employees 100,000 employees revenue of c. 121 million.
12 of these acquisitions, representing 159 3,552 87% of this revenue, are included in the 2014 carbon emissions 3,514 3,446 3,421 data from the date of acquisition.
140 135 Scope 1: emission rates per m of revenue have increased between 2013 and 2014 by 1% see the KPI bar chart on page 15 109 representing a decrease from 2010, our base year, of 22%.
In 2014 the contribution of fuel for transportation to Bunzls Scope 1 emissions decreased slightly to around 84% 2013: 85%.
The level of fuel consumed per 000 of revenue decreased between 2013 and 2014 by 2% see the KPI bar chart on page 15.
As part of our strategy of operational efficiency we continually review the routing and efficiency of our fleet and will transfer to third party carriers where this is shown to be more beneficial from a cost and carbon 11 12 13 14 11 12 13 14 emissions perspective.
We focus on improved fuel efficiency Included in the external auditors limited assurance scope referred to on page 41. through regular renewal of our fleet, driver training and the use of telematics providing in-cab feedback on performance.
Many of the BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED businesses acquired since 2010 do not operate their own transport 2015 objectives fleets.
Gas consumption has increased by around 18% against Using the 2010 data as the baseline, reduce the Scope 1 carbon the previous year.
North America consumes more than 80% of emissions by 25% 3% from 2014 to 2015 and the Scope 2 carbon the gas used by the Group and in 2014 their consumption increased emissions by 17% 2% from 2014 to 2015. by 35%.
The majority of this increase related to acquisitions, Complete the development of a Scope 3 carbon emissions report either reporting for the first time or due to the full year impact of in line with the Groups reporting guidelines.
acquisitions made in the previous year, as well as the very harsh winter weather conditions in North America in early 2014.
The Implement the requirement of the Energy Saving Opportunity remainder was due to extensions in warehouse capacity to enable Scheme ESOS as appropriate.
us to service the organic growth within our business.
These More closely integrate the environmental reporting with our increases far outweighed the substantial reductions in gas financial reporting processes.
consumption made in Continental Europe and UK & Ireland due to milder weather compared with the previous year, as well as COMMUNITY steps taken to improve energy efficiency.
We continue to focus Although Bunzls operations are international, our strength is on improving energy consumption, taking measures which include in the local nature of our businesses.
In keeping with this ethos, replacement and maintenance of boilers and heating systems we particularly support the fund raising activities championed by and thermostatically controlling individual radiators.
This is supplemented by donations made at Scope 2: emission rates per m of revenue decreased between Group level to charities predominantly in the fields of healthcare, 2013 and 2014 by 2% see the KPI bar chart on page 15 and from disability and the environment as well as benevolent societies to 2010, our base year, have decreased by 15%.
Although there support projects in communities where our operations are based.
was an increase in units of electricity consumed as the result of Where possible and appropriate, Bunzl also looks to donate stock acquisitions either reporting for the first time or due to the full year free of charge in-kind.
Group wide, Bunzl donated a total of effect of acquisitions made in 2013, this was offset by our continued 572,000 2013: 580,000 to charities in 2014, up 3% at constant investment in energy improvement projects.
In relation to such exchange rates.
This does not include in-kind donations or employee projects, as we lease most of our facilities we need to ensure that fund raising.
there is an appropriate level of payback on the capital expenditure required and in the time remaining on the lease.
Where it has SUPPLIERS been shown to be cost-effective, we have installed energy efficient Price is only one factor in our purchasing decisions and matters such lighting, making use of the technical advancements available as quality, availability, our customers preferences and our policies which reduce the cost of such programmes.
In North America are also taken into account.
The vast majority of our products are wherever possible we negotiate with our landlords to make such sourced locally by our businesses but many products are sourced improvements a condition of lease renewal.
Our new facility at elsewhere if it is appropriate to do so.
In 2014 less than 20% Birch Coppice in the UK is designed to make maximum use of 2013: 18% of our products were sourced from lower cost countries.
daylight and we are seeing substantial reductions in electricity as Each business area is responsible for implementing appropriate a result of this combined with its up-to-date lighting system.
Other processes to assess key suppliers compliance with the relevant CR projects include installation of high frequency energy chargers, standards and to monitor performance and improvements against voltage optimisation and the purchase of more efficient chargers such standards.
Bunzl focuses on its key suppliers to ensure that for our material handling equipment.
In addition, we have run they meet the same CR standards we have set for ourselves.
We have successful Switch off campaigns where we have involved our written to those suppliers that provide us with 50% of our products by staff in conserving electricity and this has resulted in savings value to update them on our CR aspirations and to encourage them to being made even in those facilities where physical site adopt a similar approach.
improvements have not yet been implemented.
To assist the business areas, we have our own quality assurance Waste data covers around 95% 2013: 96% of the Group by revenue.
quality control team based in Shanghai whose main aim is to perform When calculating the index, the revenue has been amended to regular audits of our suppliers in Asia to ensure that they meet take account of those businesses in Latin America, Israel and international standards, as well as testing the factories production Australasia that are not currently reporting.
We continue to capabilities and their quality assurance and quality control systems.
increase waste segregation facilities and staff are encouraged to Employees terms and conditions of work, customer service, work towards zero waste to landfill both in our warehouses and hygiene management systems and their policies and practices on offices.
We have reduced the amount of virgin packaging purchased environmental issues are also checked.
Our policy is that all our by the Group by reusing transit packaging wherever possible.
suppliers meet internationally recognised minimum requirements The accuracy of the waste to landfill data varies depending for workers welfare and conditions of employment, as defined by on the waste contractor and wherever possible we appoint the International Labour Organization or the Ethical Trading Initiative.
contractors who are able to weigh waste at the point of collection.
During 2014 the team has continued to grow and has further refined Scope 3: we have sought to develop our Scope 3 carbon emissions its CR audit programme to categorise suppliers appropriately in reporting in line with our CR reporting guidelines.
While much relation to their standards and practices.
progress has been made, we have found it difficult to obtain suitable and consistent data from our third party carriers.
We have Suppliers who are unable to meet all the requirements after an initial now identified a methodology which we will implement throughout assessment audit are given the opportunity to comply fully within the Group and are in the process of developing the 2014 footprint a period which is deemed appropriate for the circumstances.
If a to form a baseline for future years.
serious breach is identified following assessment, an action plan is documented and the supplier is expected to commit to addressing all the areas where discrepancies have been identified.
The process of improvement via this method is principally reliant on the commitment of the suppliers management team owner agent to ensure that all 40 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 areas are addressed.
If we have reason to believe that the supplier A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than is not making sufficient or committed progress, this could lead to a a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk suspension in the relationship until such time that we are confident assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, that all areas are being satisfactorily addressed.
Bunzl companies and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks.
In reserve the right to cease a relationship with a supplier if it is found order to reach their opinion, PwC performed a range of procedures that unacceptable practices are being employed at any sites used for including making enquiries of relevant Bunzl management, and producing or sourcing Bunzl products.
Such practices include use evaluating the design of the key structures, systems, processes of child labour, forced or bonded labour as well as physical abuse or and controls for managing, recording and reporting the selected discipline and intimidation.
To enhance the processes further, from information.
This included analysing and visiting three sites selected 2015 any suppliers that are being monitored and assessed due to on the basis of their inherent risk and materiality to the Group, identification of a serious breach will also be reported to the Board to understand the key processes and controls for reporting site and their progress tracked.
performance data and to obtain supporting information.
Finally PwC performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis During 2014 we continued to liaise with suppliers and refined and of the selected information in relation to the three sites.
introduced a process to ensure that any paper or wood based products are from sustainable sources in compliance with the Non-financial performance information, including greenhouse gas relevant timber regulations.
quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information.
It is important to read the selected corporate For more information on all of Bunzls CR policies and activities responsibility information contained in this Annual Report in the please visit the Responsibility section of www.
context of PwCs full limited assurance opinion and the Companys Corporate Responsibility Performance Reporting Guidelines which EXTERNAL ASSURANCE are also available in the Responsibility section of our website.
We engaged  LLP PwC to undertake a limited assurance engagement, reporting to Bunzl plc only, using RISKS International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000: The Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 34 and 35 Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a Financial Information and ISAE 3410: Assurance Engagements on material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or Greenhouse Gas Statements over the three KPIs on page 15 and results of operations.
Although many CR risks are not seen as the data on page 39, in each case that has been highlighted with the principal risks to the Group, as part of the Group risk analysis a symbol.
They have provided an unqualified opinion in relation number of CR risks which could impact the Groups business have to the relevant KPIs and data and their full assurance opinion is been identified and these are set out below together with the steps available in the Responsibility section of our website, www.
taken by management to mitigate such risks: Risk Mitigating factors CR compliance failures Lack of adherence to the Groups CR policies could result in a The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures variety of issues including those relating to inappropriate business including those relating to anti-bribery and corruption in place practices, accidents at work and increased levies due to levels of throughout the business as well as an established reporting waste or carbon emissions.
Loss of key employees The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based on The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate incentive strong customer and supplier relationships which are built up packages, development opportunities and career progression.
Stability of key relationship roles amongst the Groups Voluntary staff turnover is measured on a monthly basis, which employees is therefore important.
enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Loss of operating facilities unavailability of staff Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in more conditions.
This could result in some of the Groups facilities being than one location as a result of which the Group usually has the affected or employees being unable to attend for work.
ability to distribute products from nearby facilities.
Business continuity plans are in place to minimise the impact of any such issues.
Suppliers non-compliance with good CR practices The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international The Groups key suppliers are principally publicly owned suppliers across the world.
The failure of one of the Groups key multinational organisations with high standards of operations.
suppliers to adhere to recognised CR standards could affect the Suppliers are monitored by the Groups purchasing departments Groups reputation.
and the quality assurance quality control department based in China audits many suppliers throughout Asia.
Key suppliers are made aware of the Groups CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business environment as previously outlined in this report.
