Strategic Report Great Brand, Great Company OUR People Burberry recognises that its people are its greatest asset and therefore it strives to attract the best talent worldwide, to provide meaningful development opportunities for employees at all levels and to reward and recognise high performance.
People An intensified focus on Burberrys recruitment strategy The Burberry ethos is to establish its business as a andemployer brand supported the launch in March 2014 vibrantglobal community made up of diverse individuals, ofa new multilingual careers website, featuring rich brand from varied backgrounds, who are connected through content and detailed material developed specifically to shared values and purpose.
Burberry has maintained provide candidates with a stronger senseof the employee itscommitment to supporting diversity and equal experience at Burberry.
opportunities in its recruitment, talent development and reward structures.
With over 10,000 employees operating Retain in34 countries, Burberrys employees derive from over Burberry takes steps to identify and nurture high potential 100different nationalities and have an age span of between employees.
In particular, high potential employees are invited 17 and 77 years.
to participate in the Burberry Leadership Council, which provides them with opportunities to evolve their leadership Burberry strives to ensure that its processes for hiring, skills through international networking opportunities, global developing and promoting its employees are fair and that strategy off-sites, mentoring from senior executives and women have the opportunity to be represented at every leadership training workshops.
In 2013 14, 56 employees level of the organisation.
As at 31 March 2014, of a global took part in the Leadership Council, 55% of whom are employee population of 10,604, 68% 7,253 were female based in the regions across both retail and office teams.
and 32% 3,351 were male, with women occupying 49 38% of the 128 senior management roles.
Please see page Burberry continued to strengthen its retail teams thereby 79 for information on the diversity of the Burberry Board.
securing a talent pipeline for the future.
The Retail Women are consistently well represented in Burberrys Management Programme, which prepares retail associates talent development programmes, with 70% ofparticipants for a career in store management, was rolled out to selected for the 2014 Leadership Council being female.
associates in the EMEIA region and extended in Asia Thisdiversity continues to enrich and strengthen Burberrys Pacificto include external graduate recruits.
To reflect culture, helping to drive its success as a luxury brand.
thecritical role of the store manager, a tailored training anddevelopment programme focusing on Burberrys Recruit visionfor luxury service has been rolled out globally Burberrys increased social media exposure helped to tobetter support store managers and empower them increase the total annual applications to over 160,000, toactively drive the performance of their stores.
a7%uplift on the previous year.
A 132% year-on-year increase in Burberry followers on LinkedIn led to The on-boarding programme which inducts new retail approximately 22,000 applications being made via the associates into the Company was enhanced with platform, comprising around 14% of overall applications theintroduction of a new, bespoke Retail Manager received by the Company this year.
Burberry was ranked on-boarding programme, which includes face-to-face 30th globally and 12th in the UK as LinkedIns Most training, in-store placements and e-learning.
programme has been rolled out globally to all regions.
On the basis that direct recruitment is more effective, Reward including in relation to costs, a new corporate team Burberry continued to strengthen the link between reward structure was implemented for resourcing, with a specialist and performance across the organisation, with all employees resourcing partner supporting each function in meeting able to participate in a bonus or incentive scheme.
During the year this has led to 81%of recruitment being conducted directly and an In addition, Burberrys All Employee Freeshare Plan operated almostthree-fold growth in employee referrals.
across 32 countries enabling all employees toshare in theongoing success of the business and reinforcing 44 Strategic Report Great Brand, Great Company theCompanys connected culture.
In recognition of the Connect, a new section of Burberry World, was launched positive impact of its global share plans, Burberry won to provide digital HR tools for employees globally to theifsProShare 2013 award for Best overall performance support international mobility and succession planning, infostering employee share ownership 1,001 15,000 share plans management and resourcing.
Aspart of the employees and was particularly lauded for its extensive initiative an Ask HR service, enabling employee queries communication and translation of plan information and for tobe raised and handled online, waslaunched in the UK providing a high level of accessibility for employees across and parts of Europe, with further regions to follow.
has been designed to enable employees to manage many aspects of their work and careers at Burberry while offering Burberry also continued to operate its innovative seasonal enhanced visibility andcontrol for the business.
programmes, which provide employees with benefits which aid them in their general well-being and enable them to Burberrys global community includes a network of connect and engage with the brand through ashared keyglobal partners with whom it collaborates closely.
celebration of key brand moments such as theProrsum Avariety of tailored communications programmes have shows, key store openings and other specialevents.
strengthened partner relationships and further extended the reach of the Burberry brand and culture.
Over the The Burberry Icon Awards programme, which recognises course of the year the partner network within Burberry employees across the regions and corporate who have World more than doubled, with over 1,600 individual gone above and beyond their normal responsibilities partners now connected to the Burberry teams through intheirperformance and contribution to the Burberry theplatform and able to access brand information and brand, business and culture, reached its seventh news as well as group conversations focused around anniversary.
A new digital nominations platform within specific initiatives or business areas.
Burberry World enhanced employee engagement and increased accessibility of the programme, with a record Human rights statement 15,097 nominations received globally.
99 awards were Burberry recognises its responsibility to seek to protect presented across four regions, in categories inspired human rights wherever it operates.
Burberry has conducted bytheBurberry brand, heritage and core values.
a materiality analysis of its operations and activities which has enabled Burberry to identify the principal human rights The Long Service Awards scheme celebrated the loyalty risks that might arise in the course of its business activities.
and commitment of around 580 employees who reached The Company believes that these risks arise principally in milestone service anniversaries with Burberry, including relation to its own workforce, its supply chain and with seven employees with 30 years service or more.
Connect Burberrys Human Rights Policy sets out the procedures Burberry continued to establish connections between its which the Company has put in place to protect and uphold employees, contractors and partners, leveraging digital human rights in this context, including the mechanisms to technology and, in particular, Burberry World, to enhance redress any instances of potential infringement which may training, talent development, collaboration and visibility arise in connection with the Companys operations and ofinformation across all its global locations.
This policy was developed with reference to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Over the year, bi-monthly Chat Live interviews offered Rights.
Responsibility for this policy lies with Burberrys employees insights into the varied backgrounds and Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer.
inspiring paths that have led some of the organisations keyleaders to their current roles, across both retail Given Burberrys global footprint, the implementation of andcorporate, with the discussions being filmed and thispolicy can be challenging.
Burberry has established streamed live to offices and stores globally, providing astrong global team who work to promote human rights allemployees with the opportunity to take part in a live and good labour practices in the Burberry workplace question and answer session.
As part of the Burberry aswell as in the Companys supply chain.
Please see Speaker Series, external commercial and philanthropic Burberry Beyond on page 47 for more information on leaders were also invited to motivate and inspire this.
Additionalgrievance mechanisms have also been employees, with their views recorded and shared established in areas where local labour laws are weak, withalllocations through Burberry World.
