OTHER INFORMATION 121 Charitable trust Man volunteers provided over 1,000 hours of support to those in need in Despite the economic recovery, the the local community, undertaking a range of activities including running voluntary sector remains in a state financial literacy programmes and weekly reading sessions for primary school children, transforming outdoor spaces and sorting and packaging ofchange and reorganisation, facing food at a local foodbank.
Volunteers also planted poppies at the Tower of London as part of the major art installation marking the centenary of the acontinuing increase in demand for First World War, raising funds for six service charities.
Smaller charities and community groups in some of the most deprived areas of the UK have been among the worst hit by the recession, and public spending cuts have had amajor impact on individuals and communities, making those with low levels of basic skills more vulnerable toeconomic hardship.
In 2014, the Trust concentrated its grant-making activity on charities working with children, adults and schools to improve their literacy and numeracy skills and raise educational attainment.
Literacy and numeracy skills are essential to the happiness, health and economic wellbeing of individuals and society.
It is well documented that low levels of these skills lead to a large number of poor outcomes and are linked to unemployment or dependence on state benefits, low wages and poor health.
A 2013 Skills Survey conducted by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, showed that the literacy and numeracy skills of young people in England are among the lowest in the developed world, with a talent pool of highly skilled adults likely to shrink relative to other countries.
It is vital that these findings are addressed to ensure that the UK does not suffer a severe skills shortage and has a literate and numerate workforce to be able to compete in the global economy infuture years.
The Trust continued to utilise its reserves in 2014, spending $787,000 on charitable donations and employee engagement programmes in the period and enabling the charities we support to leverage approximately $1 million from other funding sources.
In the UK our supported Employees additionally took part in a number of volunteering and projects benefited thousands of vulnerable children, young people and fundraising activities for our Annual Charity, the Childrens Cancer adults living in disadvantaged neighbourhoods, providing them with Recovery Project, supporting their work with children and families the essential skills they need to succeed in life and make a positive coping with a childs cancer diagnosis.
Employees ran, jumped out contribution to society.
ofaeroplanes, baked cakes and donated hundreds of toys to sick children in hospitals and hospices across the UK.
Our supported charities also gained from the time and effort given by Man employees through our ManKind community volunteering We would like to express our thanks to all the Man employees who programme.
The positive social benefits that stem from employees supported our charitable programmes during the year and to those who skills, experience and knowledge can make a real difference to local donated via their Give as You Earn accounts.
In 2015, the Trust intends communities.
Volunteering also provides a highly cost-effective and to continue to provide support to charities that are able to evidence their valuable method of achieving positive learning and development benefits ability to improve literacy and numeracy outcomes.
for our employees and we are delighted that 23% volunteered their time, enthusiasm and skills during the past year.
Lisa Clarke Trust Manager MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OTHER INFORMATION 122 Featured grants Registered charity no: 275386 BEANSTALK NATIONAL NUMERACY Beanstalk is a national charity that recruits, trains and supports National Numeracy is a charity set up to tackle low levels of numeracy volunteers to work in primary schools in the most deprived areas among adults and children throughout the UK and to change negative ofEngland with children who have fallen behind with their reading.
It works to influence politicians, business and education and highlight the importance of good numeracy in the Beanstalks trained reading helpers work with children aged 611 on media.
It also helps to put research into practice by scaling up effective a one to one basis, giving them consistent support to improve reading approaches for those who need most support with numeracy.
Last year levels, increase overall confidence and help them gain the vital literacy the charity worked with over 150 schools to improve the teaching and skills they need to succeed in education, training and employment.
Lastyear Beanstalk helped over 8,400 children across England and 74% of the children they worked with progressed by at least two The Trusts donation supported the National Numeracy Challenge, readingsub-levels.
a nationwide drive designed to tackle the major issue of low adult numeracy in the UK and improve every day skills in over 1m adults The Trusts donation supported Beanstalks growth in London.
SPRINGBOARD FOR CHILDREN NATIONAL LITERACY TRUST Springboard works to improve the life opportunities of disadvantaged The National Literacy Trust is a national charity dedicated to raising children who are at risk of being left behind in the education system literacy levels in the UK.
The charity works to improve the reading, because they struggle to read and write.
writing, speaking and listening skills in the UKs most disadvantaged communities where up to 40% of people have literacy problems.
They Through skilled tutors, trained volunteers and secondary school peers, focus their work on families, young people and children establishing Springboard works to improve literacy in challenged schools and literacy projects in the poorest areas, inspiring and supporting children communities, primarily in socially and economically disadvantaged and families to improve their skills.
In 2013 14 the charity supported over areasof the UK.
61,000 children with their literacy skills and trained and supported 4,700 teachers to improve literacy outcomes in schools across the UK.
The Trusts donation supported Springboards Expert Programme for children with complex learning needs who have a level of literacy at least The Trusts donation supported the National Literacy Trusts Literacy 2 years behind their peers.
Children who graduated from the programme through Culture programmes in London during 2013 14 narrowed the gap between their reading age and their chronological age, on average, from 22 months to just 8 months.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Man Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014 man.
com man Group plc riverbank House 2 swan lane london ec4r 3ad 44 0 20 7144 1000
