STRATEGIC REPORT 26 People and corporate responsibility In 2013, we hired apprentices for the first time in the UK through People participation in the Ladder for London initiative a scheme launched In Investment Management our people bythe Evening Standard to help tackle youth unemployment in London.
Our apprentices were offered a 12 month full-time position, and attended are our assets and losing them is one of college for one day per week during their first six months.
To ensure our biggest risks.
We focus on delivering the apprentices got maximum benefit from their work placements, they were supported by supervisors, assigned buddies and HR.
They superior performance and client service were also given regular exposure to management through discussion by attracting and retaining the highest sessions at which they provided progress updates to members of the senior leadership team.
The programme gave the apprentices widecalibre individuals.
By coaching and ranging and valuable experience which will help them build their careers.
developing our people to be the best, One apprentice was successful in receiving an offer for a full-time permanent position following completion of the apprenticeship.
We are weretain them as they become leaders keen to support this initiative again so will be taking on another cohort intheir field.
We focus on retention through our annual performance evaluation To achieve superior performance for our clients and shareholders and succession planning processes.
This annual review is a valuable weneed to have the right people in the right roles, fully motivated opportunity for managers to give individuals feedback on their and competitively paid.
We are very conscious of the need to provide performance and how their careers can progress with the Company, appropriate development for our highly talented and increasingly particularly during difficult times.
Our continuous succession planning international workforce.
Encouraging effective collaboration and process is designed to mitigate continuity risks by identifying key teamwork across the Company, within the bounds of regulation individuals for retention and further development.
We were pleased andgoodgovernance, is a key part of our strategy.
toseeminimal voluntary turnover of key individuals during 2014.
Talent During 2014, the acquisitions of both Numeric Investors and Pine Grove It remains vitally important to maintain a strong pipeline of talented Asset Management LLC resulted in the arrival of a new pool of talent at individuals for the future of the business.
To increase our talent pipeline the firm.
We welcomed 96 new members of staff in total with 80 joining we launched an investment management graduate programme and a from Numeric, and 16 from Pine Grove.
structured summer internship programme, both of which started in 2014.
Four high calibre graduates joined us in 2014 and another four twoof We also made a number of key hires throughout the year including whom were 2014 summer interns will start in 2015.
Each graduate Pierre-Henri Flamand who joined Man GLG in May as Senior Portfolio undertakes a two year programme, rotating through placements in AHL, Manager, focusing on a global catalyst-driven strategy across the capital FRM, GLG and Sales which will equip them with a broad knowledge of structure.
Rory Powe also joined Man GLG in September to take over the our products and overall business.
Following the success of the 2014 GLG Continental Europe Fund.
summer intern programme, we have hired another five interns who will spend ten weeks with us in the summer of 2015, working on key projects Headcount with a view to successful interns being offered a place on the following Headcount savings achieved during 2013 and 2014 mean that Group years graduate programme.
headcount including contractors and consultants has reduced from 1,876 in June 2011 to 1,078 at 31 December 2014.
The ratio of support function employees to front office is approximately one to one, which we believe tobe in line with industry best practice.
December December June People by function % 2014 2013 2011 Investment management 31 30 21 Sales and marketing 17 18 19 Product and Client operations andTechnology 33 33 39 Central management and support 19 19 21 Note: Job function based on Business Unit, not individual role.
Man Group treats those impacted by redundancy fairly and respectfully whilst protecting the Company from potential litigation.
We provide outplacement assistance to individuals who are made redundant which includes career advice, interview preparation and guidance on developing their networks to help them transition to a new role.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 27 Remuneration Our remuneration policies and practices are designed to enable us to remain competitive in the increasingly global markets in which we operate.
More information on how we set compensation packages is given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 44 to 64.
Equality and diversity Man Groups culture is based on mutual respect for others and discrimination by any individual on the grounds of age, disability, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or educational background is not acceptable.
We offer tangible support through our employee assistance programmes, which are designed to assist individuals with aspects of their lives outside the workplace which may affect their ability to perform.
Full and fair consideration is given by Man to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
Man Groups Global Inclusion Policy outlines our commitment to ensuring a diverse workforce and our opposition to discrimination of any form, including on the basis of disability.
The company ensures that disabled Achieving a better balance between male and female employees, persons are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
particularly at a senior level, is a challenge many financial services For those who become disabled during their employment, reasonable organisations face and is a key priority for Man Group.
We remain adjustments are made and ongoing support is provided as required to committed to promoting gender diversity at senior management enable the individual to continue working.
Executive Committee level, and we currently have two women in senior roles who sit on that committee as shown in the table overleaf.
Breakdown of staff by gender % Our recruitment policy has the objective of securing 50% female representation on long lists of candidates internal and external for senior Total 70% 30% workforce roles and we engage executive search firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice.
Senior 86% 14% managers Agency partners have been asked to read and acknowledge our GlobalInclusion Policy.
Board of 87% 13% Directors We also currently have several initiatives in place to support and n Male n Female encourage our female talent.
Man Group continues to develop Drive as an internal support network, with a programme of regular events to inform and support women within the firm, as well as providing networking opportunities both internally and externally.
Alongside this initiative, Man Group is also working to develop a mentoring programme aimed to help and retain female talent.
Man Group is committed to increasing female participation in its graduate programme, targeting relevant university courses and clubs within Mathematics, Economics and Physics that will help inform our targeted recruitment.
Furthermore, we have started to sponsor the European Girls Mathematical Olympiad as part of our effort to support and encourage female talent in the potential pipeline for financial services careers.
Man Group strongly believes in the benefits of a diverse and multicultural workforce and is confident that the current multifaceted approach will enable the firm to meet its diversity objectives in the nearterm.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 28 People and corporate responsibility continued Man Group Executive Committee Business principles In 2014, Man Group developed a set of Manny Roman CEO, Man Group Jonathan Eliot Chief Risk Officer business principles which were designed Luke Ellis President, Man Group to distil and define the firms key priorities, Mike Even President & CEO, Numeric focus and culture.
The principles are being Geoff Galbraith Global Head, Operations & Technology formally launched across the firm and will Robyn Grew Global Head, Compliance & Regulatory be displayed in Man Groups offices Keith Haydon CIO, FRM internationally to promote a common Rene Herren Deputy Head, Sales & Marketing understanding of the firms values: Teun Johnston Co-CEO, GLG Mark Jones Co-CEO, GLG Performance Clients Pierre Lagrange Chairman, Man Asia & Senior Managing Director, GLG First, foremost Our clients are atthe Michelle McCloskey Senior Managing Director, FRM andalways, we focus heart of everything Shanta Puchtler CIO, Numeric on delivering superior wedo.
risk adjusted Tim Rainsford Global Head, Sales & Marketing performance.
Sandy Rattray CEO, AHL & MSS Jasveer Singh General Counsel Jonathan Sorrell Chief Financial Officer Excellence Responsibility Simon White Global Head, Operations & Technology retired Good is not enough, We always do the right at 31 December 2014 we strive to be thing and conduct our Tim Wong Chairman, AHL & MSS excellent inallwe do.
business with the highest standards Development, Engagement and Support In order to maximise the potential of our employees, we work with all areas ofintegrity.
of the business to support training and development needs.
This covers a wide range of initiatives including technical courses, team development and individual executive coaching and will be enhanced in 2015.
In addition, we run a number of in-house educational events such as Business Education Differentiation Meritocracy sessions and ExCo hosted informal breakfast discussions.
We seek to be We succeed through differentiated and talent, commitment, Employees receive regular updates and presentations on Company original in our thinking.
diligence and results and major decisions which affect them through face to face meetings or, if necessary, via video link.
The Man intranet is used to teamwork.
provide supplementary updates from senior management on all aspects of our business and is a crucial part of the dissemination of knowledge and information.
At Man Group, we are committed to conducting our business in accordance Our Global Mobility Programme enables us to meet specific business with these principles, which we believe will enable us to bethe best we can be.
needs within given markets or business areas.
Assigning people overseas We strive to deliver outstanding results for our clients, whose interests always assists us in attracting, retaining and developing our people in order to come first and are the focus of our firm.
We aim for excellence and expect the meet our business goals and strengthen our geographic footprint.
This highest standard of quality of work from everyone across the firm.
We always creates a diverse talent pool with varied perspectives and enhanced do the right thing, conducting our business with the highest standards of sharing of our knowledge base.
We continue to invest in talent, technology and research to ensure we provide a differentiated offering, underpinned by Employee welfare is an important consideration and so during 2014 leading experience, expertise and innovation.
We provide an inclusive work we conducted a full review of our benefits offerings, resulting in an environment, where reward and progression are based solely on merit.
improved benefits package to be introduced in 2015.
Changes include an improvement to global paternity leave and access to a global employee discount service.
In the UK we were also able to introduce new benefits such as free health assessments, Cycle to Work schemes and a restaurant leisure discount card.
During 2014 we were also able to offer our UK-based employees increased levels of participation in the Man Group Sharesave Scheme.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 29 Corporate responsibility Our corporate responsibility strategy is topursue and evidence where possible the high standards of behaviour, both corporate and individual, which underpin our reputation and maintain the trust andloyalty of our key stakeholders.
Wefocus on five key areas of : World class governance and riskmanagement Contributing to our communities Man strives to deliver the highest standards of governance and risk Man Group is actively involved in charitable initiatives and volunteering management.
We have long recognised the importance of corporate opportunities local to the firms offices through its ManKind Programme.
governance practices that help to ensure effective oversight and strong Furthermore, we have a worldwide commitment to promoting literacy accountability.
With our scale, we are well-positioned to implement and in children, underscored through our sponsorship of the Man Booker manage these practices effectively across our platform, as we strive to Prize.
We are very conscious of the impact of our organisation on our deliver industry leading governance and risk management.
community and have taken steps to ensure we are contributing positively to those around us.
Responsibilities to our market place Man is committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct and actively supports collaboration of the alternative asset management industry in developing and committing to standards .
The Hedge Fund Standards were drawn up in 2007 to address key issues relating to the hedge fund industry and best practice, covering the areas of disclosure, valuation, risk management, fund governance and shareholder conduct.
Man is a founding signatory of the Hedge Fund Standards Board HFSB which was fully established in 2008 as a guardian to the Standards with the goal of creating a framework for promoting integrity, transparency and good governance in the industry.
Managing our people Protecting the environment Man aims to create an environment which enables our staff to reach Whilst our environmental impact is relatively limited, we strive to deliver theirfull potential.
We encourage our teams to work together to help clear and transparent reporting that makes sense of the measurable each other develop and succeed professionally and personally by elements within our control and respond to external risk and providing a workplace which is healthy, safe, and offers guarantees expectations.
We look to take all practicable and economic measures of fairness and equal opportunities.
As a responsible business, we to conserve and reduce energy consumption at our offices around the constantly review our procedures which support the development and world.
We monitor our impacts using Credit 360, a system that measures retention of talent including performance management programmes, relevant data and generates reports which provide practical guidance in flexible working policies, health and well being initiatives, and our identifying our impacts and managing their reduction.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
