Corporate responsibility and sustainability Th e Cable & Wireless way We are focused on operating our business ethically and responsibly so as to have a positive impact on our customers, colleagues, business partners, shareholders, government and community stakeholders and our environment.
CWCs eff orts in this regard were again recognised by FTSE lastyear, with us being named as a continuing member of the FTSE4Good Index for meeting globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Dr. Azmina Long a LIME St. Lucia customer LIME has always, always been there for me in business and also personally.
Upgrading to a new telecoms system has enabled my business to network our three offi ce locations and maintain communication between our colleagues.
Dr. Azmina Long, St Lucia Annual report 2013 14 31 Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Ethics in Business Promoting our People Supporting our Communities Each of our businesses plays an important At CWC, we place ethical behaviour at the We are committed to providing a working role in fostering the development and heart of our business activities and we are environment in which colleagues can realise enhancement of the communities we serve.
committed to operating fairly and with their full potential and contribute to the In each market we seek to sponsor and integrity in all our markets.
We believe that Companys success.
support activities that are consistent with corruption and bribery hurt economies, by The Group operates in many countries our values, relevant to our customers and deterring inward investment, and negatively with diverse employment practices.
Whilst employees, and of benefit to the wider impact our customers, by increasing respecting local circumstances, we follow the community.
principles of equal opportunity in recruitment, In Panama and the Caribbean last year our All of our employees are required to conduct development, remuneration and efforts focused on community-focused themselves in accordance with both our advancement.
Our employment policies also telecommunications initiatives, the Anti-Bribery Policy and our Code of comply with local requirements and meet promotion of educational opportunities Conduct.
Our Anti-Bribery Policy was relevant standards on employment, training and the development of the countries updated last year to ensure compliance and career development of disabled people.
with applicable US legislation, following the As at 31 March 2014, 1,926 of the Groups establishment of a regional office in the USA.
Last year our Panama business continued to employee base of 4,256 were female.
Our Code of Conduct promotes mutual trust roll out a new Health Information System At the senior management level, female and respect in our dealings with others: across the country by installing it into a representation was eight out of 39 taking accountability for our actions: acting number of multi-speciality medical clinics.
employees, whilst we have one female with integrity: and acting fairly in our The system improves patient care by director serving on our Board out of a total dealings with competitors and other replacing paper patient records with of seven directors.
We remain committed to stakeholders.
Where the Group operates in electronic ones that ensure faster and ensuring that regardless of their gender our conjunction with business partners, third more accurate diagnosis and treatment.
employees have equal access to opportunities parties or in joint venture arrangements for career advancement on the basis of merit.
In Jamaica we installed a new fixed line without management control, it aims to telecoms system into one of the countrys We support the Universal Declaration of promote the application of these policies.
largest hospitals, improving the speed of Human Rights and the International Labour Responsibility for compliance with the policy communication between departments.
Organisation Core Conventions, and we seek remains with the Board, and the Chief at all times to operate our businesses in Executives of our businesses are responsible We worked with Panamas Department of compliance with them.
Our Panama business for communicating, implementing and Education to organise the National Oratory is a continuing participant in the United monitoring it within their businesses.
We ask Contest, a public speaking competition for Nations Global Compact, a strategic all employees to sign up to the principles of high school students, and a National Essay policy initiative on human rights, labour, the policies and we also have specific policies Contest for younger students.
Our support environment and anti-corruption.
Our covering gifts and hospitality.
In the coming also helped the Olga Sinclair Foundation Caribbean business will in the coming year year we will be conducting refresher training break a Guinness World Record when apply for admission as a participant in the for our colleagues on the Policy and the Code.
5,084 children simultaneously painted Global Compact.
a mural commemorating 100 years of The business integrity risks are regularly the Panama Canal.
The health and safety of our colleagues assessed to ensure the appropriate remains of paramount importance to us.
mitigation procedures are in place and In St. Kitts and Nevis we worked alongside In the coming year we will be directing our internal audit team reviews the the Government to create an Education specific attention to reducing the health implementation and monitoring of the Network EDUNET that will deliver faster and safety risks associated with our network Anti-Bribery Policy within the business units broadband to eight of the islands public infrastructure and our fieldwork activities, as part of the annual internal audit plan.
schools and enable teachers from one school which present a higher degree of health and to lecture to students from another via In November 2013, CWC was invited to safety risk than other areas of our business.
In Jamaica we installed join Transparency Internationals Business interactive whiteboards into classrooms of Positive employee engagement remains Integrity Forum, a group of UK companies several schools and ensured teachers were a focus for CWC.
This year we are committed to ensuring their operations trained to use the new technology.
consolidating our employee engagement and and business dealings are corruption free.
performance reviews into one Group-wide Transparency International has member Our LIME Foundation planted 600 seedlings process directed at unifying the workforce representation in over 100 countries.
across 2.5 acres in Jamaicas Blue Mountains.
behind a common set of performance Members of the Business Integrity Forum The trees that grow there will help to repair objectives, including an employee Net must successfully complete a due diligence an area that has been badly deforested Promoter Score metric and helping each procedure which demonstrates that their as a result of farmers clearing land for employee maximise their contribution to approach to business is consistent with agricultural usage.
Transparency Internationals ethos and values.
32 Cable & Wireless Communications Environment Privacy and Security We remain committed to continuous Protecting our customer and employee improvement in our environmental data is of primary importance to us.
Our networks are the most working hard to build security measures and significant contributing factor to our protection into all of our business processes environmental impact, due to the amount and practices which involve the handling of of power required to operate and cool our personal and confidential information.
In the coming year, means raising awareness through training we will work in partnership with power our employees on data privacy and data efficiency experts to reduce consumption protection and working with our external of power in our business.
partners to ensure robust measures are in place.
In countries where we operate which We have assessed our carbon footprint to be do not yet have any legislative or regulatory 119,548 tonnes of CO e based on our Scope 2 regime to deal specifically with data 1,2 & 3 greenhouse gas GHG emissions, protection and data privacy, we seek to as compared with 171,398 tonnes of CO e 2 take a best practice approach in line the for the 2012 13 reporting period.
Our Panamas hospital system EC Directive 95 46 EC on protection of electricity consumption was 175 million aCable & Wireless Panama individuals with regard to the processing kilowatt hours this year and our fuel usage of personal data and on the free movement CWP customer was 39,366 megawatt hours MWh as of such data.
At the same time we monitor compared with 248 million kilowatt hours In Panama we have a shortage of medical existing and incoming legislation within the with fuel usage of 59,409 MWh in 2012 13. specialists outside of large cities and so jurisdictions where our businesses operate We continue to use videoconferencing and have a strategic alliance with CWP to and work with the local teams to adapt our other technologies to reduce travel, although extend the reach of health services using practices as appropriate.
Our global data business travel remains necessary to some telecoms technology.
We now have the privacy and electronic devices policies extent due to our geographical spread, and ability to provide services like radiology, reflect this approach and help drive travel emissions this year were 4,370 tonnes ultrasounds and MRI scans in 22 rural behaviour with regards to secure handling CO e as compared with 6,136 tonnes CO e locations, with digital outputs that can be of customer and employee data within our 2 2 last year.
These emissions represent shared using broadband.
CWP has even business units.
2.3 tonnes CO e per million US dollars been able to establish medical centres in 2 We are working to increase the scope of of revenue.
villages with no electricity, using solar our pre-contract assessments of external panels, satellite transmission or microwave The principal reason for the difference in partners coming into contact with our technology.
We have eff ectively created emission levels is that the Group has reduced employee and customer information.
These a virtual hospital across Panama where the number of sites under its operational assessments include checking our partners community healthcare has been greatly control, through disposal of non-core approach to data security and privacy improved.
In many cases we no longer businesses and outsourcing of some protection.
Additionally we seek to impose need to move the patient and, if we do, functions.
Additionally the Group has contractual obligations on our partners we have the data needed to provide conducted less air travel relative to the to maintain data security standards, with immediate and proper treatment previous reporting period.
particular emphasis on the protection for them.
of data being transferred between our The emissions we have reported on cover businesses and our partners.
Dr. Eric Chong, medical radiographer all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report for children and adults, Childrens Hospital, We recognise the growing importance and Panama City.
and Directors reports Regulations 2013. relevance to global organisations of cyber The method we have used to calculate GHG security and are bringing this issue into emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate sharper focus through presentations to the Accounting and Reporting Standard revised Board and through increasing the focus and edition, together with the latest emission responsibility of our general information factors from recognised public sources security team.
This year we are focused on including, but not limited to, Defra, the continuous improvement in testing resilience Strategic report International Energy Agency, the US Energy of local and Group-wide security solutions The Strategic report which is comprised Information Administration, the US in order to identify vulnerabilities and make of the Overview, Strategic review, and Environmental Protection Agency and the improvements where required.
the Business review, is set out on Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
pages 2 to 33 together with information incorporated by reference into each We continue to promote e-waste recycling review, has been approved by the in our businesses.
We also continued to raise Board and signed on its behalf by order awareness of environmental issues among of the Board.
our colleagues and the wider communities Belinda Bradberry we serve.
Company Secretary 20 May 2014 Annual report 2013 14 33 34 Cable & Wireless Communications
