A5.2 ENvIRONMENTAl POlICY The Group is engaged in mortgage and consumer finance and therefore its overall environmental impact is considered to be low.
The main environmental impacts of the Group are limited to universal environmental issues such as resource use, procurement in offices and business travel.
The Groups environmental commitment is included within the Health, Safety and Environmental policy that is approved by the Chief Executive and the Human Resources Director and which is publicly displayed in its buildings.
Data is collected by the Facilities team who monitor the consumption figures and report to the business up to Board level.
The Group is now working to comply with the Energy Savings and Opportunities Scheme ESOS.
This is a UK Government initiative, under an EU Directive requiring organisations to identify and reduce their energy consumption.
The Group is already in the data collection phase of the process to benchmark its current energy consumption to allow it to set achievable targets for reduction.
We soon hope to have appointed an external lead assessor to work with us in order to verify the evidence required to obtain confirmation of compliance from the Environment Agency.
The Group is also in the process of recruiting a Building Services Manager, whose first priority will be to assess energy usage across the Group and make recommendations for its reduction.
The Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the environment.
It operates a Green Charter to raise employees awareness of recycling and campaigns are run to reduce various forms of waste such as food, consumables or energy.
The Green Charter: ensures all buildings occupied by the Group are managed efficiently by its Facilities Team: encourages employees to conserve energy: promotes recycling by negotiating contracts and providing facilities to enable employees to re-cycle office waste and other used products: controls business travel and provides opportunities for employees to travel to work in various ways, such as providing cycle racks: ensures liaison with the local community: ensures that redundant IT equipment is disposed of within current directives regulations WEEE - Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, recycling 98% of such equipment: ensures that all fluorescent light tubes are disposed of in a safe manner, compliant with appropriate regulations: and arranges for paper waste products to be recycled securely by third parties.
The Green Charter is kept under continuous review by the Facilities team.
The Groups paper based stationery is all procured from FSC Forest Stewardship Council certified suppliers.
The Group operates a Cycle to Work scheme, enabling employees to obtain cycles at preferential rates for commuting purposes.
During the year a new washroom contract was put in place including the installation of smart monitors to the flushing system to reduce water consumption.
Light sensors are installed in buildings to detect the absence of movement and automatically turn lights off.
The Group has been involved in no prosecutions, accidents or similar non-compliances in respect of environmental matters.
Performance indicators The environmental key performance indicators for the Group, determined having regard to the Reporting Guidelines published by the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA in June 2013, are set out below.
The Group does not consider it has significant environmental impacts under the headings Resource Efficiency and Materials, Emissions to Land, Air and Water or Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services set out in the Guidelines, due to the nature of its business activities.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 32 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 32 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report This information is presented for the 12 months ended 30 September in each year and includes all entities included in the Groups financial statements.
Normalised data is based on total operating income of 197.9m 2013 restated : 177.6m.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions 2014 2013 Tonnes Tonnes CO CO 2 2 Scope 1 Direct emissions Combustion of fuel: Operation of gas heating boilers 654 638 Petrol and diesel used by company cars 200 202 Operation of facilities: Air conditioning systems 28 25 882 865 Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions Directly purchased electricity 2,046 1,792 Total scope 1 and 2 2,928 2,657 Normalised tonnes - scope 1 and 2 CO per m income 14.8 15.0 2 Scope 3 Other indirect emissions Fuel and energy related activities not included in scope 1 or 2 312 302 Water consumption 8 8 Waste generated in operations 16 18 Total scope 3 336 328 Total scopes 1, 2 and 3 3,264 2,985 Normalised tonnes scope 1,2 and 3 CO per m income 16.5 16.8 2 The increases in absolute GHG levels shown above relate principally to the increased levels of business activity in the year.
There have been no major increases within the capacity of the Groups occupied office space, as a result of which the normalised GHG levels have fallen.
A project is in progress to align the building management systems within the Groups premises, which should increase efficiency in the future.
The Group has also retained the services of external energy consultants, to further address issues of consumption and efficiency.
Vehicle fuel usage is based on expense claims and recorded mileage.
CO2 values above are calculated based on the DEFRA DECC guidelines published in May 2014.
CO2 values for the year ended 30 September 2013 have been restated for the revised conversion factors published by DEFRA DECC.
The amounts shown above for total scope 1 and scope 2 emissions are those required to be reported under the Companies Act Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Other scope 3 emissions not reported above are not considered to be significant.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 33 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 33 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report A5.2 Environmental policy continued Power usage The Group uses mains electricity and natural gas from the UK grid to provide heat, light and power to its office buildings.
The amount of power used in the year ended 30 September 2014 is shown below.
2014 2013 MWh MWh Electricity 3,592.8 3,474.2 Natural gas 3,536.9 3,467.8 7,129.7 6,942.0 Normalised MWh per m income 36.0 39.1 Gas and electricity usage is based on consumption recorded on purchase invoices.
water usage The Groups water usage is limited to the consumption of piped water in the UK.
No water is extracted directly.
Water usage in the year ended 3 3 3 30 September 2014 was 7,766m 2013: 7,720m, based on consumption recorded on purchase invoices, a normalised amount of 39.2m 3 per m income 2013: 43.5m per m income.
waste The Groups waste output consists of general office waste which includes a mixture of principally paper and cardboard with some wood, plastics and metal.
All of the Groups waste is either recycled or sent to landfill.
Amounts of waste generated in the year ended 30 September 2014 and the methods of disposal are shown below.
2014 2013 Tonnes Tonnes Recycled 87 88 Landfill 69 80 156 168 Normalised tonnes per m income 0.8 0.9 Waste generation data is based on volumes reported on disposal invoices.
The Group provides facilities in its offices for recycling paper, cardboard, newspapers, glass, plastics and aluminium and steel cans.
Batteries, printer and photocopier cartridges are collected and sent for recycling.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 34 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 34 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report A5.3 SOCIAl, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS The Groups activities are based wholly within the United Kingdom.
It operates within the legal and regulatory framework of the UK, acknowledging the importance of corporate responsibility and citizenship in its relationships with its customers, the wider community and other stakeholders.
Commitment to our customers The Group places the needs of customers at the heart of its day-to-day operations.
With a commitment from the Board, fairness to our customers is a key consideration and objective at all stages of the lifetime of a loan.
Our vision is to become the UKs most highly regarded specialist provider of finance for people.
Putting the interests of our customers at the heart of what we do is an integral part of achieving that objective and we want our customers to have confidence that we will always treat them fairly.
The Group therefore strives to ensure that: products and services are designed to meet our customers needs: customers are given clear, jargon free information: products perform as customers have been led to expect: customers do not face unreasonable post-sale barriers to change a product, switch provider, submit a claim or make a complaint: and high quality customer service is provided.
We believe our desire to achieve positive outcomes for our customers is an important commercial differentiator which has helped us build strong and positive relationships over many years.
An example of this approach is the way that new customers are welcomed to the Group following portfolio acquisitions made through our Idem Capital business.
A change of lender can be confusing for customers so we have robust processes aimed at supporting them at this time and throughout the life of their relationship with the Group.
This pro-active approach accords with the FCAs Principles for Business, particularly with regard to treating customers fairly and ensuring the way in which we communicate is clear, fair and not misleading.
We ensure that we know how well we are performing in respect of these requirements, regularly adjusting what we do to deliver better customer solutions.
The Board and the Executive are committed to maintaining and developing this culture across the Group.
Complaint handling We understand that we do not always get things right first time so all complaints from customers are taken very seriously.
We acknowledge each complaint promptly and then work with customers to understand their feedback, investigating fully and responding swiftly in a fair and open manner.
Where applicable, we provide Alternative Dispute Resolution information to customers to allow them to appeal to independent sources if they are not happy with our response.
These include the Financial Ombudsman, the FLA and the Credit Services Association.
We genuinely view every complaint as an opportunity to improve our business, an opportunity to identify where we are going wrong and, most importantly, an opportunity to put things right for our customers.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 35 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report A5.3 Social, community and human rights continued Charitable contributions The Group contributes to registered charities relating to financial services or serving the local communities in which it operates.
Contributions of 1,137,000 2013: 917,000 were made by the Group during the year to the work of the Foundation for Credit Counselling which operates StepChange Debt Charity.
The increase in contributions from the previous year reflects the numbers of customers in acquired loan portfolios already making use of the charitys services.
The Group has also contributed to charities throughout the year by way of single donations.
Other charitable contributions made in the year totalled 17,000 2013: 21,000.
The Groups main objective is to support childrens and local charities, although no charity request is overlooked.
During the last year the Group has helped many and varied charities and causes such as: Butterflies Childrens Charity, Chicks, Solihull Metropolitan Borough Girls Football Team, Silverdale JFC, Handicapped Childrens Action Group, The Jennifer Trust, Children with Cancer UK, Childrens Heart Foundation, Kids in Action, Wellchild, Rotary Club of St Alphege Youth Speaks, Brainwave, Multiple Sclerosis Society, Lewy Body Society, Motability, Special Needs Adventure Playground, 3H Fund, County Air Ambulance, St Theresa Roman Catholic School, Myton Hospice, Shirley Lions Club, Second Chance, Happy Days, Strongbones Childrens Charitable Trust, Vitalise, Rehab, Douglas Bader Foundation, Openwork Cycle Challenge, Macmillan, Disability Aid Trust, Cancer Research and Intouch.
The Group also supports Paragons Charity Committee, consisting of volunteer employees, which organises a variety of fundraising activities throughout the year.
In the calendar year 2013 15,047 was raised for Macmillan Cancer Support and RSPCA Birmingham, while in the first nine months of 2014 9,433 has been raised which will be shared between Wythall Animal Sanctuary and Libby Maes Little Angels.
All employees are given the opportunity to nominate a charity each year and a vote is carried out to select the charity or charities to benefit from the following years fundraising.
Taxation payments The Groups policy is to comply with all relevant tax laws and regulations and fulfil all of its obligations as a responsible tax payer.
It structures its activities based on their commercial substance and the requirements of its funding providers, rather than for tax purposes.
The Group is resident and operates only in the United Kingdom and its tax payments to the UK authorities include not only corporation tax but also substantial payroll taxes.
The amounts of the Groups payments to UK national and local tax authorities in the year, including PAYE and NI contributions deducted from employee wages and salaries were as follows: 2014 2013 m m Corporation tax 17.4 22.0 PAYE and National Insurance 17.9 16.1 VAT 0.3 0.4 Total national taxation 35.6 38.5 Business rates 1.1 1.2 36.7 39.7 The fall in corporation tax paid in the year relates principally to the size and timing of payments on account to HMRC.
Corporation tax payable at the year end had increased from 5.9m at 30 September 2013 to 11.9m at 30 September 2014 note 55.
The Group has an open and positive relationship with HMRC, meeting with their representatives on a regular basis, and is committed to full disclosure and transparency in all matters.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 36 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 36 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report Business practices The Group carries out its business fairly, honestly and openly.
It has an anti-bribery and corruption policy, approved by the Board and operated throughout the Group.
It will not make bribes, nor will it condone the offering of bribes on its behalf.
It will not accept bribes, nor will it agree to them being accepted on its behalf and will avoid doing business with those who do not accept its values and who may harm its reputation.
The Group has carried out the risk assessment required by the Bribery Act 2010 and concluded that it is not a company with a high risk of bribery.
The Group conducts all of its business within the UK and with very little outsourcing.
However the Group takes its responsibilities seriously and will not tolerate bribery on any scale and, as such, policies have been strengthened and new ones introduced where appropriate.
The Groups policies cover the conduct of its business, the Groups interaction with suppliers and contractors and the giving or receiving of gifts and corporate hospitality.
Before new suppliers are approved they must be assessed against the requirements of the anti-bribery and corruption policy.
All employees are required to read the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policy and sign to confirm their acknowledgement, understanding and acceptance of its requirements.
The anti-bribery culture forms part of the induction course for all new starters and the message is reinforced at any subsequent training sessions.
Any employee found to be in breach of these policies will be subject to disciplinary action.
No such disciplinary action has taken place in the year ended 30 September 2014.
The Group Director of Legal Services, in conjunction with the Head of Financial Crime Investigations, is responsible for ensuring the Bribery Act risk assessment and resulting policies and procedures are in place and reviewed on a regular basis.
They are also responsible for ensuring any changes in the law are noted and applied to the Groups policies and procedures, where appropriate.
The Head of Internal Audit is responsible for ensuring that the business heads have the appropriate controls in place to ensure all employees adhere to the anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures at all times.
The Group has not been involved in any prosecutions, fines, penalties or similar non-compliances in respect of bribery and corruption.
Human rights The Group operates exclusively in the UK and, as such, is subject to the European Convention on Human Rights and the UK Human Rights Act 1998.
The Group respects all human rights and in conducting its business the Group regards those rights relating to non-discrimination, fair treatment and respect for privacy to be the most relevant and to have the greatest potential impact on its key stakeholder groups of customers, employees and suppliers.
The Board and the Group Director of Legal Services have overall responsibility for ensuring the Group upholds and promotes respect for human rights.
The Group seeks to anticipate, prevent and mitigate any potential negative human rights impacts as well as enhance positive impacts through its policies and procedures and, in particular, through its policies regarding employment, equality and diversity, treating customers fairly and information security.
Group policies seek both to ensure that employees comply with the relevant legislation and regulations in place in the UK and to promote good practice.
The Groups policies are formulated and kept up to date by the relevant business area, authorised by the Board and communicated to all employees through the Human Resources Policies Manual.
The Group undertakes extensive monitoring of the implementation of all of its policies and has not been made aware of any incident in which the organisations activities have resulted in an abuse of human rights.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
