A5 Corporate responsibility The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, employees, customers and other stakeholders are best served by acting in a socially responsible manner.
As such, the Groups ethos is to ensure that a high standard of corporate governance and corporate responsibility is maintained in all areas of its business and operations.
A5.1 EMPlOYEES The welfare, development and engagement of the Groups employees are central to developing a strong culture, with employee capability and motivation acknowledged as being central to delivery of the Groups strategy.
Remuneration packages across the business are compliant with the UKs national minimum wage rates.
In addition, we are fully committed to the principles of the Living Wage, aiming to meet this standard by the end of the current financial year.
The Living Wage is an hourly rate set independently, updated annually and calculated according to the cost of living in the UK.
We see the Living Wage as an important part of our values and our people strategy and support the Living Wage Foundations principle of it being good for business, good for the individual and good for society.
Flexible working is actively encouraged across all areas, to promote a work-life balance for individuals and to ensure that the Group retains the skills and experience of its people.
The Group monitors working practices to ensure that it complies with the Working Time Regulations to ensure no one is forced to work more than a 48 hour week over an average 17 week period.
This includes the monitoring of any second jobs.
When responding to changes in its business, the Group always seeks to minimise the requirement for compulsory redundancy, retraining and redeploying employees wherever possible.
The Human Resources department actively works alongside the Groups management to recruit, develop and retain capable people.
Equality and diversity The Group is committed to providing a working environment in which employees feel valued and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a workforce that recognises the diversity of its customers.
Employees are requested to co-operate with the Groups efforts to ensure the policy is fully implemented.
The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to work in an environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying, and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or national origins gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status religious or political beliefs or affiliations disability, impairment or age real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS membership of a trade union and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or unfair conditions or requirements.
The Group aims to ensure that applications for employment from people with disabilities, and other under-represented groups, are given full and fair consideration and that all employees are given the same training, development and job opportunities.
Every effort is also made to retrain and support employees who suffer from disabilities during their employment, including the provision of flexible working to assist their re-entry into the workplace.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 29 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report A5.1 Employees continued Composition of the workforce During the year the workforce has grown by 13.4% to 991 people 2013: 874.
Information on the composition of the workforce at the year end is summarised below: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Females Males Females Males Employees Number 562 430 490 378 Percentage 56.7% 43.3% 56.5% 43.5% Management grade employees Number 72 99 65 88 Percentage 42.1% 57.9% 42.5% 57.5% Senior managers Number 4 15 3 13 Percentage 21.1% 78.9% 18.8% 81.2% Directors Number 1 7 1 8 Percentage 12.5% 87.5% 11.1% 88.9% Of these employees, ethnic minority employees comprised 13.2% of the workforce 2013: 12.4% and 4.7% of management grade employees 2013: 5.9%.
Employees on temporary or short term contracts accounted for 6.4% of the workforce 2013: 3.5%.
Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual basis and employee satisfaction with equality of opportunity is monitored as part of the regular employee feedback surveys.
Human Resources policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and development policies and practices are monitored to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to train and develop according to their abilities.
Training and development The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People scheme since 1997 and achieved Champion status in May 2014, which is given to organisations who are seen as pioneers in people management practices and role models in strategic leadership and is currently held by only 1% of companies in the UK.
This demonstrates the Groups commitment to the training and development of all its employees.
The appraisal system is designed to assist employees in developing their careers and to identify and provide appropriate training opportunities, with all employees receiving a review at least annually.
The appraisal system also provides a method to track individual progress and identify opportunities to develop them into further roles, thereby supporting the Groups overall succession planning objectives.
The corporate training and development strategy focuses on providing opportunities to develop all employees and is central to the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
On average employees received 13.7 days training in the year 2013: 8.7 days.
Employees involvement The directors recognise the benefit of keeping employees informed of the progress of the business.
The Group operates a People Forum, attended by elected employee representatives from each area of the business, which exists primarily to facilitate communication and dissemination of information throughout the Group and provides a means by which employees can be consulted on matters affecting them.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 30 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 30 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report Employees are provided with regular information on the performance and plans of the Group, and the financial and economic factors affecting it, through information circulars and presentations.
The Company operates a Sharesave share option scheme and a profit sharing scheme, both of which enable eligible employees to benefit from the performance of the business.
The directors encourage employee involvement at all levels through the appraisal process and communication between directors, managers, teams and individual employees.
Health and Safety policy It is the Groups policy to comply with the terms of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, and subsequent legislation, and to provide and maintain a healthy and safe working environment.
Health and safety objectives have been set to minimise the number of instances of occupational accidents and illnesses, while monitoring performance, providing training, raising employee awareness and ultimately achieving an accident-free workplace.
The Group recognises and accepts its duty to protect the health, safety and welfare of all visitors to its premises, including contractors and temporary workers, as well as any members of the public who might be affected by our operations.
While the management of the Group will do all within its power to ensure the health and safety of its employees, it is recognised by all employees that health and safety at work is the responsibility of each and every individual associated with the Group.
It is the duty of each employee to take reasonable care of their own and other peoples welfare and to report any situation which may pose a threat to the well-being of any other person.
Health and safety policies and procedures are managed by the Group Services Division which liaises with senior management and Human Resources as necessary.
All employees are provided with such equipment, information, training and supervision as is necessary to implement the policy in order to achieve the above stated objective.
The Group makes available such finances and resources deemed reasonable to mitigate any risks identified.
All injuries, however small, sustained by a person at work are reported internally with the appropriate level of investigation assigned, based on the incident.
Accident records are crucial to the effective monitoring and revision of the policy and must therefore be accurate and comprehensive.
The Group recognises the civil and moral need to ensure that all employees adhere to this health and safety policy and is prepared to invoke the disciplinary process in case of any deliberate disregard for health and safety policies and procedures.
The Groups health and safety policy is continually monitored and updated, particularly when changes in the scale or nature of our operations occur.
The policy is reviewed at least every twelve months.
Live issues and risks are recorded and monthly measures and metrics are issued to the Operational Risk Committee.
ISO18001 was obtained during 2013 and is audited every six months by an external consultant, to benchmark the Groups health and safety practices.
In addition, a health and safety co-ordinator is employed within Group Services to manage all health and safety matters, including policies, procedures, risk assessments and training records.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
