A3.3 Funding review continued Capital management The Group has continued to enjoy strong cash generation during the year.
Free cash balances were 177.3 million at the year-end 30 September 2013: 170.8 million note 39 after investments to support the launch of Paragon Bank, new buy-to-let originations and acquisitions by Idem Capital.
The Company sees opportunities going forward to deploy capital for new lending activities, which should continue to increase, and to invest further amounts in loan portfolios through Idem Capital as banks and other financial institutions continue to dispose of assets.
These cash balances, together with future operational cashflow, will support the Groups growth through investment in these areas.
In pursuance of its dividend policy, and in view of the strong position of the Group and its confidence in the prospects for the business, the Board proposes, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 12 February 2015, a final dividend of 6.0p per share which, when added to the interim dividend of 3.0p, gives a dividend of 9.0p per share for the year.
This represents an increase of 25.0% from 2013, bringing the dividend cover to 3.5 times 2013: 3.9 times.
The Groups dividend policy, established in 2012, is to target a cover ratio of 3.0 to 3.5 times by 2016.
Whilst the top end of this range has been reached as a result of this proposed final dividend, the Group will continue to target reductions in the cover ratio to the lower end of the target range by 2016.
The PRA supervision of the Group referred to above imposes capital adequacy rules upon it.
The Group maintains extremely strong capital and leverage ratios, with a CET1 ratio of 19.7% at 30 September 2014 and a leverage ratio at 8.3% note 6 leaving the Groups capital at 30 September 2014 comfortably in excess of the regulatory requirement.
The Board keeps under review the appropriate level of capital for the business to meet its operational requirements and strategic development objectives.
The strength of the Paragon Mortgages and Idem Capital businesses, the diversification which has been achieved in the funding base in recent years and the further opportunities for growth and sustainability provided by Paragon Bank, have now created the foundations on which to develop the Groups next phase of growth.
In view of the strong capital base and low leverage in the Companys balance sheet, the Board has determined that the Groups debt and equity capital resources should be rebalanced to deliver returns at a higher rate to shareholders.
The Group expects to access either the sterling senior unsecured debt market or the UK retail bond market during the coming year to add incremental long-dated debt to the Group balance sheet.
The Group will also commence a share buy-back programme which will take place over the coming year, initially up to 50.0 million, to be reviewed periodically to take account of anticipated investment opportunities and the balance of the Groups debt and equity capital resources.
The Company intends that the repurchased shares will be held in treasury.
The Company currently has the necessary shareholder approval to undertake such share buy-backs and will propose the appropriate renewal of the relevant authority at its 2015 Annual General Meeting, when a special resolution seeking authority for the Company to purchase up to 30.6 million of its own shares 10% of the issued share capital will be put to shareholders.
A3.4 MANAGEMENT AND PEOPlE Nick Keen, who had been Finance Director since 1995, retired from the Board on 31 May 2014.
Nick had been an outstanding member of the team over the years and we are pleased to have retained Nicks services as part-time chairman of the Idem Capital division.
Richard Woodman, previously Director of Corporate Development, was appointed as Finance Director with effect from 31 May 2014.
Richard, who is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, joined the Group in 1989 and has a wealth of experience within the Group, having held a number of senior strategic and financial roles, including line management responsibility for internal audit and serving as Director of Business Analysis and Planning, prior to being appointed to the Board in February 2012.
Richard worked closely with Nick over many years which ensured a smooth transfer of responsibility.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 26 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
