2 Strategic Report Section Strategic Review continued In the event of a termination of the investment Fee arrangements management agreement, the date the agreement is Management fee terminated will be deemed to be the end of the relevant The management fee is 1% based on Net Asset Value performance period and any performance fee payable plus borrowings, on a per share basis, payable quarterly shall be calculated as at that date.
Any investments in funds managed by Polar Capital are wholly excluded from the base management Management fees of 6,026,000 2013: 5,234,000 have fee calculation.
been paid for the year to 30 April 2014.
No performance fee has been earned for the year to 30 April 2014.
Performance fee Performance periods will coincide with the Companys Corporate Responsibility accounting periods.
Socially responsible investing and exercise Annual performance fee equal to 15% of the amount by of voting powers which the increase in the adjusted Net Asset Value per The Board has instructed the Investment Manager to share exceeds the total return on the Dow Jones World take into account the published corporate governance Technology Index total return, sterling adjusted with of the companies in which it invests.
withholding taxes removed multiplied by the time weighted average of the number of shares in issue The Company has also considered the Investment during that period, subject to a high water mark.
Managers Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting Policy.
The Voting Policy is for the Investment Manager to vote The Net Asset Value per share Adjusted NAV per at all general meetings of companies in favour of share is adjusted for the purposes of the performance resolutions proposed by the management where it fee calculation by adding back any accruals for unpaid believes that the proposals are in the interests of performance fees, any dividends paid or payable by shareholders.
However, in exceptional cases, where it reference to the performance period and the removal believes that a resolution could be detrimental to the of any benefit of share issuance or buy backs.
interests of shareholders or the financial performance High water mark the performance fee will only be of the Company, appropriate notification will be given payable if, and to the extent that, the Adjusted NAV and abstentions or a vote against will be lodged.
per share exceeds the highest of: the NAV per share on the last day of the previous During the period under review votes were cast at 119 performance period: different company meetings, in each case following the recommendation of the management of that company on the Adjusted NAV per share on the last day of a the casting of votes.
performance period in respect of which a performance fee was last paid: The Investment Manager reports to the Board, when requested, on the application of the Stewardship Code Any performance fee accrual will be included in the and Voting Policy.
The Investment Managers Stewardship Net Asset Value calculated in accordance with the Code and Voting Policy can be found on the Investment AIC guidelines.
Managers website in the Corporate Governance section The performance fee which can be paid by the www.
Company in any one performance period is capped at 2% of net assets.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 44 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 Environment The Companys core activities are undertaken by its Investment Manager which seeks to limit the use of non-renewable resources and reduce waste where possible.
Diversity, Gender Reporting and Human Rights Policy The Company has no employees and the Board comprised of one female and five male Non-executive Directors.
If any new appointments are made to the Board, the Board will continue to have regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender, when seeking to make any such appointments.
The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as it has no employees or operational control of its assets.
Approved by the Board on 17 July 2014 By order of the Board Neil Taylor FCIS Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 45
