Provident Financial plc 30 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Corporate responsibility Acting responsibly and with integrity Our CR strategy commits us to: Operate our core business of lending to our customers in a responsible and sustainable manner, putting their needs at the heart of everything we do.
Act responsibly and sustainably in all our other stakeholder relationships in order to: create a working A t the beginning of 2014, environment that is safe, inclusive and meritocratic: we felt it was time to treat our suppliers fairly: support our communities: review our corporate proactively engage with the investment community on responsibility strategy, sustainability matters: and minimise the environmental one of the elements of the impacts of our business.
groups overall business strategy, which has stood us in good stead and guided our approach to CR since 2007.
Following discussions with stakeholders from inside and outside the financial services industry, we created a CR strategy that supports our stated social purpose and recognises the need to address wider social, environmental and ethical challenges and opportunities.
Peter Crook Chief Executive Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 31 Acting responsibly and with integrity Key areas of focus CR governance As a specialist lender that offers an and management increasingly more diverse range of Overall responsibility for our CR products to the non-standard credit programme rests with Peter Crook, market, it is essential that we lend Provident Financials chief executive.
responsibly to our 2.4 million customers.
CR and community affairs are regularly This is our most important corporate considered by the Provident Financial plc responsibility and is something we have board.
A corporate affairs activity report been doing since 1880.
As such, we is presented at each board meeting.
understand the needs of those who are The groups executive committee, either excluded from the mainstream which includes the executive directors credit market, or whose needs are not and senior management, and is chaired well met by mainstream credit market by Peter Crook, reviews and approves products, and have unrivalled experience the CR programme and budget.
of providing products and services that Case study are tailored to meet these needs.
Ongoing management of the CR Engaging with stakeholders and programme is undertaken by Provident But this commitment to act responsibly reviewing Provident Financial Financials CR manager, community and sustainably extends well beyond CR strategy affairs manager and community affairs ensuring that we lend in a responsible executive, who are supported by a number In March 2014, Provident Financial convened manner.
It is also about ensuring that we of working groups which are made up a roundtable discussion with its peers on systematically manage the other social, of representatives drawn from our environmental and economic issues that CR in financial services.
The session was subsidiary businesses.
are material to our business activities.
facilitated by Corporate Citizenship and This encompasses how we treat attended by representatives from a range of employees, agents and suppliers, as well financial services companies.
The purpose of as supporting and investing in the many the roundtable was to discuss best practice, communities we serve, and minimising important challenges and key learnings for CR our impacts on the environment.
professionals in the financial services sector and use the findings to inform the next iteration of the CR element of the groups overall business strategy.
The results of the roundtable were used during 2014 to help review and revise Provident Financials CR strategy, and ensure that there is continual improvement Lending responsibly CR reporting in the overall performance of the groups We also publish a stand-alone, annual and sustainably CR programme.
CR report which sets out a full account of our social, environmental and economic to our customers performance.
Our 2014 CR report will For Provident Financial, responsible be published during the summer of 2015. lending is about developing and delivering Further information on our CR reports can products that meet the needs of our be found at www.
Our Vanquis Bank credit cards, home credit loans and Satsuma loans and Moneybarn car finance loans all share the same responsible lending characteristics: they are simple and transparent financial products delivered through a friendly and personal service, and they demonstrate high levels of understanding of customers who experience difficulties.
Provident Financial plc 32 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn The Vanquis Bank credit card has initial credit Our Provident home credit loans are for small Moneybarn offers secured car loans in a limits as low as 150, which are smaller than sums, are simple and transparent, and have their responsible manner through conditional sales those of mainstream credit cards.
This enables costs fixed at the outset, which means there contracts.
This means that the vehicle is owned the bank to observe and understand the are no additional charges or fees whatsoever.
by Moneybarn until the final instalment has been behaviour of customers before granting Repayments are collected on a weekly or monthly paid by the customer.
The primary source of any further lending, in a responsible and basis by a self-employed agent in the customers new customer leads is through a network of sustainable manner.
While credit scoring systems are used well-established brokers who earn commission in the lending process, agents are ultimately for each lead they provide which results in a The banks bespoke underwriting processes responsible for making the final decision as to loan being issued.
have been developed over the last twelve whether to lend.
They are also paid commission years.
We have a conservative approach to Moneybarns underwriting processes are primarily on what they collect, not what they lend, risk, reflected in our decline rates of around highly automated which allows for rapid which means they lend only what a customer 75%.
Our credit-granting scorecards are profiling and approval of customers, providing can afford to repay.
High levels of contact are based on our extensive experience of dealing us with a competitive advantage.
Its credit maintained with customers through the agent with non-standard credit market consumers.
science is based on a combination of external visits in their homes.
This enables customers to credit bureau data, company-specific We are also able to offer customers a range of raise any difficulties or queries they might have proprietary scorecards and policy rules.
extra features through our optional Repayment at an early stage and agree an appropriate course The underwriting process includes robust Option Plan.
This includes features such as of action to resolve them.
affordability assessments, including obtaining Account Freeze, Payment Holiday, Lifeline, Our Satsuma online instalment loan product proof of income, to ensure that lending takes Payment Reminders, and Over-limit Alerts, shares many of the responsible lending place only when it is responsible to do so.
to help our customers to get back on track.
characteristics of our home credit loans.
All of Collections are normally made through fixed the costs are fixed upfront and there are no monthly direct debit payments.
If a customer additional charges or fees, even if customers gets into financial difficulties during the term of circumstances change and payments are missed.
the loan, the customer services team will work Underwriting is based on the processes used closely with the customer to help them get 1.3m by Vanquis Bank and for home credit loans, and back on track.
This may include a temporary is supplemented with external credit bureau payment arrangement for short-term financial Vanquis Bank customers data, and behavioural and social information.
However, for those customers that Repayments are collected via Continuous demonstrably can no longer afford the ongoing Payment Authority CPA, based on a pre-agreed repayments, the most appropriate exit strategy amount on a pre-agreed date.
If a repayment is is often through the repossession and sale 84% missed, the customer is contacted immediately of their vehicle to settle their loan before the to discuss their situation: the CPA arrangement vehicle depreciates further.
This means that Vanquis Bank customer satisfaction is never abused.
the customer often gets a cash sum when the vehicle is sold.
Read more on Vanquis Bank Read more on Consumer Credit Read more on Moneybarn on pages 4047 Division on pages 4859 on pages 6067 Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 33 Playing a positive role in the communities we serve Creating a safe, inclusive The companys primary social benefit is a direct one, in making available financial 2014 community and meritocratic workplace products and services that meet the investment figures Our 3,555 employees enable us to continually particular needs of the people that are meet the needs of our 2.4 million customers.
not well served, or are excluded altogether, They are behind the development and delivery 1 Cash 2,103,946 by mainstream credit providers.
However, of our products, and are a key stakeholder.
we also recognise that we have a duty The success of our business relies on attracting to be a good corporate citizen and invest 2 Management costs 257,405 and retaining talented individuals.
We aim to in programmes that support the needs of provide a working environment that encourages non-standard credit market customers and employees to reach their potential, and trains those living in local communities.
As such, 3 Value of employee time 53,544 and develops them to meet their personal goals.
we have committed to investing a minimum Through this, we continue to respond to the needs of 1% of profit before tax as measured 3 2 of our customers, which means our business under the London Benchmarking Groups will flourish.
Total Through our people departments, we provide Indirect help for non-standard training and development to our employees and 2.4m credit market customers implement policies on issues such as diversity As part of our commitment to help non-standard and health and safety.
Our people departments credit market customers, we work with and are also integral in the implementation of our 1 provide financial support to a wide range of free CR strategy across our businesses.
and voluntary money advice organisations to help those who may have problems repaying Male Female their debts to us and others, and to increase Community involvement the quality and availability of free, independent Proportion of male female in numbers in 2014 company directors % 71 29 money advice in the UK.
We support Advice UK, Citizens Advice, Step Change Debt Charity, Proportion of male female employees in senior Institute of Money Advisers, Money Advice 31,517 management positions % 70 30 Liaison Group, Money Advice Scotland, Money people benefited directly from the support provided by projects we funded Advice Trust, and National Debtline.
We also Proportion of male female employees % 48 52 work with more specialised providers on a range of financial education initiatives and help 19,432 finance publicly-available, independent research people accessed new services and activities to help understand the financial behaviour of Treating our suppliers fairly those on modest incomes.
Part of our corporate responsibility involves 30,539 treating our suppliers fairly and using our people developed new skills as a result of their What our community project purchasing power to make sustainable involvement in the programmes procurement decisions.
In 2014, our annual partners say spend on products and services was W e feel we are truly 143.9 million 2013: 129.2 million.
This level of spend gives us the potential to encourage in partnership with and support our suppliers to become more sustainable.
They not We are committed to paying our suppliers only give us money, promptly as we recognise that late payment can cause serious cash flow problems, especially but they support and for small businesses.
Our businesses do not care in so many ways.
have standard payment terms for suppliers.
Brendan Conboy Rather, we have individually negotiated payment Chief Executive The Door terms with each of our suppliers, although the terms are typical of the wider market.
We endeavour to ensure that suppliers are paid in accordance with the agreed payment terms.
Provident Financial plc 34 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Playing a positive role in t he communities we serve Supporting local communities Responding to community needs Through the groups companies and brands, Through the Good Neighbour and Active Community programmes, as at the end of 2014 we had we support local community projects committed long-term support three years or more to 48 projects across the UK and Ireland.
which seek to help those living in deprived communities.
Our aim is to not only provide financial help but to get our staff involved in the projects too.
This helps motivate and develop our staff and leverages the financial support we give so that even more is achieved.
Our projects are spread throughout communities in the UK and Ireland, and in Kenya where we support a local education project.
The programmes invest in local community projects by providing cash support and creating opportunities for our staff to get involved.
Our cash support can be a one-off investment to a project or a longer-term investment for three years or more.
The projects we support on a longer-term basis are mapped out on the page opposite.
Case study Case study Yorkshire Dance Bradford Youth a Good Neighbour partner Development Partnership an Active Community partner 2.4m Our support is funding Rebuzz, a grassroots dance development project for boys in Our work with Bradford Youth Development invested in community programmes, money advice and social research Rotherham, South Yorkshire.
Through a series Partnership BYDP demonstrates perfectly our of outreach projects, in the first year, over aim of supporting grass-roots organisations and 400 boys have had the opportunity to work with creating opportunities for employees to develop I want to thank you for inspirational artists in the field of contemporary the charity and themselves through volunteering.
The project has been able to engage organising the amazing The first thing we did together was fund a role boys who would otherwise not get involved in which will help manage the business side of dance, developing new skills and increasing their group of volunteers the charity and work with us to build a mutually confidence and aspirations.
who took part in the The project has had some notable achievements We offered executive expertise to encourage the Osmani Fun Day.
Rebuzz was chosen to present management team to think more strategically work in the foyer at West Yorkshire Playhouse great to see the whole and be creative in how best to support the young as part of the Fresh Fringe.
The group was also people in Bradford.
selected by Youth Dance England to perform school benefiting.
We then went on to fund a local community event Maya Alexander There have already been many individual success to raise the profile of BYDP.
The Summer Blast, Corporate Volunteering Coordinator Kids Company stories, which are echoed in the positive feedback a pop up event set up in the centre of Bradford, from both school teachers and parents alike.
was a fun, interactive day for children and Some of the older boys are beginning to focus parents and provided publicity for BYDPs work.
on developing their leadership skills by running It also gave us a chance to offer skills-based lunchtime dance clubs for their younger peers volunteering with our communications team and taking up shadowing opportunities within who produced all of the materials for the event.
We also provided them with funding to join the Bradford Chamber of Commerce with the aim of securing further work experience opportunities for young people in the Bradford area not in employment, education or training.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 35 Local community projects and organisations with long-term funding Good Neighbour projects CCD 1 Aberlour, Elgin 2 Boomerang, Dundee 1 3 Scottish Youth Hostel Association, Stirling 4 Oasis at Wallacewell, Glasgow 5 The Royal Lyceum, Edinburgh 2 6 Venchie Children and Young Peoples Project, 3 Edinburgh 4 5 6 7 Made4U in ML2, Wishaw 7 8 Scholemoor Beacon, Bradford 9 Joshua Project, Bradford 33 10 Holmewood Executive, Bradford 16 17 34 8 17 41 11 9 Sedbergh Youth and Community Centre, 16 10 Bradford 42 15 11 35 12 Bradford and District Senior Power, Bradford 36 14 12 13 37 13 Participate Projects, Bradford 18 20 19 38 14 21 One in a Million, Bradford 39 23 40 22 15 Immanuel Project, Bradford 24 16 Bradford City Womens Football Club, Bradford 17 Bradford City Football Club Community Stand, 43 25 27 Bradford 26 29 48 28 30 47 44 18 Sycamore Project Zacs Bar, Bolton 46 45 19 Northfield Sports Association, Bootle 31 20 Yorkshire Dance, Rotherham 32 21 Harvey Girls, Burton on Trent 22 Sycamore Adventure, Dudley Active Community projects 23 Mowmacre Young Peoples Play and Vanquis Bank Development Association, Leicester 41 Bradford Youth Development Partnership, 24 Project for the Regeneration of Druids Heath, Bradford Birmingham 42 The Outward Bound Trust, Bradford 25 33 The Door, Stroud REACH Across, Londonderry 43 Kids Company, London 26 34 Riverfront Theatre, Newport Hostelling International Northern Ireland, Belfast 44 Byron Primary School, Gillingham 27 35 Youth Network MK CIC, Milton Keynes Early Focus Project, Dublin 45 New Road Primary School, Chatham 36 28 Solas Project, Dublin Battersea Arts Centre, London 46 Sure Start All Saints, Chatham 29 37 Ballymun Music Programme, Dublin Ahoy Centre, Deptford 47 Sure Start Lordswood, Chatham 30 38 Baggator, Bristol Laois Partnership, Portlaoise 48 Phoenix Junior Academy, Chatham 31 39 St Petrocks, Exeter An Oige, County Wicklow In addition, Vanquis also funds Hatua, 32 40 a local education project in Kenya Young People Cornwall, Truro OLL St Saviours Boxing Club, Limerick Provident Financial plc 36 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Engaging with the Minimising our investment community environmental impacts The environmental management system that has on sustainability matters been in operation across our business for over We continue to engage with the socially a decade allows us to manage systematically responsible investment SRI community through our impacts on the environment by: our participation in the main global sustainability Identifying and understanding the indices and by responding to SRI analysts environmental impacts of our activities enquiries.
This is one way we can demonstrate our commitment to running our business Defining environmental responsibilities for staff responsibly and sustainably.
For example, Measuring and monitoring our environmental during 2014: management performance and setting targets We continued to be a constituent of the Identifying opportunities to continually improve FTSE4Good Index series.
Following the our environmental management performance September 2014 review of the FTSE4Good Advisory Committee, Provident Financial Our head office in Bradford continues to achieved an overall environmental, social and be formally certified to the international governance ESG rating score of 99, just one environmental management standard ISO point away from the maximum possible score.
We were included within the Vigeo World 120 index the 120 most advanced sustainability Greenhouse gas GHG performing companies in the European, emission reporting North American and Asia Pacific regions, We are required to disclose the annual amount of the Vigeo Europe 120 index the 120 most GHG emissions from activities for which we are advanced sustainability performing European directly responsible, including combustion of fuel companies and the Vigeo United Kingdom or operation of any facility, and for which we are 20 index the 20 most advanced UK companies indirectly responsible, such as the electricity and based on their sustainability performance.
heat we purchase for our own use.
During 2014, For the ninth successive year, Provident these emissions accounted for 5,994 tonnes Financial maintained its inclusion in both of CO e. 2 the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index The scope 1 emissions reported relate to our DJSI World and Dow Jones Sustainability fleet of company cars and the gas used in our Europe Index DJSI Europe.
offices, and the scope 2 emissions are associated with the electricity we purchased during 2014.
We have also reported the associated GHG emissions for which we are indirectly responsible, but occur from sources we do not own or control, which are associated with our scope 1 and 2 emissions.
These are referred to as scope 3 emissions and relate to GHG emissions associated with the extraction, refining, distribution, storage, transport and retail of the fuel we use.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 37 Carbon offsetting GHG emissions 01 January Business travel GHG emissions to 31 December 2014 While we aspire to keep levels of business tonnes of CO e 2 travel to a minimum, it is an important part tonnes of CO e 2 of how our businesses operate.
That said, we 1 Air travel 296 recognise that the emissions that result from our 1 Direct scope 1 CO e emissions 1,797 2 business travel activities can be environmentally 2013: 208 2013: 2,487 damaging.
This is why we measure and monitor the business journeys our staff make by plane, 2 Rail travel 41 train and in cars, and also the fuel used in our 2 Indirect scope 2 CO e emissions 3,066 2 fleet of company cars, in order to calculate the 2013: 56 2013: 3,050 GHG emissions associated with the groups business travel activities.
We then offset these 3 Car travel own vehicles 1,618 3 A ssociated indirect scope 3 GHG emissions by investing in renewable CO e emissions 1,131 2 2013: 1,823 energy projects.
2013: 884 During 2014, our business-related journeys 4 Company car fuel use 1,529 accounted for 4,194 metric tonnes of CO e. 2 3 These emissions were offset through the 2013: 1,495 1 purchase of Gold Standard carbon credits in 5 Extracting, refining and transportation the Soma-Polat wind farm project in the Manisa of raw fuel associated with business travel 710 and Balikesir provinces of Turkey.
The project, 2013: 740 which consists of 119 wind turbines, is expected to generate 467,364 MWh of electricity per year, 2 resulting in a total reduction of almost 2 million 2 1 5 tonnes of carbon emissions during the first Our emissions are reported in accordance with the WRI seven years of the project.
The project also Total WBCSD Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol.
We use an provides a range of environmental and social operational control consolidation approach to account for benefits.
On top of the significant reduction of 4,194 our GHG emissions and use emission conversion factors 3 2013: 4,322 GHG emissions, by reducing the burning of from Defra DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
Our GHG emissions are calculated using fossil fuels the project will improve air quality in 4 energy use data accessed via meters and energy suppliers, the region.
It also employs full-time staff from and from records of fuel use.
The emissions associated local communities.
A further benefit is provided with Vanquis Banks pilot credit card operation in Poland by the project through the planting of 2,500 are excluded from the data disclosed above.
trees to compensate for the approximately 300 trees that were removed during the projects construction.
5,994 Total scope 1 and 2 and associated scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO e 2 2013: 6,421 tonnes 3.24 Scope 1 and 2 and associated scope 3 intensity ratio kg of CO e 1,000 of receivables 2 2013: 4.00 kg of CO e 1,000 of receivables 2 Strategic report Ja n e & Max Helping Jane pay for her best friends operation Last year I got the devastating news that my dog, Max, had been hit by a car.
After a tense wait in the vets surgery, the vet managed to save Max, but one of his back legs was in need of a serious operation.
There was no way I could pay for the operation all at once so I contacted Provident to see if I could borrow the money and pay it back weekly.
My agent Sheila was a godsend and talked me through the whole process.
I was able to save Max, safe in the knowledge that my repayments were manageable.
Provident Financial plc 40 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Vanquis Bank 1 Vanquis Bank Introduction Vanquis Bank is the leading provider of credit cards to people in the non-standard credit market.
We promote financial inclusion, bringing credit cards to people who are typically declined by mainstream Michael Lenora Managing Director credit card providers.
In doing so, we help Vanquis Bank people to establish or rebuild a credit history and enable those in the non-standard credit market to share in modern buying methods such as online shopping, that can only really be achieved with card-based products.
151.0m 1, 1 50 UK profit before tax UK employees Non-standard credit cards 1.1bn 1.3m UK year-end receivables UK customers 1503,500 Range of credit limits Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 41 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending 1 credit cards car finance Vanquis Bank Our strategy To deliver our strategy, we continue to focus on: Ensuring that our operations are efficient and Our strategy at Vanquis effective across all aspects of the customer Clear credit management objectives to ensure experience from identifying and welcoming Bank is to be the leading that we maintain a good quality receivables new customers, to ongoing customer service, portfolio with stable levels of impairment: non-standard credit collections processes and dealing fairly with Providing customers with a responsive, customers who get into difficulty: card provider in the high-quality service throughout their time with Developing our products and distribution Vanquis Bank, commencing with the unique UK, delivering positive channels relevant to the markets in which welcome call to all new customers: we operate: customer outcomes, Offering very straightforward and transparent Treating our customers fairly, managing sustainable growth and credit card products with no balance conduct risk and ensuring that we comply transfers, teaser introductory rates, reward fully with all applicable regulation: high shareholder returns.
schemes, cashback or other features typical of mainstream lenders: Developing our retail deposits programme: and Providing customers with the appropriate credit limit and no more, thereby maintaining relatively Maintaining a minimum risk-adjusted margin high levels of credit line utilisation to minimise revenue less impairment as a percentage the level of contingent liability: of average receivables of at least 30%.
For many customers, this is the first time they have used a credit card and so they are sometimes a little anxious about how it all works.
I like knowing I can make a difference to them, talking things through on the phone and making sure they are comfortable.
We make sure their credit limit is not too high and send them text reminders when payments are due to stop them being charged unnecessary interest.
Helen, Chatham call centre Provident Financial plc 42 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Vanquis Bank continued H Ho ow t w th he V e Va an nq qu uiis B s Ba an nk c k cr re ed diit c t ca ar rd w d wo or rk ks s Vanquis Bank operates a business model based on our common approach, What allows us to do what we do but adapted to closely suit the needs of consumers in the non-standard credit card market.
What we do for our customers The value this creates Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 43 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance H Ho ow t w th he V e Va an nq qu uiis B s Ba an nk c k cr re ed diit c t ca ar rd w d wo or rk ks s What allows us to do what we do Specialisation and focus on non-standard credit cards.
Over 10 years of direct experience in the UK non-standard credit card market since foundation.
650 contact centre staff in two UK locations.
Management team with depth of experience in non-standard Full deposit-taking PRA and FCA regulated bank.
Industry standard outsourced credit card systems.
What we do for our customers 3 1 Simple non-standard credit card products with no prime offer, Adopt a responsible and prudent low and grow approach no teaser rates, no balance transfers, no reward programmes to extending small amounts of credit starting from 150, and no cashback offers.
2 4 Close customer contact from the outset, with a welcome call Offer optional Repayment Option Plan ROP only after and multiple forms of immediate communication in the event a customer has their card to allow them to manage any of any issues arising.
short-term payment difficulties smoothly and painlessly.
Financial inclusion and rebuilding of credit history for over Stable risk-adjusted margins through the cycle.
The value 1.3 million credit card customers.
Strong growth from foundation in 2003 to over 1.3 million this creates Improving credit scores whilst providing access to small credit customers as competitors struggled with appropriate models lines over an average of four years with Vanquis Bank.
High levels of customer satisfaction.
Good, safe returns for depositors.
Provident Financial plc 44 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Vanquis Bank continued What is Vanquis Bank?
Why we are successful We have 12 years of experience in In many ways Vanquis Bank looks and Our success is built on our tailored approach, lending responsibly to our chosen operates like any other credit card provider: comprising a number of important strands which target market.
Our success is based together provide us with a significant competitive We are Visa-branded: on a clearly defined strategy and advantage in our marketplace.
our tailored approach to serving Our cards are accepted at over customers in the non-standard 1.
Our proposition 15 million locations: credit market.
The Vanquis Bank credit card looks and feels the Customers enjoy up to a 56-day interest same as any other credit card but importantly we free period on new purchases: ensure that our product is straightforward, easy We use the internet for applications and to understand and that there is no confusion or customer service: ambiguity in the eyes of customers.
Accordingly, our core products do not offer shortterm balance We accept standard payment methods and transfer offers, lower teaser or introductory rates issue customer statements: and which then turn into higher rates after a short We have contact centres to support period, rewards programmes which lock customers our customers.
in or cashback offers to incentivise spending.
Our customers spend at many of the major Our customers can also be reassured that merchants used by prime credit card providers, Vanquis Bank, as a retail deposit-taking bank, such as Tesco, Asda, Sainsburys, Argos, is fully regulated by both the Financial Conduct Amazon and PayPal.
However, our target Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulation customers have a very different profile to prime Authority PRA and has the support of a listed credit card users.
Whilst they are typically parent with a strong capital and liquidity position.
employed, their incomes of between 20,000 As a result, we have well established and robust and 35,000 are, on average, lower than a prime governance processes, including the oversight customer and most will have a credit profile by three independent non-executive directors, which means they have limited access to, and to ensure that the business is operated in an use of, other forms of borrowing compared with appropriate and responsible manner.
They are also much less likely Our product is designed to provide non-standard to be home owners, with some three quarters consumers with what they want a sensible living in rented accommodation.
amount of credit provided in a responsible and Our customers value a Vanquis Bank credit card sustainable way that helps them build or repair for a variety of reasons: their credit score.
It provides them with access to credit for the 2.
Innovating our channels to market first time if they have a thin credit history and We have always successfully used the internet no previous experience of taking out credit: and direct mail channels to recruit new They are seeking to rebuild their credit history customers, and these continue to be our major after problems in the past: source of new leads providing around 85% of new account bookings in 2014.
However, we continue They value the inherent utility of a credit card, to develop new distribution channels to ensure particularly accessing discounts and lower that we remain the leading player in the market.
prices on the internet: Towards the end of 2014, we commenced a pilot Our customers often have a lack of trust in of a credit card with another high street retailer.
high street banking, having been declined or This follows on from the successful launch of the experienced financial difficulty in the past Argos credit card in 2012 and we will continue with high street banks: and to seek other retail partners in the future.
We are They value our high personal contact model.
also successfully using a face-to-face channel, whereby a Vanquis Bank representative introduces We have 12 years of experience in lending potential customers to the Vanquis Bank credit responsibly to our chosen target market.
This is typically in high street or shopping Our success is based on a clearly defined strategy centre locations, where there is sufficient footfall and our tailored approach to serving customers of potential Vanquis Bank customers.
in the non-standard credit market.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 45 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance We supplement our core Vanquis Bank credit card market in this way.
This low and grow approach We employ highly trained collections teams and proposition with its 39.9% representative APR with has allowed the average customer balance to our telephone-based operations use leadinga number of other brands at varying price points progress to 846 2013: 780 whilst underlying edge technology and techniques.
This includes to increase our marketing reach.
Aquis, Chrome, credit quality has continued to improve.
the use of SMS texting to remind customers Black Diamond and Granite are all brand names that their payment is due and contacting a 4.
High customer contact which we currently use to attract new customers customer immediately via telephone if they miss with APRs ranging from 29.8% to 59.9%.
All of our processes are designed to The relationships with our customers are much, help customers stay on track so that they can much closer than those of mainstream lenders.
Our continued success in developing our channels continue to enjoy the use of their credit card as We genuinely value our customers and continue to market has resulted in us delivering record well as supporting the collections performance to develop new propositions to enhance levels new account bookings of 430,000 in 2014, up of the business.
Our success is demonstrated by of contact.
Customers excluded by mainstream from 411,000 in 2013, against unchanged credit our promise kept rate the number of payments card issuers appreciate the more regular contact standards.
In light of this, we have reassessed actually received from a promise given by a provided by Vanquis Bank, including the higher the medium-term potential size of the business, customer which is currently in excess of 75%, level of help and support provided from our increasing the customer target to between 1.5m which we believe is best in class.
contact centres in Chatham and Bradford.
and 1.8m customers with an average balance of approximately 1,000 from a previous target Our employees are trained to manage the High customer contact has helped us to maintain of between 1.3m and 1.5m customers with an accounts of customers who are identified some of the highest levels of customer satisfaction average balance of between 800 and 1,000. as vulnerable and support them accordingly.
in the industry with nine out of ten customers For those customers that get into financial saying they would recommend Vanquis Bank.
Underwriting capability difficulty, we have a range of payment plans to It is always our aim to treat customers fairly and meet their differing requirements, helping them to quickly resolve any complaints that arise.
This is Our bespoke underwriting processes have been get back on track.
In addition, we offer customers reflected in the metrics published by the Financial developed over the last 12 years.
We have a an ROP product which, for a monthly fee, allows Ombudsman Service FOS which show that of conservative approach to risk which is reflected in customers choosing to take ROP the ability to all complaints made to FOS, Vanquis Bank has a our decline rates of around 75%.
We have created freeze their account for up to two years if they multiple scorecards for each channel to market much better record than prime card issuers with a lose their job or experience certain other financial based on our extensive experience of dealing consistently high percentage resolved in its favour.
ROP also allows those customers to with non-standard consumers.
When a customer have one default fee per annum waived and is applies, we first combine their application data 5.
Collections processes very flexible as it can be cancelled at any time with external credit reference data and process Collections are clearly an extremely important with one months notice.
These features allow the information through our scorecards.
aspect of our business and we continue to customers to have greater peace of mind around develop new and innovative collection strategies.
We supplement the underwriting process with their financial circumstances.
a welcome call from one of our contact centre representatives.
This distinguishes Vanquis Bank from other card providers and provides us with I started my own business the opportunity to gather additional information which is useful to help manage the customers a couple of years ago, account as well as establish a more personal relationship.
It is an important element in verifying which has been going customer circumstances, including affordability, well for the most part.
and of completing the underwriting process.
My Vanquis Bank card Central to our proposition is our low and grow strategy.
Our typical initial credit lines start helps me to smooth out between 150 and 1,000 which allows us to observe and understand the behaviour of our the peaks and troughs in customers before granting any further lending in my personal expenditure, a responsible and sustainable manner.
This allows those customers with a good payment record who allowing me to concentrate can afford it to progressively improve their credit score and gain access to further credit during their on my business.
time as a Vanquis Bank customer.
Our maximum Paul, London customer credit limit is currently 3,500.
Vanquis Bank has developed an unparalleled expertise in lending to the non-standard credit Provident Financial plc 46 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Vanquis Bank continued Financial performance Our employees are trained to manage the accounts of customers Vanquis Bank generated a profit before tax of 140.4m in 2014 2013: 106.1m analysed as follows: who are identified as vulnerable Year ended 31 December and support them accordingly.
2014 2013 Change For those customers that get into m m % financial difficulty, we have a range Profit loss before tax: of payment plans to meet their UK 151.0 113.7 32.8 Poland 10.6 7.6 39.5 differing requirements, helping Total Vanquis Bank 140.4 106.1 32.3 them to get back on track.
2 Profit before interest after tax as a percentage of average receivables.
Vanquis Bank has performed strongly in 2014, to just under 1.1bn.
The growth in receivables The risk-adjusted margin has reduced by 1.0% reporting UK profit before tax 32.8% higher than benefited from the introduction of upgraded credit to 33.2% over the past 12 months, comprising 2013.
Further strong growth in the receivables line increase scorecards in March, following the a 3.1% reduction in the revenue yield and a book together with delinquency running at record decision to enhance the sourcing of credit bureau 2.1% reduction in the rate of impairment as lows have enabled the UK business to deliver a data.
Returns from the low and grow approach explained below.
consistent return on assets of 15.5% 2013: 15.5%.
to extending credit remain consistently strong and Although UK unemployment has shown a are underpinned by average credit line utilisation Demand for non-standard credit cards reduction over the last year, Vanquis Bank has, of between 70% and 75% which delivers a strong continues to be strong.
Despite some increase and will continue to, apply tight credit standards.
stream of revenue whilst maintaining a relatively in the marketing activity of competitors, The result is that the rate of delinquency has low level of contingent risk to the business from further investment in the customer acquisition fallen to a new all time low for the business undrawn credit lines.
programme has allowed the business to deliver and produced a 2.1% reduction in the rate of record new customer bookings of 430,000 Against unchanged credit standards, Vanquis impairment since the start of the year.
Over the 2013: 411,000, reflecting an acceptance rate of Banks marketing programmes are successfully same period, the improving quality of the book 25% 2013: 25% against unchanged underwriting delivering an increased flow of new customers has seen the revenue yield from interest and late standards.
As a result, customer numbers ended from its target audience.
This has resulted in and over limit fees reduce by a similar amount.
the year at nearly 1.3m, up 17.7% on the prior year.
a reassessment of the medium-term potential for the UK customer base from between 1.3m The growth in customer numbers, together with and 1.5m customers to between 1.5m and 1.8m the credit line increase programme to customers customers with an expected average customer who have established a sound payment history, balance of approximately 1,000. generated a 27.0% increase in year-end receivables Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 47 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance As previously reported, during the second half of Poland on delivering high shareholder returns and we 2013 Vanquis Bank changed the timing of the sale of The Polish pilot credit card operation has will not seek growth at the expense of diluting our its ROP product from the customer welcome call to vigorously tested the Polish market since returns or impacting our high levels of customer the activation call, which is approximately one week May 2012.
This has included deploying talent satisfaction.
Even though the UK recovery is well later, and also made a number of enhancements from the UK business, recruiting senior Polish underway, we will maintain the tight underwriting to the products features.
As expected, these two management with extensive local knowledge that has served us so well over recent years.
changes have resulted in a moderation in the of marketing and sales channels and testing Looking beyond 2015, we expect the demand for revenue yield earned by the business, and is the multiple revolving credit products and distribution.
non-standard credit cards in the UK to remain primary reason for the reduction of 1.0% in the However, we have recently concluded that the strong.
The strength of our new booking volumes risk-adjusted margin since December 2013. timeframe required to develop a business of and the continued development of our channels sufficient scale to achieve the groups target In February 2014, Visa reached an agreement to market, against unchanged credit standards, returns is too long and therefore not the best with the European Commission to reduce has meant that we have reassessed our use of the groups capital.
Accordingly, we have the interchange fees charged by credit card medium-term potential.
We have increased made the decision to withdraw from Poland and companies to retailers.
Lower cross-border rates our medium-term target to between 1.5 and undertake an orderly run-off the receivables book.
came into effect during 2014 and lower domestic 1.8 million customers, up from the previous target rates are likely to come into effect in the last Our conclusion to withdraw was based on a of between 1.3 and 1.5 million, with an average quarter of 2015.
Interchange revenue is a less number of factors.
Firstly, the main distribution balance of approximately 1,000.
However, we significant source of income for Vanquis Bank channel remains through high street brokers do not view these targets as the end game and than for more mainstream credit card providers.
rather than through online or direct marketing will seek to continually enhance the potential for The impact was not significant in 2014 but is which are better suited to attracting credit card the business through developing our channels expected to be 2m in 2015, increasing to a full customers.
As a result, the progress of the pilot to market and product proposition.
The rate of year impact of around 9m by 2016, based on in recruiting new customers has been slower progress towards our targets will be dictated current volumes, as the reduced fees on domestic than originally anticipated.
Secondly, the credit by future economic conditions, the potential transactions take effect.
reference data required to underwrite customers emergence of increased competition and is fragmented, of variable quality and relatively maintaining a minimum risk-adjusted margin Based on current delinquency trends, the expensive to collect.
changes made to the ROP product and the recent environment remains uncertain, particularly in changes to interchange fees, the risk-adjusted The future for Vanquis Bank remains very bright: relation to the capping of non-interest charges margin is expected to moderate to between 31% at a time when the cap on interest rates set at We have a core proposition which is tailorand 32% during 2015 and remain above the target four times the Lombard rate is just 12%.
made for the non-standard market, offering of 30% thereafter.
limited amounts of credit in a responsible, At the end of 2014, the Polish pilot operation Cost growth of 24.6% was well below receivables straightforward and sustainable way.
We allow had 59,000 customers 2013: 25,000 and growth as the business continues to benefit from those consumers who may find it difficult a receivables book of 15.5m 2013: 5.3m.
As previously reported, to obtain credit elsewhere the opportunity to The cost of the pilot during 2014 amounted to the business has relocated its central London participate in modern day life through the utility 10.6m 2013: 7.6m.
We do not anticipate any premises to 20 Fenchurch Street in order to offered by a credit card.
Helping customers material costs from withdrawing from the pilot accommodate future growth.
The lease on to repair or build their credit history is central operation during 2015 as the infrastructure the new property commenced in April and to our proposition: and leveraged significantly from the existing the business incurred additional property UK platform.
We are a profitable, growing, capital-generative costs of approximately 3m in 2014, of which business and we continue to see excellent approximately 2m was in respect of the new Looking ahead growth opportunities for the business in the head office property.
Vanquis Bank will continue to be a major 2014 has been another excellent year for Interest costs of 39.7m 2013: 34.5m increased contributor to the future growth of the groups Vanquis Bank with further strong growth in UK by 15.1% during 2014, compared with growth in dividends and the overall returns provided customers, receivables and profits.
Our customer average receivables of 30.9%.
This reflects the to shareholders.
satisfaction remains high at 84% and we also reduction in Vanquis Banks blended funding completed the move to new London headquarters rate, after taking account of the cost of holding at 20 Fenchurch Street during the year which will a liquid assets buffer, from 6.4% in 2013 to continue to provide the capacity for future growth.
5.6% in 2014, due to the progressive benefit We expect 2015 to be a further year of strong from taking retail deposits.
We will continue to invest in developing rates remain unchanged, Vanquis Banks overall our channels to market and growing the customer funding rate is expected to reduce further in 2015 base and receivables in a sustainable and as the proportion of funding provided by retail responsible manner.
However, we remain focused deposits increases.
Provident Financial plc 48 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Consumer Credit Division 2 Consumer Credit Division Introduction The Consumer Credit Division CCD specialises in the provision of relatively small loans to people in the non-standard credit market.
Provident, our home-collected credit business, which stretches back to the companys foundation in 1880, satisfies the demand of those who prefer a face-to-face service.
Satsuma, our online weekly-instalment loans business, brings the benefit of small loans Mark Stevens Managing Director to those who prefer to handle their loans online Consumer Credit Division but who still sometimes want personal contact.
103.9m 2,230 1 Profit before tax Employees Home credit 0.6bn 1.1m Year-end receivables Customers 1002,500 Loan range Online lending 1.
Stated prior to exceptional costs.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 49 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending 2 credit cards car finance Consumer Credit Division Our strategy 1 3 Update our home credit business Continued product development In the second half of and drive for returns We will continue to seek out and pilot new 2013, in the face of opportunities to serve non-standard consumers Our aim is to cement our market leadership in with other products and services by deploying the home credit segment of the non-standard difficult market conditions our considerable expertise and customer-centric market by: and given the evolution business model.
Our guarantor loans pilot Creating a smaller but leaner, better-quality, commenced in 2014. of the non-standard more modern business focused on returns: and market, we developed Investing in people and technology to enable a new strategy to better customer service, standardisation of 4 best practice, better collections performance, reposition CCD over market-leading compliance standards and Delivering positive customer a two-year period.
outcomes The strategy involves the Our strategy is underpinned by: evolution to a broader lending Lending responsibly and providing our business, not just a home credit customers with the right products and 2 provider.
Our new strategy has services in order to maintain our high levels of customer satisfaction: and four elements: Success in online loans with Satsuma Using all available information and technology to maintain high levels of compliance with We aim to achieve a top-three market position applicable laws and regulations.
within the medium term in the growing online segment of the non-standard loans market by: Applying our proven customer-centric approach: Using the best capabilities of CCD and Vanquis Bank to get the model right: Benefitting from payday market dislocation and clear, tighter regulations: whilst Achieving returns as good as home credit.
Provident Financial plc 50 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Consumer Credit Division continued How the Consumer Credit Division works CCD operates a business model based on our common approach, but adapted What allows us to do what we do to closely suit the needs of non-standard consumers in the home credit and online instalment markets.
What we do for our customers The value this creates Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 51 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance How the Consumer Credit Division works What allows us to do what we do 130 years of experience with home credit.
Long experience with non-standard customer needs as they move on from home credit.
Understanding of the fundamentals of lending that work for The vast majority of 7,700 self-employed agents using customers from home credit experience small manageable smartphones to conduct their round.
payments, no penalties and transparent pricing.
Over 1 million visits per week to over 3% of UK households.
Prices that are below the high-cost short-term credit HCSTC price cap from the outset.
2,230 staff in 300 branches using technology effectively.
What we do for our customers 3 3 1 1 Simple cash-based loans Skill and judgement Simple online loans with Sophisticated credit scoring that come to the customer of agent increasingly manageable payments and and affordability systems with nothing extra to pay, bolstered by sophisticated nothing extra to pay, ever, using a range of data ever, no matter what affordability assessment no matter what happens.
sources to aid a responsible happens.
and sustainable low and 2 Close contact from the grow approach to lending.
2 4 Weekly home visit from Weekly personal outset with a representative 4 self-employed, largely assessment of all customer on the phone whenever a No fees, charges or added female, agents who collect situations and forbearance customer needs to talk to interest whatsoever, along and lend.
where necessary at no somebody.
with forbearance when extra cost to the customer needed and a personal whatsoever.
Financial inclusion and in-built discipline and control for over Better outcomes for customers, helping them to manage their The value 1 million customers.
this creates Help for customers coping with cost of living pressures while Lending that is far better suited to non-standard customer needs wages remain subdued.
than typical online and payday lending.
Improving quality of book as customer numbers fall.
For customers for whom the home credit market is not suitable, a responsible and sustainable alternative to typical payday and Stable returns in a mature market.
payday-style lending and lender practices.
Strong growth opportunity in a market with large demand, poorly served by mainstream lenders and increasingly constrained payday lenders.
Provident Financial plc 52 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Consumer Credit Division continued Provident Whilst we have rebranded our home credit Why home credit works We are the largest home credit business we have not changed the essence of Our home credit business is the groups business in the UK and Ireland.
our product or the way we serve our customers.
longest-running business, stretching back to the Every week, 7,700 local agents The home credit service fits the needs of companys foundation in 1880.
It is a business customers like a glove: visit the majority of our 1.1 million that has stood the test of time, serving customers customers, to issue loans and 1.
The products are simple and transparent with through thick and thin, including two world wars collect repayments.
Even after all costs included up front and no additional and numerous economic cycles.
For those 130 years, the business continues We are the largest home credit business in the managing on a tight budget, its important to to fill a vital need for customers, UK and Ireland.
Every week, 7,700 local agents know that the amount to be repaid is fixed providing access to credit for visit the majority of our 1.1 million customers, to at the start and will never go up.
issue loans and collect repayments.
Even after those who might otherwise be 130 years, the business continues to fill a vital 2.
The affordable weekly repayments suit those financially excluded and helping need for customers, providing access to credit managing on tight weekly budgets and the when others dont.
for those who might otherwise be financially agents regular visit is not only convenient excluded and helping when others dont.
for the customer but also acts as a useful reminder to put the money aside for In 2014, we merged our Greenwood Personal the repayment.
Credit business into our Provident Personal Credit 3.
Forbearance is core to our product offering business.
At the same time, we took the opportunity so that when customers get into difficulty they to rebrand our home credit operations under one know theyll get a sympathetic response which brand Provident and to support the rebrand could mean either making a reduced payment with TV advertising.
We also ensured that our or missing a weekly payment altogether, new logo includes reference to our business being depending on the circumstances.
established in 1880 which customers find very reassuring, particularly at a time when many 4.
The Provident service is face-to-face, with alternative lenders have rapidly come and gone.
loans being delivered to customers homes We aim to promote the Provident brand more by self-employed agents who then usually call during 2015 to ensure that non-standard every week, or in some cases every month, consumers looking for small loans recognise to collect repayments.
Agents often live in the the benefits of borrowing from Provident.
same communities as their customers and understand their needs, developing an intimate knowledge of their circumstances through the weekly visit.
Whilst central underwriting is also used, agents make the final lending decision as they can assess customer capacity and character in the home.
Importantly, agents are paid commission primarily on what they collect, not what they lend, so they have no reason to lend more than their customers can afford to repay.
Providents service is one that customers trust and positively want to use, which helps to explain why our customer satisfaction rates are consistently high.
93% of customers say they are satisfied with the Provident home credit service, and the vast majority say they would recommend Provident to family or friends.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 53 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance Provident Ive been a Provident agent for years and so Ive seen all the fads come and go.
What has never changed is what customers value no charges for late payments, small amounts repaid weekly and simple, transparent products.
Sue, Bradford A pilot of a lending app to support electronic Progress against our strategy 2.
Technology & apps loans documentation commenced in May and The transition of the home credit business to a The programme of work to develop our has now been extended to over 35% of agents.
leaner, better-quality, modern business managed technology through the use of smartphone The app eliminates paper, saving a significant for returns involved the identification of five key and tablet apps to standardise best practice, amount of agent and back office time, and allows areas for change.
We identified that if we could access significant efficiency gains across the the business to better enforce and evidence successfully implement these changes then field operation and implement market-leading compliance.
We anticipate 100% use of the 2013 would be the baseline year for profits.
compliance as regulation migrates to the Financial lending app by the end of 2015.
2014 would be a year of further change before Conduct Authority FCA is running well ahead In April, tablet devices were rolled out to field we completed the transformation programme of plan.
managers and have received very positive during 2015.
This would then allow us to have a In February, the Android version of the collections feedback.
These devices effectively provide solid foundation to develop the business in 2016 app was released to supplement the iOS version managers with a mobile office and are starting and beyond.
which was rolled out from September last to free up time, currently spent on office-based It is very pleasing that the home credit business year.
Over 95% of agents are now using their administration, for supporting and motivating has made excellent progress during 2014 against smartphones to conduct their round, up from agents as well as assisting with arrears cases.
each of these areas: around 30% at the start of the year, and much higher than the 80% target we set ourselves at 1.
One Best Way the start of the year.
We plan to have all of our agents using the collections app by the end of Historically, there have been differing working the first quarter in 2015.
As well as standardising practices spanning the 300 branches across best practice, we estimate that the collections the UK and Ireland.
The absence of sharing best app saves approximately two to three hours practice resulted in significant variations in branch of agent time a week, allowing them to spend and manager performance.
Whilst there is still more time with customers, as well as improving progress to be made, we have made great strides collections performance, arrears management during 2014 in standardising our ways of working, and evidencing high levels of compliance.
particularly in arrears management, which has been assisted by the deployment of technology and investing in developing our best people, all of which is described further below.
Provident Financial plc 54 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Consumer Credit Division continued As a result of these decisive measures, the 3.
Collections focus Over 95% of agents are now using business experienced a marked improvement Historically, the business has delivered stable their smartphones to conduct in the quality of the receivables book in 2014 credit quality with the ratio of revenue to their round, up from around 30% with the ratio of impairment to revenue reducing impairment remaining in a tight range of between significantly from 38.7% in 2013 to 30.0% in 2014. at the start of the year, and much 32% and 34%.
However, in 2013 the ratio We anticipate further improvements in credit higher than the 80% target we set increased beyond this range due to a deterioration quality in the future as the standardised arrears ourselves at the start of the year.
in the arrears profile during the first nine months processes become further embedded throughout of the year.
As a result, underwriting standards the field organisation.
for new customers were materially tightened in The implementation of tighter credit standards September 2013 and the business commenced has resulted in a material contraction in the the process of standardising arrears and receivables book.
In 2013, receivables reduced collections processes, including a focus on early by 14.9% and have reduced by a further 20.5% intervention and the better integration of field and in 2014, resulting in an overall 32.4% reduction central collections activities.
This compares with our initial estimate of a 25% reduction over the two-year period.
We are creating a smaller but leaner, better-quality, modern, more profitable home credit business focused on returns.
Update home credit and deliver better returns 1.
Much lower Way and apps focus costs 5.
Performance through people Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 55 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance Everyone knows kids dont come cheap and there always seems to be something extra to pay for!
Ive used Provident to buy school uniforms and last year we were able to get the boys new beds.
It might not sound like much, but it has made a big difference to our family.
Emma, Leeds The reduction in field administration employees 4.
Performance through people in June 2014 was made possible by the To ensure that profit levels in the business were The profitability of an agency increases markedly programme to deploy technology throughout the at least maintained following the contraction in the as the agent gets more experience.
As a result, field operation running well ahead of schedule.
receivables book, it was not only necessary for we have significantly changed the way we the quality of receivables to improve but the cost The headcount reductions, together with other attract, induct and support agents to drive higher base needed to be reduced to reflect the lower savings and volume reductions, have reduced retention and reduce agent turnover.
We have volume of business.
the CCD cost base by over 28m during 2014. also been combining agent rounds to remove This has allowed the business to invest in less profitable agencies, which are a key driver Whilst job losses are always regrettable, during developing Satsuma and the regulatory agenda of agent turnover as the agents commission is 2013 and 2014 we have implemented three whilst delivering stable profits.
often insufficient for their needs.
These changes phases of cost reduction: have resulted in a significant improvement in Phase 1 180 field managers left the business agent turnover and a halving in the number of in June 2013. vacant agencies.
Phase 2 340 field and head office employees We have introduced a new development agenda left in December 2013. throughout the business to recruit, retain and develop better leaders in our management Phase 3 225 field administration employees team.
Formal leadership training for managers left in June 2014. throughout the business is now well established and has been extremely well received.
This will continue to pay dividends in the future.
Provident Financial plc 56 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Consumer Credit Division continued Satsuma We will use our competitive advantage to achieve We believe that Satsuma is a a top-three market position within two to four years.
business capable of delivering returns comparable to the Provident home credit business and, very importantly, delivering good Win in customer outcomes.
We believe online that a Satsuma loan is the best lending customer proposition in the market, closely aligned with home credit.
Best in class marketing proposition underwriting collections reach Data-led continuous improvement Satsuma, our online direct repayment loans Market opportunity product, was launched in November 2013 as The online loans market is estimated to be at least part of the repositioning of the CCD business to a four times the size of the home credit market broader-based lending business.
Since its launch, and is growing as customer preferences change.
we have been focusing on building our capability With the backdrop of clearer, tighter regulation in order to develop a sustainable business with around payday lending from 1 July 2014, a strong market position capable of delivering the there has been a shift in demand from payday groups target returns.
loans to instalment loans as the restrictions on We believe that Satsuma is a business capable the use of rollovers and continuous payment of delivering returns comparable to the Provident authorities by payday lenders has taken effect.
home credit business and, very importantly, We have already seen a number of smaller delivering good customer outcomes.
We believe payday loan companies exiting the market and that a Satsuma loan is the best customer proposition larger operators are reconfiguring their business in the market, closely aligned with home credit, models.
We expect that the introduction of a rate and we are supporting it with a front-of-mind cap on high-cost short-term credit providers from marketing proposition.
Our underwriting and 2 January 2015 will lead to a further shift towards collections capability have been developed instalment loans.
significantly over the last 12 months and we believe that they provide us with a competitive Target customer advantage in the fast-growing non-standard online Satsuma addresses those applicants of sufficient loans market.
Our experience through 2014 has credit quality whose preference is to access shown us that the demand for online instalment small-sum credit online and make weekly or loan products is strong and we are very excited monthly repayments direct from their bank about the excellent opportunity for Satsuma in account without the need for an agent visit.
specifically aimed at the significant audience of At 31 December 2014, Satsuma had 21,000 non-standard consumers in the segment of the customers 2013: 9,000 and a receivables book market between Vanquis Bank and our Provident of 5.0m 2013: 1.8m.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 57 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance Satsuma We will use our competitive advantage in the Throughout 2014, we have trialled the adverts 4.
Collections following areas to achieve a top-three market on numerous different TV stations and at different During 2014, we successfully embedded our position within two to four years: times of day to fine-tune our advertising strategy collections processes into the excellent collections and improve response rates.
We have also capabilities of Vanquis Bank.
Proposition supplemented this with radio advertising on a representatives in Chatham are now engaged at regional basis.
We have been very pleased with The product proposition of Satsuma is based an early stage to optimise collections performance how the Satsuma brand name has developed closely on the proven home credit customerand work closely with our customers.
This will with non-standard consumers and we have centric proposition.
There are no extra charges include using all aspects of their technology to now changed the focus of our TV advertising whatsoever, even if payments are missed.
contact customers either through the use of their to promote the core features of the Satsuma Customers can have contact with a telephone contact centre and SMS capabilities, trace activity product and service rather than on brand name representative and there are a number of for customers where no contact can be made awareness-building.
Our third TV advert was forbearance procedures in place for those and, very importantly, utilising their extensive launched in January 2015. who get into financial difficulty.
We believe that range of forbearance measures for those Satsuma meets customer needs better than customers whose circumstances have changed.
Underwriting payday lending and other instalment loan Just like all of the groups businesses, working products currently in the market.
Our initial underwriting combined the unique closely with our customers to ensure the best proprietary knowledge of issuing weekly We initially launched the product with a maximum possible outcome is a fundamental part of our loans in the home credit business and permitted loan amount of 300 for new business and one which distinguishes us from remote non-standard credit in Vanquis Bank.
customers and 800 for existing customers.
the majority of other lenders in this market.
We supplemented this with external bureau However, as we have developed our underwriting We are very pleased with the progress made data and have refined our scorecards for and collections capability, we have recently during 2014. different sources as the business has developed.
increased these amounts to 1,000 for new In October, we implemented enhanced When we launched Satsuma we expected default customers and 2,000 for existing customers, affordability assessments as required by the rates to be higher than home credit, reflecting subject to individual affordability checks.
These require lenders to verify customers the benefit of the agent relationship within the We aim to further develop our product proposition incomes and consider outgoings as part of the home credit business model, despite the credit in 2015.
In particular, we will shortly be overall credit process.
In November, we launched standing of a home credit customer being lower.
introducing a monthly product in addition to our a new decision engine and scorecard which However, as a result of our significant investment current weekly product, to reflect that a number will allow us to include behavioural and social and development of our underwriting and of our customers are paid monthly and would data in our credit decisioning going forward.
collections capability during 2014, our default therefore prefer to pay via a monthly instalment The business has already experienced an rates are currently running marginally ahead rather than a weekly one.
improvement in conversion rates which has, in of our original forecast.
turn, allowed a step-up in marketing.
Marketing weekly new business volumes increased by 50% in December.
Consistent with both our Provident We have positioned Satsuma with a broad home credit business and Vanquis Bank, we are marketing reach.
Our main focus is the adopting a prudent low and grow approach to open market but we are also targeting those issuing further credit.
consumers who do not want the home credit agent service, paid-up former customers of Our conversion rate of applications has been home credit and also those customers declined steadily improving throughout the year and, by Vanquis Bank who are not suitable for openfollowing the implementation of the new ended revolving credit.
In addition, customers scorecard in November, our current conversion applying for a Satsuma loan who do not meet the rate has increased materially.
We expect the higher underwriting criteria or cannot be remotely conversion rate to improve further and this verified, are referred to home credit.
will be an important driver in determining the potential size of the Satsuma business.
We are supporting the open market proposition with memorable front-of-mind branding and Just like other Provident Financial businesses, we significant marketing spend.
This includes a maintain close, ongoing personal contact with our distinctive, customer-focused website which customers through our telephone representatives has a fresh look and feel and TV advertising.
which gives us a unique customer insight and Our TV advertising to date has been based on provides our customers with peace of mind, the singing Satsuma with two different adverts knowing that they always have someone they focused primarily on building the brand name.
Provident Financial plc 58 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Consumer Credit Division continued Guarantor loans glo CCD Financial performance In May 2014, as part of our continuing strategy to CCD generated a profit before tax and exceptional costs of 103.9m in 2014 2013: 102.5m develop CCD into a broader lending business, we as set out below: launched a pilot into the guarantor loans market to test whether a product could be established Year ended 31 December which is capable of delivering the groups target 2014 2013 Change returns.
The guarantor loans market is currently m m % dominated by one large provider but it is a Customer numbers '000 1,071 1,511 29.1 market that has seen considerable growth over Year-end receivables 588.1 740.0 20.5 recent years.
Average receivables 598.5 725.8 17.5 The guarantor loans proposition is additional and Revenue 591.1 697.1 15.2 complementary to home credit and Satsuma, Impairment 177.5 269.7 34.2 comprising larger, longer loans of between Revenue less impairment 413.6 427.4 3.2 1,000 and 7,000 repayable over a period of 1 Revenue yield 98.8% 96.0% between one and five years.
The customer is 2 supported by a family member or friend with a Impairment % revenue 30.0% 38.7% 3 good credit record who is prepared to guarantee Risk-adjusted margin 69.1% 58.9% the loan if the customers circumstances change.
Costs 275.8 285.6 3.4 CCDs proposition offers customers competitive Interest 33.9 39.3 13.7 pricing and a very customer-centric approach to 4 Profit before tax 103.9 102.5 1.4 forbearance, including the high levels of personal 5 service that the group deploys in all its offerings.
Return on assets 18.1% 15.1% We initially trialled the guarantor loans pilot 1 Revenue as a percentage of average receivables.
under the brand name of Tandem using only 2 Impairment as a percentage of revenue.
Since its launch, we have 3 Revenue less impairment as a percentage of average receivables.
significantly developed the customer application 4 Profit before tax is stated before an exceptional cost of 3.4m 2013: 13.7m in respect of a business restructuring.
and underwriting process through a test and 5 Profit before interest and exceptional costs after tax as a percentage of average receivables.
learn approach to improve the overall customer journey.
In addition, in November we launched a direct to consumer proposition through the development of a customer-friendly website and CCD delivered profit before tax and exceptional reduced by 29.1% during 2014 but the quality rebranded Tandem as glo, short for guarantor costs 1.4% up on last year.
This reflects strong of the receivables book improved materially.
This was supported by a small execution against a challenging programme This resulted in sales levels running 19% lower investment in marketing spend, including a TV of work to transition the home credit business than the previous year during the first 10 months and radio campaign to test the level of demand to a smaller but leaner, better-quality, more of the year.
As expected, the anniversary of tighter and our ability to access the market opportunity.
modern business focused on returns, whilst credit standards saw the year-on-year sales The results of the pilot will be evaluated during investing in the Satsuma online loans proposition.
shortfall moderate to around 9% during the last the first half of 2015.
The success in delivering the strategy has two months of the year, with the business also resulted in a significant increase in CCDs return benefitting from the rebranding of the home credit on assets from 15.1% in 2013 to 18.1% in 2014. business to Provident in November and the associated TV advertising campaign.
Whilst the disposable incomes of home credit customers have increased modestly over the last Receivables at the end of 2014 were 20.5% year, customer confidence remains relatively low.
lower than the prior year, less marked than Accordingly, the demand for credit from betterthe reduction in customer numbers due to quality, existing customers has remained relatively the shedding of marginal customers and the subdued for the majority of the year.
In addition, corresponding focus on better-quality established the tighter credit standards implemented during customers.
The revenue yield remained robust at the final quarter of 2013 have continued to restrict 98.8%, up from 96.0% in 2013, due to a modest the recruitment of more marginal customers into shift in mix towards shorter-term, lower-risk, the business.
Consequently, customer numbers higher-yielding lending.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 59 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance The implementation of standardised arrears and CCD Looking ahead collections processes coupled with tighter credit 2014 has been a year of excellent progress standards produced a significant improvement in against our new strategy.
CCD has undergone arrears during 2014 and resulted in the ratio of a transformational amount of change in deploying impairment to revenue reducing from 38.7% in technology, standardising processes, launching 2013 to 30.0% in 2014. new products, developing underwriting and The increase in revenue yield and reduction in collections capabilities, investing in systems and impairment produced a significant strengthening controls to deliver high standards of compliance in the risk-adjusted margin from 58.9% in 2013 with regulation and developing our people and to 69.1% in 2014. talent.
Yet we have also achieved an important goal which we set at the start of the year we Business performance is benefiting from have delivered stable year-on-year profits and the programme of cost savings implemented an increase in the return on assets.
primarily during 2013, which secured a yearon-year reduction in the cost base of 3.4%.
In home credit, the transition to a leaner, betterThis was achieved after reinvesting approximately quality, more modern business is running 17m of the previously announced gross cost ahead of schedule.
This has been an excellent savings of 28m in enhancing IT, business and achievement from all of our employees who have people development processes to support the made this possible.
The home credit market is repositioned home credit business, embedding mature but we are well placed to deliver excellent the governance and regulatory framework returns for our shareholders whilst continuing required to transition CCD to the FCA and funding to serve our customers for many more years the start-up of Satsuma.
The programme to deploy technology throughout In Satsuma, we have developed strong capabilities the field operation to support an improvement in at every part of the customer journey.
We have productivity and reinforce compliance continues utilised our core skills in both CCD and Vanquis to run well ahead of schedule.
This allowed a Bank to lend responsibly and begin to build a reduction in the field administration workforce of sustainable business.
The investment we have 225 in 2014 and resulted in cost savings of 2m made in 2014 puts the business on a very sound in the second half of the year, rising to 4m in footing and we believe it will achieve a monthly 2015, with no impact on customer service levels.
break-even during 2015 and then make a full-year An exceptional restructuring cost of 3.4m has profit contribution from 2016 onwards.
We are been incurred in 2014 in respect of associated confident that we will achieve a top-three market redundancy costs 2013: 13.7m.
position over the next two to four years.
Interest costs in 2014 were 13.7% lower than last All of our actions in CCD are driven by the year reflecting the 17.5% reduction in average ethos of lending responsibly and providing receivables which has been partly offset by an our customers with the right products and increase in the funding rate for the business from services.
Maintaining our high levels of customer 6.8% to 7.1%.
The increased funding rate reflects satisfaction continues to be central to our CCD absorbing a greater proportion of the higherbusiness.
We have a clear, focused and deliverable cost, fixed-rate, longer-duration borrowings as the strategy and we have a strong management team average retail deposits held by Vanquis Bank has with a combination of in-house experience and increased during the year.
proven external track records to deliver it.
CCD remains a highly profitable and cashgenerative business and the bedrock of the groups high dividend payout ratio.
Provident Financial plc 60 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Moneybarn 3 Moneybarn Introduction Moneybarn is the market leader in the provision of finance to buy cars for people in the non-standard credit market, very often to help them get to work.
Through careful consideration of customers applications and comprehensive affordability Peter Minter Managing Director assessments, Moneybarn is able to help Moneybarn those who may have had problems with credit in the past but who are now over those problems.
15.0m 115 1,2 Profit before tax Employees Non-standard car finance 151.7m 9,000 Year-end receivables Average loan 22,000 Customers 1.
Pro forma result for the year ended 31 December 2014 based on applying the groups lower cost of funding to pre-acquisition results.
Stated prior to amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional costs.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 61 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending 3 credit cards car finance Moneybarn Our strategy To deliver our strategy, we continue to focus on: Maintaining clear and consistent credit Moneybarns strategy is management objectives to ensure that we Using the groups balance sheet strength and to develop its position as maintain a good quality receivables portfolio funding lines to access the significant growth with stable levels of impairment: the leading non-standard opportunity that exists in the non-standard vehicle finance segment in the UK: Offering straightforward and transparent car finance provider in vehicle finance products with no product Maintaining our strong relationships with the UK, delivering positive add-ons or hidden charges: brokers and securing a position of primacy customer outcomes, where appropriate: Treating our customers fairly throughout their relationship with us, managing conduct sustainable growth and Developing our product proposition and risk and ensuring that we comply fully with our channels to market to access additional high shareholder returns all applicable regulation: and growth opportunities: that meet the groups Ensuring that we deal in a responsible and Capitalising on the synergies available through consistent way with customers who get minimum thresholds.
the groups expertise in credit, marketing and into financial difficulty.
collections as well as its customer footprint: Continuing to invest in and develop our IT infrastructure to maintain our marketleading credit decisioning and a smooth customer journey: Im proud to be part of an organisation that really makes a difference to our customers lives.
Understanding whether a customer can afford a loan really is important to us and gets the relationship off to the best start.
We understand that circumstances can change and if this happens its great to be able to work with a customer to help them get back on track.
I love the fact that were making a difference.
Will, Moneybarn Customer Services Team Provident Financial plc 62 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Moneybarn continued How Moneybarn loans work Moneybarn operates a business model based on our common approach, What allows us to do what we do but adapted to closely suit the needs of consumers in the non-standard used car finance market.
What we do for our customers The value this creates Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 63 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance How Moneybarn loans work What allows us to do what we do Market-leader in non-standard used car finance with over 20 years Strong broker relationships maintained and built by consistent of experience in the car finance market.
Provide finance for used cars, the primary use of which is to travel Simple broker commission structures.
to work, bought through dealerships.
Focus on non-standard customers, less well served by mainstream and manufacturer-tied lenders.
What we do for our customers 3 1 Simple hire purchase car finance with no add-ons or Investment in automation and credit scoring systems insurances focused on the needs of the non-standard where appropriate, building market-leading service levels second-hand car buyer.
with acceptance in principle decisions within four seconds of application.
2 Customer relationships established with a welcome call and 4 maintained with individual discussions when issues arise.
Fairness is at the centre of all discussions with customers, always looking to keep the customer in their car if possible and looking for the best outcome for them overall.
Better outcomes for customers helping people get to work.
Strong growth opportunity in a market with large demand, The value poorly served by mainstream lenders through the cycle.
More suitable product than unsecured lending.
this creates Primacy with key brokers to access the best leads available.
Low level of upheld Financial Ombudsman Service FOS complaints.
Provident Financial plc 64 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Moneybarn continued An introduction to Moneybarn 1.
T he non-standard vehicle We believe that Moneybarn is a finance market Moneybarn is Provident Financials first acquisition great fit with the rest of the group.
since the demerger of the international business Moneybarn is the largest provider of non-standard It is very well-positioned to take in 2007.
The business shares the same ethos as vehicle finance in the UK, with an approximate advantage of the strength of the the groups other businesses in providing access market share of between 20% and 25%.
groups balance sheet and funding to credit for those who may find it difficult to Direct competition comes from around 10 other source credit from other lenders.
lines as well as benefiting from providers, the largest of which are Moneyway, First Response and Advantage.
the credit and marketing skills and The business was originally established in 1992 customer footprint that reside in the and initially started out life providing finance to The non-standard vehicle finance market shrank aspirational owners of more expensive vehicles.
groups other businesses to deliver considerably as a result of the credit crunch, as The average amount lent was approximately lenders reduced their lending, collapsed or exited significant growth going forward.
However, the business model changed the market.
It has recovered in recent years but significantly around the time of the credit crunch remains less than half of the size it was in 2007. to focus on lower-value, more mainstream vehicle It is estimated that approximately half a million cars purchases.
Significant investment was made were purchased by non-standard individuals in in developing a bespoke IT platform to support the UK in 2013, of which about 10% were funded efficient and effective broker and customer through car finance products with the remainder relationships and the management team was being funded through cash, loans from families strengthened.
The business was also successful and friends or other forms of credit such as in securing funding through the recession, unlike personal and guarantor loans.
Growth in future many of its competitors.
demand is supported by a number of factors From 2010, the business enjoyed strong growth including customer needs, an overall under supply but from 2013 its origination of new loans became of non-standard car finance and the better value increasingly restricted by the funding constraints of specialist car finance relative to many other resulting from its ownership structure.
In order non-standard funding options.
to allow the management team to realise the We believe that there is considerable unmet growth opportunity in the non-standard car demand in this market and that the market size finance market, the owners decided to sell the will be determined principally by supply-side business to Provident Financial in August 2014. factors.
Moneybarn, under the groups ownership, The consideration was 120m which was satisfied is very well placed to take advantage of this by an equity placing of Provident Financial shares.
We believe that Moneybarn is a great fit with the rest of the group.
It is very well-positioned to take advantage of the strength of the groups balance sheet and funding lines as well as benefit from the credit and marketing skills and customer footprint that reside in the groups other businesses to deliver significant growth.
I had a few credit problems in the past when my marriage broke down.
Even though that was a few years ago and Ive now sorted everything out, I still found it very difficult to get a car loan.
Thats why it was so refreshing when Moneybarn gave me the help I needed.
Pete, Telford Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 65 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance We often have conversations with our customers who have had difficulties with their finances in the past, but we find by being approachable, straightforward and honest, it incentivises them to do the same.
Jenny, Moneybarn Moneybarn typically requires customers to pay 2.
Product a deposit and has historically lent up to the trade Our customers are very similar to Vanquis Bank We offer secured car loans in a responsible value of the vehicle.
We have also recently started customers.
They have a thin or impaired credit manner through conditional sales contracts.
lending between trade and retail value.
Historically, history and often find it difficult to access credit Formally, the vehicle is owned by Moneybarn the loan has been required to be greater than from more prime lenders.
They have an average until the final instalment has been paid by 5,000 and the vehicle to have mileage of less age of approximately 40, are employed or selfthe customer.
Over 90% of our deals are for than 100,000.
The minimum loan amount was employed and have an income level around the used vehicles.
very recently reduced to 4,000 and we continue national average of 25,000.
They are more likely to explore opportunities to develop and extend The car is typically used by our customers for to be male than female.
everyday necessities such as travelling to work Surveys of our customers show that they are rather than for leisure purposes.
Our ethos is to very satisfied with the service provided by help ordinary people get to work.
Currently, all of Moneybarn and our complaints levels are very our lending is against cars and we dont provide low.
Like the rest of the group, this is an intrinsic credit for other vehicle classes, such as light part of our business model and strategy.
Product diversification will be explored for future growth potential.
Our contracts are typically for between four and five years with instalments paid monthly.
The average value of a loan is approximately 9,000 and the representative APR is 32%.
We do not sell any ancillary products, such as PPI or GAP insurance, and we do not have hidden fees or charges, demonstrating a strong cultural fit with the group.
Provident Financial plc 66 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Moneybarn continued We believe that our approach to collections is 4.
Distribution channels An important part of our success clear and fair and surveys of our customers The primary source of our new customer leads at Moneybarn is our people.
is through a network of well-established brokers.
We have an experienced and Our default rates and collections performance They value our service levels, technology and the respected management team who have remained very consistent since the change excellent relationships that we forge with them.
are all remaining with the business in focus of our business in 2010.
Our impairment This is reinforced by approximately 60 staff based under the Provident Financial charge represents approximately 3% of within brokers dedicated to Moneybarn business.
Consistent with Vanquis Bank, we umbrella.
They are very well Brokers earn commission for each lead that they recognise an impairment provision as soon as supported by our passionate and provide which results in a loan being issued.
one contractual monthly payment is missed.
motivated employees who play Customers using a broker can source their vehicle from any car dealership.
a vital role in ensuring that we 6.
Infrastructure serve our customers in the best We also source leads through independent car At Moneybarn we have a highly scalable IT possible way.
dealers and a very small number from our own platform that supports the end-to-end customer website www.
We were the first lender in the market to our own dealership network which sells vehicles.
adopt automated underwriting decision making.
Our IT system is completely bespoke, having been developed in house, and our in-house IT team is Going forward, we aim to explore synergies able to respond quickly to business requirements with the group to develop a more well-defined and ensure that we remain at the forefront business to consumer proposition and, in of technology.
particular, seek to develop the synergies available with the Vanquis Bank customer base.
We have a strong cultural appetite for compliance and meeting our regulatory obligations.
Underwriting and collections Paramount to this is treating customers fairly.
We believe that we have developed marketThe new and used car finance market is now leading credit decisioning.
Our underwriting regulated by the FCA and we are well underway is highly automated which allows for rapid in implementing our transition plan in order to profiling and provisional approval of customers, submit our application for full authorisation in the providing us with a competitive advantage.
Our credit science is based on a combination of An important part of our success at Moneybarn external credit bureau data, our own proprietary is our people.
We have an experienced and scorecards and policy rules.
The underwriting respected management team who are all process includes robust affordability assessments, remaining with the business under the Provident including obtaining proof of income, to ensure that Financial umbrella.
They are very well supported we only lend when it is responsible to do so.
by our passionate and motivated employees who play a vital role in ensuring that we serve our Collections are normally made through fixed customers in the best possible way.
If a customer gets into financial difficulties during the term of We are currently investing in our people and the loan, then our customer services team will additional headcount to support our future work closely with the customer to help them growth, meet the higher regulatory standards get back on track.
This may include a temporary under the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and payment arrangement for short-term financial to bring our governance processes more in line difficulties.
However, for those customers that with those of the rest of the group.
demonstrably can no longer afford the ongoing repayments, the most appropriate exit strategy is often through the repossession and sale of their vehicle to settle their loan before the vehicle depreciates further.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 67 Provident Financial Group 3 1 2 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard Non-standard Home credit Online lending credit cards car finance Financial performance Looking ahead Moneybarn has contributed a profit before tax, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional 2014 has been a significant year in Moneybarns costs of 5.8m in the four months following its acquisition.
The results for the four months, together history.
Becoming part of the Provident Financial with the pro forma results for the 2014 financial year restated to apply the groups lower cost of funding group offers us exciting opportunities for further to pre-acquisition results, are set out below: growth and for us to help more non-standard credit market consumers get access to the car 1 they need for everyday life.
The increased volume Post-acquisition Proforma Four months ended Year ended of new business written over the last four months 31 December 31 December of the year is very encouraging and leaves us well 2014 2014 placed as we enter the new year.
m m 2015 is set to be another exciting year as the Customer numbers '000 22 22 business is embedded within the group and we Year-end receivables 151.7 151.7 take advantage of the growth opportunity available Average receivables 143.4 135.1 to us.
The teams main priorities for 2015 are: Revenue 13.8 38.0 Using the groups balance sheet strength and Impairment 1.2 4.7 funding lines to accelerate growth and capture Revenue less impairment 12.6 33.3 the market opportunity available in the non- 2 Risk-adjusted margin 24.6% standard car finance market: Costs 4.2 11.1 Continuing to develop our product proposition Interest 2.6 7.2 by extending lower-value lending and other 3 Profit before tax 5.8 15.0 potential channels: 4 Return on assets 12.9% Exploring the potential synergies available with the rest of the group in credit, marketing and 1 Restated to apply the groups lower cost of funding to pre-acquisition results.
collections, as well as bringing the benefits of 2 Revenue less impairment as a percentage of average receivables.
Moneybarn vehicle finance to the Vanquis Bank 3 Profit before tax for the four months ended 31 December 2014 is stated before the amortisation of acquisition intangibles of customer base: 2.5m and an exceptional cost of 3.9m in respect of acquisition-related expenses.
4 Profit before interest, the amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional costs, after tax as a percentage of Investing further in our infrastructure and IT average receivables.
to support our growth targets, ensure that our IT capability remains a competitive advantage and bring our governance and controls up to Moneybarn has performed well, delivering The business is investing in additional headcount the very high standard across the rest of the results in line with the internal plans established to support future growth, meet the higher group: and immediately on acquisition.
New business regulatory standards under the FCA and to bring Effectively managing the process of obtaining volumes have picked up significantly as a result governance processes in line with those of the full authorisation from the FCA and continuing of access to the groups funding.
This has allowed rest of the group.
Headcount has increased to ensure that our business produces positive the extension of the product offering to lend up from 90 at the end of August to 115 at the end customer outcomes.
to retail value, reinforcing Moneybarns primacy of December and is expected to increase to across its broker network.
Average monthly approximately 150 by the end of 2015.
We are delighted with the start that Moneybarn volumes in the last four months of the year were has made since becoming part of the group.
Moneybarn is a high returns business and approximately 1,000 compared with around 730 The highly scalable platform, the strong broker generated a pro forma return on assets of in the first eight months of the year and around relationships and the quality and enthusiasm 12.9% for 2014 as a whole.
670 in the corresponding four-month period of our management team and employees gives last year.
us confidence that we will develop into a very important contributor to the future growth in Default rates have remained stable and are the groups earnings.
consistent with the levels incurred in the previous 18 months.
This has enabled the business to deliver a risk-adjusted margin for 2014 as a whole of 24.6%, in line with the ratio of 25% communicated at the time of the acquisition.
