Strategic report Corporate responsibility report Social and environmental committee Our strategy chairmans annual statement Rathbones corporate responsibility strategy can be summarised as follows: This is my first annual corporate responsibility report of the social and environmental committee SEC, which I chair.
Clients and investments Maintain and develop the relationships we have with our The SEC is responsible for ensuring that Rathbones effectively clients, treat them fairly and continue to meet their needs.
It is formed by members of staff from key functions such as facilities, HR, marketing, IT Consider corporate responsibility and governance issues in and investment management.
It meets on a quarterly basis and the companies in which we invest on behalf of our clients.
reports directly to the executive committee of the board.
Employees I am pleased to report that our carbon footprint has only Motivate and reward appropriately, encouraging their increased by 44 tCO e 1.5% despite the significant business development.
Communities With regard to environmental, social and governance ESG Engage in the communities in which we operate.
matters as they affect our business, the board believes that Environment the SEC has identified and assessed the significant risks to the Manage our environmental impact and reduce our carbon company.
The SEC, however, is not only about highlighting footprint by the efficient use of resources.
potential risks but also opportunities for the company to play its part as a good employer and as a contributor to the communities and environment in which we work and our clients live.
This report provides an overview of our activities Clients and investments more information can be found on our website.
Responsible investment We were delighted to be awarded the 2014 Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA Excellence General investment activities are not covered by a formal in Governance Award for the best sustainability and responsible investment policy, although social, environmental stakeholder disclosure in the report and accounts of a FTSE and ethical considerations are taken into account for 250 company.
We remain a constituent company of the specific mandates throughout the group, particularly those FTSE4Good Index series and a signatory to the UNbacked managed by our specialist ethical investment unit, Rathbone Principles for Responsible Investment.
Greenbank Investments, as well as a number managed by our charities team.
Philip Howell As at 31 December 2014, Rathbone Greenbank Investments Chief Executive Chairman of the SEC had 0.7 billion of funds under management, representing 2.9% of funds managed by Rathbone Investment Management.
18 February 2015 Through Rathbone Greenbank Investments and Rathbone Unit Trust Managements Ethical Bond Fund, the company is able to provide investment services tailored to clients interests in the area of socially responsible or sustainable investment.
Where appropriate, the company is also able to participate in new share issues offered by companies that provide environmentally or socially beneficial products or services.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 39 Strategic report Corporate responsibility report Clients and investments Engagement Affiliations Engagement with companies on ESG matters is largely undertaken by Rathbone Greenbank Investments ethical Rathbone Brothers Plc has been both a signatory and research team.
This ranges from low-level contact with respondent to CDP Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006. companies on issues relating to ESG disclosure to participation We are also a signatory to the CDP sister programmes on in co-filing and voting on shareholder resolutions at company Water Disclosure and Forests.
The group became a signatory AGMs.
These activities may occur as a result of fundamental to the UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investment analysis of companies ESG reporting or through collaborative PRI in September 2009 and continues to play an active role efforts initiated by interest groups such as CDP, UKSIF or the in the PRI Clearinghouse, a global platform for collaborative PRI Clearinghouse.
engagement initiatives which aims to encourage sustainable long term value.
In addition, Rathbone Greenbank Investments FTSE4Good ESG ratings scores is a long-standing member of influential responsible As institutional investors around the world increasingly focus investor groups such as the UK Sustainable and Investment on the ESG practices of the companies they invest in, ESG risk Finance Association UKSIF and the Ecumenical Council measures are an increasingly important part of the investment for Corporate Responsibility.
The FTSE4Good Index and ratings have been Voting designed to measure the performance of companies that meet or exceed globally recognised standards.
The groups voting activity is coordinated by its corporate governance committee.
Composed of investment managers The Indexs latest semi-annual review for which ratings and other representatives from across the business, the scores were published September 2014 confirmed Rathbone committee maintains group policy on corporate governance, Brothers Plc as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, and ensures its application in proxy voting in conjunction awarding the company the following ESG ratings out of a with advice from an external corporate governance consultant, maximum score of five for each category: Institutional Shareholder Services ISS, who were appointed Overview ESG ratings 0 5 to this role in April 2014.
Advice and research received by the committee supplements the analysis carried out by the 5 stock selection and collectives committees as part of the 4 investment process.
3.2 3.0 2.9 3 2.7 The committee was established in line with Rathbones obligations under the PRI, and pays heed to the Financial 2 Reporting Council UK Stewardship Code.
Rathbone Unit Trust 1 Management, as an institutional investor, meets its obligations as a signatory to the Stewardship Code, while Rathbone 0 Environment Social Governance Absolute Investment Management exercises the voting rights attached ESG rating to approximately 90% of the UK equity it holds on behalf of its clients.
Voting is also undertaken on any company if requested Within the Financial Services supersector, Rathbones by an underlying shareholder.
During 2014, the committee oversaw active proxy voting on During 2014, FTSE assumed full responsibility for a new 4,281 resolutions at 396 company meetings.
Voting on these research process and methodology for its FTSE4Good Index resolutions includes consideration of such issues as executive Series and ESG Ratings.
As a result, direct comparison with our remuneration, auditor independence, appointment of directors previous years ratings is not appropriate.
40 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility report Clients and investments Employee statistics CDP disclosure and performance score % of female employees: 50% In 2014, we improved our CDP Disclosure Score from 67 to 78 % of employees working part-time: 12% while our Performance Band moved back to D from E. % turnover rate: 7% The Disclosure Score out of 100 measures the level of % resignation rate: 5% transparency in company responses: the Performance Band AE, but only calculated for companies with disclosure scores Talent development above 50 measures how effectively companies are addressing Leadership shapes the culture of an organisation.
have a continuing focus on identifying future leaders and As part of our efforts to improve our performance again in supporting the current leadership to enhance their skills 2015, we have investigated the feasibility of initially adopting and widen their experience base.
We have worked in 2014 to emissions reductions targets for paper usage, which accounted develop more robust methods of identifying and developing for around 10% of our total carbon footprint this year.
potential with positive results and this work will continue.
A formalised mentoring programme has been implemented There are many variables which can influence our paper and will roll-out further in 2015. consumption such as regulatory changes, the type and frequency of client communications, and business factors such Structured career progression is important to our people and as acquisitions.
The emissions attributable to paper usage can new career pathways have been developed for investment also be influenced by the percentage of recycled content used professionals.
Work has now started on similar pathways for in paper stocks sourced by our third party suppliers.
However, we can by and large control the amount of Our graduate development programme is being upgraded in office stationery we consume as well as enlisting the help recognition of the importance of maintaining a high-quality of our clients and professional intermediaries to go paperless pipeline of younger talent.
We have also recognised that by using the Rathbones Online portal to access client the traditional graduate entry route is not the only source documentation such as portfolio valuations, tax packs of quality recruits as shown by the success of the 2013 and transaction information.
apprenticeship programme with the initial six apprentices now into their second year.
Further apprentices will be Having taken all these factors into consideration, it was selected in September 2015. decided in conjunction with our consultants Carbon Smart that we would renew our efforts to promote the usage of Learning Rathbones Online more widely among clients and await the We continue to make substantial and sustainable investments first full year reports on its uptake in summer 2015 before in the development of our people with an average spend per deciding whether setting meaningful targets is viable.
Training committees across the business regularly review the relevance and outcomes of development activity and training needs.
Employees In addition, we encourage our employees to take business relevant qualifications and offer generous support packages.
Our approach Our investment professionals are required to achieve Our business success is based on delivering a highly standards above the regulatory minimum with a particular professional and personal service to our clients and we believe focus on the Chartered Wealth Manager and Chartered this can only be achieved by having engaged and motivated Financial Analyst qualifications.
Investment professionals are employees with a diverse range of backgrounds, skills and also required to undertake a minimum of 35 hours per annum experiences.
Our employee strategy, policies and investment Continuing Professional Development.
plans are all designed to achieve these goals.
Further investment in electronic delivery methods for training We are firmly committed to evolving our people policies and will allow us to continue to maintain high levels of input at practices and increasing employee engagement in the coming lower cost yet still maintain the quality we demand.
years in line with our values.
Our goal continues to be the delivery of the highest possible quality of service to our clients through talented and professional employees.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 41 Strategic report Corporate responsibility report Employees Employees are encouraged to identify with and to become involved in the financial performance of the group through a Diversity and inclusion Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Save As You Earn scheme.
Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is our A full review of compensation schemes is scheduled for policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are 2015 to ensure that remuneration remains competitive and treated fairly and on merit regardless of their race, gender, is aligned to the groups longer term performance.
marital status, age, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
Employee relations Rathbones now has two women non-executive directors and Engagement with our employees is crucial to the continuing has thus achieved our commitment to meet Lord Davies target success of the group.
We communicate regularly and openly of 25% female board representation.
For Rathbones as a whole, with our employees on matters affecting them and on the we have a broadly 50:50 balance between males and females.
issues that have an impact on the performance of the group While female representation at a senior executive management and actively seek their feedback on these matters.
In 2014 level is low, representation in senior and middle management we held a series of meetings for the entire workforce over roles in support departments, our investment research team four days when the group executive team presented the and within the unit trust business is good and continues to groups five year strategy.
Rathbones recognises the importance of an appropriate Historically, women are less well represented in investment work-life balance, both to the health and welfare of employees management roles and addressing this imbalance is a key and to the business.
Employees are not expected to work long priority.
We are working hard to bring in more women in hours on a consistent or ongoing basis and any overtime is graduate trainee positions our graduate programme currently voluntary.
Holiday entitlement begins at 25 days per annum comprises broadly equal numbers of men and women and for all employees, increasing to 30 days after five years service, by encouraging more applications from women to our work with the opportunity to buy up to five additional days of experience and financial career programmes.
Our work-life flexible leave each year.
balance provisions are designed to be attractive to women who wish to enter our industry as well as to encourage parents to remain in work with us when raising a family.
Communities We are also targeting the progression and development of existing female employees with opportunities for training Donations and fundraising such as our early career team worker programme.
During 2013 During the year, the group made total charitable donations of and 2014, 26 women participated in this programme and 10 of 253,000, representing 0.55% of group pre-tax profits 2013: them have since been promoted into more senior positions, 234,000, representing 0.53% of group pre-tax profits.
This including six who are now managing others.
included a payment of 100,000 to the Rathbone Brothers At the next level, a further 23 women attended management Foundation.
It also included the matching of employee development programmes ranging from leadership skills and donations made through the tax efficient Give As You Earn introduction to management courses to the Henley Business GAYE payroll giving scheme.
In 2014, Rathbones employees School Leadership Programme.
made payments totalling 191,000 2013: 230,000 through this scheme, which is administered by the Charities Aid Performance and reward Foundation.
The company matched staff donations of up to We offer a comprehensive remuneration package which is 200 per month made through GAYE and in 2014 donated regularly reviewed to ensure that we remain competitive.
This 134,000 2013: 128,000 to causes chosen by employees is supported by challenging objective setting and appraisal through this method.
processes to align reward to corporate goals and motivate and During 2014, the Rathbone Brothers Foundation, the encourage high performance.
companys charitable fund founded in 2012, considered many All employees have the opportunity to participate in a requests for assistance and met a number of charities.
Three pension arrangement and are eligible to receive at least a significant donations were made to: 3% contribution from the company to a group personal Arts Insight, which uses music and drama to equip pension arrangement.
In addition, we provide health and children from less privileged backgrounds with the well-being initiatives including private medical cover, interpersonal skills to develop into confident adults annual medical examinations to all staff and an employee with essential skills for life confidential advice service.
42 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility report Communities Donations and fundraising Environment Urban Pursuit, which helps vulnerable young people in the Bristol area in danger of being excluded from Environmental concerns form a key element of Rathbones mainstream society get back on track through adrenaline day-to-day operations.
We strive to understand the full range of sports and adventure activities our environmental impacts and act, where possible, to reduce them.
This report forms the seventh consecutive year we Merefield School in Southport, which provides education have calculated the carbon footprint of our business activities, for pupils with profound learning difficulties.
including office buildings, business travel, waste generation Education and youth development and paper use.
Our corporate responsibility programme continues to develop Scope strongly with a committed focus on youth development.
The Our reporting period covers the 12 months to 30 September Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme is a significant 2014 2013 14.
Last year 2012 13 we extended the boundary element of our investment in young people, which involves of our carbon footprint calculations, including the carbon investment managers delivering presentations to 1624 year emissions attributable to paper, waste and refrigerants for the olds within our offices and at schools around the UK.
Therefore, 2012 13 is our new baseline year.
programme aims to equip those attending with the necessary information to take ownership of their finances at a young Building energy use age.
The programme is free and in 2014 alone we reached Building energy use accounted for 71% of our total carbon over 2,000 young people in both the independent and state footprint in 2013 14.
Our business is growing with full time education sectors.
equivalent FTE employee numbers increasing by 5% from In addition to our own education programmes, we were 2012 13 to 2013 14.
However, our carbon emissions are not lead sponsors of other education-related events such as the matching this growth per FTE employee the carbon footprint 1 Education Business Awards, the Chalke Valley History Festival from our buildings has actually decreased by 1%.
for Schools and the Bang Goes the Borders science festival.
Further information on all of our initiatives for young people Building energy use tCO e per FTE employee 2 3.0 can be found at www.
2.43 2.40 2.0 Rathbones further acknowledges the importance of sport in the lives of young people to teach key life skills and has 1.0 agreed ongoing partnerships with English Lacrosse and 0 Lacrosse Scotland up until 2017.
Our involvement to date has 2012 13 2013 14 had a significant impact on the development of the sport, particularly with the introduction of additional initiatives to Unusually, there were no office changes in the year and so encourage participation in the sport at community level.
2 our total internal floor area remains unchanged at 14,430m.
Local communities Our buildings-related carbon emissions have also remained fairly level, increasing by just 3%.
This is not because we are Rathbones is committed to support the communities in which using more energy but is due to an 11% increase in the carbon it is based.
Regional offices are encouraged to get involved in intensity of UK grid electricity use see conversion factors their local communities and support charities and initiatives 2 in the glossary.
If we consider energy use instead of carbon that they feel are important to the area.
emissions it is a different story.
Our gas usage expressed in kilowatt hours kWh has reduced by 8% and our total electricity kWh has reduced by 5%.
When balanced with a 5% increase in staff numbers, this means that our total gas and electricity kWh per FTE employee has dropped by 10%.
Gas and electricity use kWh per FTE employee 8,000 6,151 6,000 5,530 4,000 2,000 0 2012 13 2013 14 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 43 Strategic report Corporate responsibility report Environment Building energy use The reduction in travel emissions is largely due to reduced air travel with our CO e from flights falling as expected by 2 The reduction in gas kWh is explained in part by the milder 15%.
However, the 43 tCO ereduction in air travel emissions 2 winter, with 24% fewer heating degree days than in 2012 13. was counteracted by a 16 tCO e 12% increase in emissions 2 However, our reduction in electricity kWh will have been from staff car mileage, due to the increased number of helped by energy efficiency measures.
For example, we moved investment managers and increased sales activity by the our Liverpool office servers to an off-site data centre as we did unit trust distribution team.
3 for our London servers two years ago.
This engenders energy efficiencies from the economies of scale found in data centres.
Paper Business travel This is the second year that we have CO e data for our paper 2 use and we are pleased to report that comparison shows there Business travel accounts for 16% of our total carbon footprint.
has been a small reduction from 333 tCO e in 2012 13 to 311 2 This is a significant proportion and something we can affect tCO e in 2013 14.
This reduction results predominantly from a 2 through our business practices.
Over half of our travel CO e 2 10% reduction in the total weight of paper we used.
We have achieved this reduction in paper use while continuing Breakdown of emissions from business travel tCO e steady business growth: we used 28% less paper by weight 2 per investment management account than we did in 2012 13.
8 Paper use per investment management account kg 145 4.0 3.0 2.6 248 1.8 2.0 72 1.0 0 2012 13 2013 14 Flight The reduction in paper use was due in part to the launch Rail Non-company cars in 2013 14 of an enhanced online client portal Rathbones Taxis Online, giving clients secure access to valuations in digital rather than paper format.
60% of the paper we used was for printing in our offices and We have reduced emissions from need not be of the highest quality.
Accordingly, 78% of the pulp used was recycled.
The remaining 40% of paper used was business travel by 10% per FTE employee for externally printed material on high quality, non-standard paper types.
Here the options for sourcing recycled content are We are pleased to have reduced the total carbon emissions limited and only 8% of the pulp used was recycled.
We intend due to staff business travel by 6% since 2012 13.
Total business to engage our suppliers in the coming year to explore options travel emissions per FTE employee have also reduced by 10% to increase recycled content.
2 The 10% reduction in the total weight of paper we used was predominantly due to a reduction in our internal paper Business travel tCO e per FTE employee 2 use which has meant that our overall recycled paper usage 0.8 has dropped.
0.61 0.6 0.55 Percentage of the pulp that went into making our paper and 0.4 printed materials that was post-consumer waste recycled 57 60 0.2 50 40 0 2012 13 2013 14 20 0 2012 13 2013 14 44 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 % kg Strategic report Corporate responsibility report 6 Carbon footprint by scope tCO e Environment 2 2013 14 2012 13 Waste Scope 1: Natural gas 261 281 This year we started sending food waste from our London Refrigerant 51 23 head office to be composted, removing approximately 10 tonnes of food waste per year from our general waste stream.
Scope 2: Purchased electricity 1,450 1,463 Where possible, all Rathbones offices have some recycling Scope 3: facilities in place and 81% of our waste in 2013 14 was 7 Data centre 224 133 4 recycled.
This is a slight reduction against last years 84% Business travel 473 504 5 recycling rate.
In 2013 14 we generated 364 kg of waste in total Paper 311 333 including recycling and food waste per FTE employee, an Waste 11 9 increase of 1.7% on the previous year.
Electricity transmission and distribution 145 136 Total tonnes CO e 2,926 2,882 Of the 19% of our waste that is not currently recycled, 2 approximately 7% is sent to energy from waste facilities and only 12% is sent to landfill.
90% of our electrical equipment Carbon intensity that reached end of life last year was sent for reuse and the Carbon intensity remainder was responsibly recycled.
2013 14 2012 13 2013 14 2012 13 Staff FTE employees 867 829 3.4 3.5 Net internal area 24% of the general waste from head 2 of offices m 14,430 14,430 0.20 0.20 office is now being composted Operating income m 209.3 176.4 13.98 16.34 Funds under Refrigerants management bn 27.2 22.0 108 131 6 2 Carbon intensity is total all scopes tCO e per: FTE employee: m : Refrigerants are used in cooling mechanisms such as air 2 m of operating income: bn funds under management conditioning and refrigeration units.
They are unstable in the atmosphere and have a global warming potential many times Carbon offsetting higher than that of CO.
When the refrigerant level in a cooling 2 We have used the services of ClimateCare to purchase unit has dropped, this means that some refrigerant gas has 2,900 tonnes of carbon credits to offset our residual CO e 2 leaked into the atmosphere.
This years portfolio again comprises three As of last year, it is a mandatory requirement to report high-quality emission reduction projects which also offer these emissions.
In 2013 14, the only premises that required tangible community benefits: refrigerant refills were the Liverpool and Bristol offices and our an 18MW wind farm in Tamil Nadu, India which, as well as outsourced data centres, totalling 51 tCO e. 2 contributing to the generation of electricity from non-fossil Carbon footprint fuel sources, provides reliable power in rural areas and has installed water pumps in local villages Our total all-scopes carbon footprint for 2013 14 was 2,926 tCO e. This is a 1.5% increase against our new baseline year of a water filter project in Kenya which provides safe drinking 2 2012 13.
Within this, CO e from gas, electricity, paper, rail travel water as well as reducing deforestation and improving 2 and flights have decreased, while those from refrigerants, staff indoor air quality by removing the need to purify water by car mileage and taxis have increased.
conventional boiling methods Overall, however, our total tCO e per bn funds under a small-scale forestry project in Bolivia which combines 2 management has dropped by 18% and by 14% per m operating reforestation using native tree species with enhanced income, showing that we are continuing to decouple the biodiversity through the creation of ecological corridors growth of our business from the growth of our and poverty alleviation opportunities for over 800 local environmental impacts.
smallholders by encouraging sustainable agriculture land use.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 45 Strategic report Corporate responsibility report Environment Carbon Smart opinion statement Objectives Carbon Smarts statement provides Rathbones and its stakeholders Progress against our 2012 13 objectives with a third party assessment of the 1 Drive down emissions from paper either through quality and reliability of Rathbones reducing total weight of paper used or increasing the carbon footprint data for the reporting recycled content.
It does not Achieved represent an independent third party assurance of Rathbones We used 10% less paper by weight in 2013 14 than in management approach to sustainability.
2012 13 and our carbon footprint from paper use has Carbon Smart has been commissioned by Rathbones for the reduced by 22 tCO e. 2 seventh consecutive year to calculate Rathbones carbon 2 Continue improving the robustness of our waste data and footprint for all offices for its 2014 corporate responsibility to reduce the weight of waste produced per employee.
Through this engagement Carbon Smart has assured Rathbones that the reported carbon footprint is representative Partially achieved of the business and that the data presented is credible and This is the second year that we have gathered data using compliant with appropriate standards and industry practices.
our new waste management data collection protocol Data has been collected and calculated following the ISO 14064 and we have made good improvements in the quality of part 1 standard and verified against the World Resources this data.
However, our total weight of waste including Institute WRI Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol principles of recycling and food waste per FTE employee increased 1.7% completeness, consistency and accuracy.
Carbon Smarts work has included interviews with key 3 Continue to promote the use of videoconferencing as an Rathbones personnel, a review of internal and external alternative to travel.
documentation, interrogation of source data and data Achieved collection systems including comparison with the previous Videoconferencing is now widely used by all offices years data.
although it will never replace all office to office travel.
Carbon Smart has concluded the points listed below.
4 Encourage the greater use by clients of the online portal Relevance rather than paper-based services.
We have ensured the GHG inventory appropriately Achieved reflects the GHG emissions of the company and serves the We have launched Rathbones Online and are actively decision-making needs of users, both internal and external promoting it to our clients.
5 Improve our data quality, particularly in respect of Completeness purchased electricity Scope 2.
Rathbones continues to use the operational control 8 approach to defining their organisational boundaries.
Achieved Rathbones calculate total direct Scope 1, 2 and major We have moved from estimated to actual data at our Scope 3 emissions.
Reported environmental data covers all Exeter, Jersey and Cambridge offices.
employees and all entities that meet the criteria of being Our objectives for 2014 15 subject to control or significant influence of the reporting 1 Increase the proportion of clients using Rathbones organisation.
Online, which will lead to a reduction in paper usage and Consistency postage costs.
In order to ensure comparability, we have used the same 2 Explore the use of videoconferencing for client meetings.
calculation methodologies and assumptions as for the previous year.
3 Explore options for extending food waste collection to other offices.
Transparency Where relevant, we have included appropriate references 4 Aim to increase the recycled content of the paper we use to the accounting and calculation methodologies, in our printed publications.
46 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility report Environment Compliance with regulations Rathbones complies with the regulations for reporting Accuracy greenhouse gas emissions.
Following an operational control To our knowledge, data is considered accurate within the approach to defining our organisational boundary, our limits of the quality and completeness of the data provided.
2013 14 greenhouse gas emissions from business activities Data quality amounted to: Carbon Smart has assessed the data quality against the WRI 312 te resulting from the combustion of fuel and GHG Protocol principles.
Data from each emission source has the operation of any facilities classified as Scope 1 in been rated one poorest to five best.
For this year, overall this report data quality has increased from 3.8 in 2012 13 to 4.0 in 2013 14.
Contributing factors include: 1,450 tCO e from the purchase of electricity by the 2 company for its own use classified as Scope 2 in In 2013 14 Rathbones moved from estimates based on this report.
typical consumption figures to bill data at their Exeter, Jersey and Cambridge offices.
This means that Rathbones For 2012 13 our greenhouse gas emissions resulting from is only using estimated data for 4% of the total floor area in business activities amounted to 304 tCO e for Scope 1 and 2 2013 14 compared with 10% in 2012 13.
However, there are 1,463 tCO e for Scope 2.
It has not been practical to gather data 2 some offices for which Rathbones is not currently able to on energy use at our Birmingham and Lymington offices gather energy use data, and instead have used estimates 4% of the total floor area of our buildings, so we have used based on typical consumption figures.
These offices are typical energy consumption figures to calculate the energy Birmingham gas and Lymington gas and electricity.
use at these sites based on floor area.
We have stated the following carbon intensity metrics for 2013 14: 108 tCO e 2 Data for the head office for gas accounting for 30% of per bn funds under management and 13.98 tCO e per m 2 total gas use remains calculated based on proportional operational income.
For the previous reporting period, this occupancy of the building from overall meter readings.
was 131 tCO e and 16.34 tCO e respectively.
The methodology 2 2 The re-setting of the baseline year and the removal of used is in accordance with the requirements of the following pre-2012 13 data means the data sets are more relevant.
standards: the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised version : Environmental Reporting % of total carbon Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions Data quality footprint 2013 14 2013 14 2012 13 reporting guidance Defra, October 2013 and ISO 14064 part 1.
While our financial reporting year is the calendar year, our Overall 4.0 3.8 Scope 1 11% 4.0 4.0 reporting period for greenhouse gas emissions is 1 October to Scope 2 49% 4.0 3.0 30 September.
Scope 3 40% 4.5 4.5 Ben Murray Director Carbon Smart Limited 18 February 2015 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 47 Strategic report Corporate responsibility report Environment Notes 1 The carbon footprint from Glossary our buildings includes CO e 2 from natural gas, electricity Baseline year including transmission and Is the year against which we measure our performance in subsequent distribution losses and covers years.
Historically, this has been 2007 08, but there were significant our offsite data centres.
We changes to our reporting in 2012 13, so the 2012 13 data is now have also now included our baseline for performance comparison.
refrigerants and have adjusted the 2012 13 comparative Operational control approach 2 In 2014 the conversion factor This refers to how our organisational boundaries have been defined.
for UK grid electricity increased We use an operational control approach, which includes direct and by 11% due to a spike in coal indirect emissions from those buildings which we have operational use in UK electricity generation.
as opposed to financial control over.
This has made UK electricity in 2014 11% more carbon Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 intensive than in 2013 CO e is a universal unit of measurement that allows the global 2 3 Note that for transparency we warming potential of different greenhouse gases to be compared as still include energy use at the prescribed by the Kyoto Protocol.
data centres in our building energy figures Conversion factors Are used to convert different activities into tonnes of carbon dioxide 4 We have included composting equivalent tCO e. For example, consuming 1,000 kWh of UK gas is under recycling above 2 currently equal to emitting approximately 0.185 tCO e. The amount 2 5 Please note that the 2012 13 of CO e generated per kWh of UK grid electricity changes from year 2 recycling figure above is a to year following changes to the way we generate our electricity.
correction due to a miscalculation in last years waste figures Defra 6 The Greenhouse Gas Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
Protocol defines three scopes kWh of greenhouse gas emissions.
A kilowatt hour is a unit of energy.
One kWh is roughly equivalent to Please refer to the glossary for further information using a desktop computer for four hours.
7 Many of our core IT facilities at Heating degree days our London and Liverpool offices These are a measure of the severity and duration of cold weather.
have been outsourced to data For every degree the outside temperature drops below 15C in a day centres.
As per the Greenhouse counts as a degree day.
The colder the weather, the larger the degree Gas Protocol, emissions from the data centre have been moved day value for that day.
So two days at 10C counts as 10 degree days.
However, where we Reporting regulations have stated a figure for overall The Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports electricity use we have included the data centre, as we felt this is Regulations 2013. the more transparent approach Scope 8 Please refer to the glossary The Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines three categories of emissions.
for further information on Scope 1 Direct emissions : emissions directly into the Rathbones approach to defining its organisational atmosphere eg from natural gas and refrigerants boundary through an Scope 2 Indirect emissions : from the consumption of purchased operational control approach electricity Scope 3 Other indirect : emissions from Rathbones use of products and services such as business travel, water, paper etc.
Transmission and distribution T and D loss This is the energy loss that occurs when getting the electricity from a power station to the point of use.
To account for electricity emissions fully, Defra requires that organisations account for the T and D loss associated with the electricity they purchase.
Defra have historically included T and D loss under a single conversion factor for electricity consumption.
Last year purchased electricity was separated into Electricity generation and Losses from T and D. This change resulted in a proportion of our carbon emissions previously being reported against Scope 2 being moved to Scope 3.
48 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Governance 50 Directors 53 Directors report 55 Corporate governance report 59 Executive committee report 60 Group risk committee report 61 Remuneration committee report 75 Audit committee report 78 Nomination committee report 79 Approval of strategic report 80 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the report and accounts Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 49
