Capita plc 54 Strategic report Governance Accounts Case Running Londons Congestion study Charge and Low Emission Zone In January 2014, Transport for London TfL awarded Capita the contract to run Londons Congestion Charge and the Low Emission Zone LEZ business operations, including taking responsibility for the processing of traffic enforcement notices across the entire TfL road network.
The five-year contract is worth over 145m in revenue.
Capita held the initial contract for the design, Capita bid for both lots, and developed a new implementation and operation of the Congestion model to transform the services, building on our Charge when it was introduced in London in existing expertise and facilities whilst allowing for February 2003, and successfully ran the service maximum flexibility.
Significant channel shift and until 2009. increased mobile engagement are key elements of the new system, helping to drive a transformation Since the original in customer experience.
contract, TfL has modernised its strategy Most importantly, the scheme has been designed The experience and expertise and procurement to allow for expansion and innovation an openwe have across the Group, process and its aim ended service design that will ensure Capita can together with implementing with the new combined match TfLs expanding requirements as they emerge.
and managing the congestion Congestion Charge, The headroom in the contract will allow for TfL to LEZ and enforcement commission wider services, and so Capitas system charge scheme when it was first tender was to find a is being built with this in mind.
launched, means that we are supplier who could System implementation and transfer has been running well equipped to deliver for TfL.
deliver a flexible, scalable smoothly and in September 2014, nine months after solution promoting Dawn Marriott-Sims the original contract award, TfL announced that it Joint Chief Operating Officer common services had made the decision to transfer control of the across the organisation Congestion Charge and Low Emission Zone to Capita with the potential to over a year earlier than the original planned hand-over grow as required.
The tender was issued in two lots, the first for the These services are currently being delivered under Congestion Charge and LEZ business operation the existing model as Capita continues to implement and the second for enforcement processing.
Until the original handover date in included substantial headroom for TfL to potentially November 2015, the previous contractors IBM will commission a much wider set of related services across continue to supply IT infrastructure services to Capita, the entire business: with an upper value of c. 750m supporting these operations.
Redesigning a key piece of Londons transport infrastructure from the ground up Capita plc 55 Strategic Strategic r report eport Governance Accounts Contract won Core business January 2014 Running Londons Congestion Charge and the Low Emission Case Running Londons Congestion Zone business operations, as well as having responsibility Value study for the processing of traffic enforcement notices across 145m 30m over five years Charge and Low Emission Zone the entire Transport for London TfL road network In January 2014, Transport for London TfL awarded Capita the contract to run Londons Congestion Charge and the Low Emission Zone LEZ business operations, including taking responsibility for the processing of traffic enforcement notices across the entire TfL road network.
deliver a flexible, scalable smoothly and in September 2014, nine months after solution promoting Dawn Marriott-Sims the original contract award, TfL announced that it Joint Chief Operating Officer common services Transformative approach will Builds on existing Capita had made the decision to transfer control of the across the organisation drive customer channel-shift expertise from a number Congestion Charge and Low Emission Zone to Capita with the potential to and mobile engagement of key businesses over a year earlier than the original planned hand-over grow as required.
The tender was issued in two lots, the first for the Contract allows for the These services are currently being delivered under Congestion Charge and LEZ business operation commissioning of a much the existing model as Capita continues to implement and the second for enforcement processing.
It also wider set of potential services its new system.
Until the original handover date in included substantial headroom for TfL to potentially across the entirety of TfL November 2015, the previous contractors IBM will commission a much wider set of related services across continue to supply IT infrastructure services to Capita, the entire business: with an upper value of c. 750m supporting these operations.
Redesigning a key piece of Londons transport infrastructure from the ground up Capita plc 56 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Company-wide support services, such 2015 developments Flexible operating structure as IT, finance, legal and commercial, As we consistently grow our skills We have consistently maintained a business assurance, risk and compliance, and capabilities in support of our straightforward and efficient divisional health and safety, environment, changing client needs, and as our structure that supports Capitas major HR, corporate marketing and business continues to grow strongly, sales effort, our large scale customer communications, procurement and expanding both its service offering, management and business process property and facilities management market and geographical territory management contracts and our specialist continue to report directly to Group reach, we will make adjustments to businesses and service lines.
Board Executive Directors to ensure our divisional structure to ensure our robust control, consistent standards operations continue to be managed in Supporting growth through our flexible and shared benefits across the Group.
operating structure We have consistently maintained a Divisional performance in 2014 The range of sectors in which Capita straightforward and efficient divisional The majority of our divisions performed now has a presence is expanding and structure that supports Capitas major well in 2014, with strong growth in will continue to do so in the months sales effort, our large scale customer Workplace Services and Justice and and years ahead.
Our sales solutions are management and business process Secure Services, supported by new increasingly harnessing new techniques management contracts and our contracts including Ministry of Justice such as leading-edge data analytics, specialist businesses and service lines.
behavioural science, digital and social This structure supports our business New management continued to deliver interactions and innovative products model of controlled, profitable growth improvements in the profitability of the and services, enabling us to deliver even and provides ready access to the Groups IT Services and Property & Infrastructure greater value to our clients and their wider specialist skills and expertise, divisions, helped by the macroeconomic customers.
As we work to maximise economies of scale and centralised backdrop.
These positives were partially our market opportunities in 2015, we procurement.
It enables us to balance offset by the end of the Disclosure will make a number of small structural investment in internal innovation, and Barring contract in March and the changes to align the organisation to our establish and grow strong leadership and continued impact of the slower ramp internal capabilities, further strengthen management from within and deploy up of the DWP Personal Independence our sales structure and make it as easy as and harness the best of technology, Payment PIP assessments.
possible for clients to engage with us.
Divisional priorities and focus in 2015 Each division is led by a divisional In line with the Groups business executive director, all of whom are model, our divisional priorities are to members of the Executive Board along focus on creating new and additional with the Groups heads of corporate organic growth opportunities within development and communications, the businesses, continuous service and strategic business development and product innovation and development acquisitions.
The Executive Board to ensure we are being pro-active in meets monthly to share knowledge, addressing the needs of our clients experience and to discuss opportunities and responding to market dynamics.
and challenges which can be To support future organic growth addressed by cross-divisional support.
the divisions constantly look for In recognition of the central role Group opportunities to apply new and emerging business development and reputation technologies, and to add capability and management plays in our growth, four scale or enter a new market segment members of the Group corporate and through selective acquisitions.
business development team have been appointed to the Executive Board.
Capita plc 57 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Company-wide support services, such 2015 developments Flexible operating structure as IT, finance, legal and commercial, As we consistently grow our skills We have consistently maintained a business assurance, risk and compliance, and capabilities in support of our straightforward and efficient divisional health and safety, environment, changing client needs, and as our structure that supports Capitas major HR, corporate marketing and business continues to grow strongly, sales effort, our large scale customer communications, procurement and expanding both its service offering, management and business process property and facilities management market and geographical territory management contracts and our specialist continue to report directly to Group reach, we will make adjustments to businesses and service lines.
Board Executive Directors to ensure our divisional structure to ensure our 2014 operating businesses divisional structure robust control, consistent standards operations continue to be managed in Supporting growth through our flexible and shared benefits across the Group.
operating structure We have consistently maintained a Divisional performance in 2014 The range of sectors in which Capita straightforward and efficient divisional The majority of our divisions performed now has a presence is expanding and structure that supports Capitas major Group Board: 1 Non-Executive Chairman, 3 Non-Executive Directors and 5 Executive Directors well in 2014, with strong growth in will continue to do so in the months sales effort, our large scale customer Workplace Services and Justice and and years ahead.
Our sales solutions are management and business process Secure Services, supported by new increasingly harnessing new techniques management contracts and our contracts including Ministry of Justice such as leading-edge data analytics, Executive Board: Divisional, Corporate, Business Development and Acquisition Executive Directors specialist businesses and service lines.
behavioural science, digital and social This structure supports our business New management continued to deliver interactions and innovative products model of controlled, profitable growth improvements in the profitability of the and services, enabling us to deliver even and provides ready access to the Groups Customer Asset Insurance Professional Property & IT Services Health & Workplace Justice IT Services and Property & Infrastructure greater value to our clients and their wider specialist skills and expertise, Management Services & Benefits Services Infrastructure Wellbeing Services & Secure divisions, helped by the macroeconomic customers.
As we work to maximise economies of scale and centralised & International Services Services backdrop.
It enables us to balance Customer Shareholder Life and Software DCC Smart Applications, Health Specialist Electronic offset by the end of the Disclosure will make a number of small structural investment in internal innovation, Management Solutions Pensions BPO Services Metering Cloud & Advisory Recruitment Monitoring and Barring contract in March and the changes to align the organisation to our establish and grow strong leadership and Enterprise continued impact of the slower ramp internal capabilities, further strengthen management from within and deploy Telefonica O2 Corporate & Specialist Local Health Asset DWP PIP Managed Products Services up of the DWP Personal Independence our sales structure and make it as easy as Private Client Insurance Government Management Services and harness the best of technology, Euristix CMR & Life Tascor Payment PIP assessments.
Solutions End User innovation and business processes.
Corporate Entrust Central MDG Learning Services Services Debt & Fund Insurance Government Services Legal Services Document Tascor G2G3 Divisional priorities and focus in 2015 Each division is led by a divisional Solutions Managed IT Financial Information Infrastructure Medical HR Services In line with the Groups business executive director, all of whom are Solutions India IT Professional Debt & Services Services & Real Estate Services model, our divisional priorities are to members of the Executive Board along Middle East Screening Services & Banking Remediation Financial Technology focus on creating new and additional Design & International Translation with the Groups heads of corporate Solutions Software Solutions Poland Travel organic growth opportunities within Employee Management, Health and development and communications, & Events Treasury Benefits Central Housing Public Sector Interpreting the businesses, continuous service and South Africa strategic business development and Organisational Solutions Government & Health Evolvi Rail product innovation and development acquisitions.
The Executive Board Local Health ICT Germany Services Systems to ensure we are being pro-active in meets monthly to share knowledge, Government SWAN Managed Healthcare addressing the needs of our clients Consulting Regions Services, experience and to discuss opportunities Recruiting Updata Analytics and responding to market dynamics.
TFL & Partnering and challenges which can be DIO Parking To support future organic growth Healthcare Project RPP addressed by cross-divisional support.
Services Decisions the divisions constantly look for In recognition of the central role Group AXELOS JV opportunities to apply new and emerging business development and reputation Fire Service technologies, and to add capability and College management plays in our growth, four scale or enter a new market segment members of the Group corporate and AMT-SYBEX through selective acquisitions.
business development team have been SS1 EMS appointed to the Executive Board.
See See See See See See See See See page 58 page 59 page 60 page 61 page 62 page 63 page 64 page 65 page 66 Divisions overseen by Joint COO Vic Gysin Divisions overseen by Joint COO Dawn Marriott-Sims Capita plc 58 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Customer Management & International This division contains our customer management business, including Telefonica O2, debt legal services and our offshore contact centres.
2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities Strong performance delivered Further accelerate sales momentum, 2014 2013 across existing client operations particularly in strategic sectors: and transformation programmes.
utilities, technology, media Revenue 662.9m 505.7m Capita O2 partnership is performing and retail: well, in line with our and Telefonica deepen existing client Underlying 76.0m 62.9m UKs expectations.
relationships, by shifting current operating profit business to longer term deals Sustained growth in our international Underlying with additional and more capability.
Poland and South Africa have 11.5% 12.4% operating margin valued propositions more than doubled in size in FTE terms during 2014.
Indias growth in digital secure new clients in our Capex 12.0m 13.8m back-office webchat email customer target sectors.
management and web operations has Further strengthen our customer more than offset efficiencies delivered in Business development highlights: management transformation mature insurance back-office processing.
Maintained strong sales momentum proposition by acquiring and Further strengthened our securing significant long term customer partnering for new capability: debt management capability.
management deals in the retail, utilities trading capability to support Investing in stronger management and and technology and media sectors, clients operations to acquire better technology across both Akinika notably with npower, John Lewis new end-customers and retain and our enforcement businesses and Partnership and Samsung.
existing customers the acquisition of Stirling Park adds Significant developments in two enforcement capability in Scotland.
digital technology capability to geographic markets: entered the strengthen multichannel coverage The acquisition of Optima secured German market with the acquisition of regulatory approval in March 2014, analytics to drive insight to improve tricontes, expanded our reach in Ireland delivering specialist legal services to both efficiency and effectiveness of with the acquisition of outsourcing support growth in debt management, client operations.
mortgage BPO and the wider financial Underpin growth aspirations with services sector.
The business grew strongly in the year and therefore there was a slight pressure Continue our internal investment in on margins as this work was in its initial underlying customer management implementation phase.
infrastructure, management Focused on driving out operational and technology.
cost and creating more efficient operations systems and platforms, across all our contracts.
Capita plc 59 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Customer Management & International Asset Services This division contains our customer management business, including Telefonica O2, Asset services combines all our shareholder solutions, fund administration, mortgage debt legal services and our offshore contact centres.
and banking solutions, treasury and specialist financial services to corporate and private clients.
2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities 2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities Strong performance delivered Further accelerate sales momentum, Created new residential mortgage Continue to assist clients to respond 2014 2013 2014 2013 across existing client operations particularly in strategic sectors: servicing proposition and portfolio to the challenges of the heightened and transformation programmes.
utilities, technology, media transfers, addressing ongoing low activity regulatory environment facing Revenue 662.9m 505.7m Revenue 262.7m 246.6m Capita O2 partnership is performing and retail: in new lending and the commercial fund managers.
well, in line with our and Telefonica deepen existing client mortgage-backed security CMBS Underlying Underlying Continued emphasis on cross selling 76.0m 62.9m 63.6m 64.0m UKs expectations.
relationships, by shifting current new issuance market.
operating profit operating profit division-wide services to our expanded business to longer term deals Sustained growth in our international New services launched during client base following growth in 2014.
Underlying Underlying with additional and more capability.
Poland and South Africa have the year included: an expansion into 11.5% 12.4% 24.2% 26.0% operating margin operating margin valued propositions more than doubled in size in FTE terms international share plans: a growth Taking further strides in the residential during 2014.
Indias growth in digital secure new clients in our companies initiative targeted at mortgage marketplace, including a Capex 12.0m 13.8m Capex 20.9m 18.6m back-office webchat email customer target sectors.
organisations that have the potential focus on building societies.
management and web operations has to list in the future, where Capita can Further strengthen our customer more than offset efficiencies delivered in provide a range of services: and a custom Further development of our overseas Business development highlights: Business development highlights: management transformation mature insurance back-office processing.
self build initiative for local authorities operations and presence to take Secured a number of significant Maintained strong sales momentum proposition by acquiring and to help unlock real estate development.
advantage of the widening sales Further strengthened our contracts including preferred bidder securing significant long term customer partnering for new capability: network in feeding opportunities debt management capability.
Continued our investment in client with Co-operative Bank for residential management deals in the retail, utilities trading capability to support into European businesses.
Investing in stronger management and platforms to support future growth, mortgage servicing, a third servicing and technology and media sectors, clients operations to acquire better technology across both Akinika including further roll out of an IT contract with NAMA, and new fund notably with npower, John Lewis Fund solutions to expand its new end-customers and retain and our enforcement businesses and platform in our shareholder solutions solutions contracts with Prudential and Partnership and Samsung.
pan-European fund hosting and existing customers the acquisition of Stirling Park adds and an upgrade of our local authority CF Woodford.
professional support services and will Significant developments in two enforcement capability in Scotland.
digital technology capability to treasury portal and a strategic alliance invest into and develop its Transfer Strong focus on cross divisional geographic markets: entered the strengthen multichannel coverage with a leading treasury platform provider.
The acquisition of Optima secured Agency proposition.
sales increased overall new revenue German market with the acquisition of regulatory approval in March 2014, analytics to drive insight to improve The division invested in developing streams including cross sales referrals tricontes, expanded our reach in Ireland delivering specialist legal services to both efficiency and effectiveness of the infrastructure to support future to existing clients.
with the acquisition of outsourcing support growth in debt management, client operations.
growth and increased its compliance provider SouthWestern.
Acted on 76 new IPOs, representing mortgage BPO and the wider financial functions in line with increasing 53% of new issues, including a range of Underpin growth aspirations with services sector.
services for the second largest retail IPO, strong delivery.
The business grew strongly in the year Maintained our rating from Fitch SAGA.
and therefore there was a slight pressure and Standard & Poors as highest rated Continue our internal investment in Increased our financial services on margins as this work was in its initial servicer in Europe.
underlying customer management offering with the acquisitions of implementation phase.
infrastructure, management Throgmorton UK and Crown Mortgage Focused on driving out operational and technology.
Management, the latter of which cost and creating more efficient provided our entry point into residential operations systems and platforms, across mortgage servicing.
Both acquisitions are all our contracts.
Capita plc 60 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Insurance & Benefit Services Comprises our employee benefits, life & pensions and specialist and corporate insurance businesses.
2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities Working with the Pensions Regulator, Grow and add value to our existing 2014 2013 we have helped ensure that more client partnerships and invest in than five million workers have been technology and innovations to Revenue 640.4m 667.0m automatically enrolled into a pension enhance and improve the customer by their employer.
Underlying 55.5m 60.6m operating profit Successfully extended the reach Extend our presence in the pension and of our regulatory service offerings to employee benefits market via ongoing Underlying a number of existing life & pensions 8.7% 9.1% operating margin service developments and consultancy clients, including specialist training, innovations, further investment in the operational frameworks, complaint Orbit benefits platform and Hartlink Capex 37.6m 28.8m handling, actuarial services, project administration system, and maximise services, underwriting and claims.
Completed a number of Business development highlights: major IT platform migrations and Deliver propositions into newly Strong new business growth in our transformations, improving service regulated industry sectors and employee benefits and remediation and cost levels for our clients.
continue to help our customers services businesses.
Employee benefits manage the impact of regulatory Working collaboratively with our secured over 40 new clients.
clients to provide innovative solutions Presence in public sector pensions that help them address ongoing administration strengthened with Focus on and grow our position regulatory change and pension reforms.
extension of Teachers Pension in the claims and international Winner of Pensions Consultancy of Scheme contract.
the Year 2014, Pensions Age Awards.
Our online Orbit employee Integrate new medical businesses into A number of life & pensions benefits portal was further developed our specialist insurance business and contracts continued to step down in with further integration and single continue to deliver niche products and size as planned due to completion of sign-on functionality with other services to these industries.
initial transformation and reduction Capita businesses.
Innovative new tracing and Extend the reach of our remediation We have continued to smoothly verification service launched to help services into new markets.
wind down and transfer the SIP financial firms and trustees reunite administration business.
Continue our ICT platform and unclaimed assets and their owners.
property consolidation programmes, Launch of Defined Contribution with further IT transformation being proposition launched and changes in delivered for our clients.
progress to support clients in anticipation of implementation of Freedom and Choices Pension Budget Reforms.
New clients signed up to our new underwriting services platform in Singapore.
Capita plc 61 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Insurance & Benefit Services Professional Services Comprises our employee benefits, life & pensions and specialist and corporate This division comprises our local government and schools software, local government insurance businesses.
services and our strategic partnerships, central government services, document & information solutions and Entrust.
2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities 2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities Working with the Pensions Regulator, Grow and add value to our existing Continue to invest and innovate Key focus on new Mid Ticket sales team 2014 2013 2014 2013 we have helped ensure that more client partnerships and invest in to maintain our market leading established to ensure improved focus than five million workers have been technology and innovations to schools, childrens and family software and win rate on all deals above 10m Revenue 640.4m 667.0m Revenue 573.6m 556.5m automatically enrolled into a pension enhance and improve the customer positions launched SIMS 8, FMS 8, and below Big Ticket levels.
social care developments and cloudUnderlying Underlying Delivering Local Government 55.5m 60.6m 132.3m 128.5m based solutions.
operating profit Successfully extended the reach operating profit Extend our presence in the pension and Partnerships sales growth from of our regulatory service offerings to Austerity measures continue to employee benefits market via ongoing a more integrated service base.
Underlying Underlying a number of existing life & pensions impact our local authority and college 8.7% 9.1% 23.1% 23.1% operating margin service developments and consultancy operating margin clients, including specialist training, markets, but we are seeing continued Continue to support our existing and innovations, further investment in the operational frameworks, complaint growth in channel shift to digital new central Government clients in Orbit benefits platform and Hartlink Capex 37.6m 28.8m Capex 8.2m 8.3m handling, actuarial services, project solutions and mobile access to our delivering more for less including use administration system, and maximise services, underwriting and claims.
of technology, process automation, cross-selling opportunities.
Completed a number of Entrust continues to perform ahead innovation and flexible delivery.
Business development highlights: Business development highlights: major IT platform migrations and Deliver propositions into newly of plan, with revenue growth achieved Strong new business growth in our Continue to extend our local Develop and innovate new models transformations, improving service regulated industry sectors and through contract wins and cost savings.
employee benefits and remediation government reach with contract wins for delivery which help to meet the and cost levels for our clients.
continue to help our customers Designed the new Irish postcode services businesses.
Employee benefits such as Wycombe District Council, challenges presenting our central manage the impact of regulatory Working collaboratively with our system, Eircode, and created the 2.2m secured over 40 new clients.
and extensions with Brent and Government client base.
clients to provide innovative solutions individual postcodes required with a view Cherwell Councils.
Presence in public sector pensions that help them address ongoing to the system being launched in 2015.
Within childrens services focus on administration strengthened with Focus on and grow our position Successfully rebid the Learner regulatory change and pension reforms.
Successfully delivered the encoding part retaining customers and extending our extension of Teachers Pension in the claims and international Support Programme funds disbursement of the project on time and within budget, Winner of Pensions Consultancy of presence through high quality products Scheme contract.
contract now renamed Student Bursary which meant analysing, cleansing and the Year 2014, Pensions Age Awards.
and support and develop new solutions Support Services for the Education Our online Orbit employee encoding over 82m records.
Integrate new medical businesses into modules and services to meet A number of life & pensions Funding Authority, to commence in May benefits portal was further developed our specialist insurance business and Secured the endorsement of emerging customer requirements: invest contracts continued to step down in 2015.
Proposition included an innovative with further integration and single continue to deliver niche products and Constructionline as a delivery to maintain and enhance our market size as planned due to completion of technology solution involving Capita sign-on functionality with other services to these industries.
mechanism for PAS91 and SSIP from nine position through the development of initial transformation and reduction technology specialists to drive the Capita businesses.
main contractors in the construction SIMS8, FMS8 and social care.
service online to simplify and accelerate Innovative new tracing and Extend the reach of our remediation industry, helping to drive record new the application process.
We have continued to smoothly verification service launched to help services into new markets.
Invest further to broaden the software Constructionline sales in the year.
wind down and transfer the SIP Won the contract to provide a valuefinancial firms and trustees reunite services product offering across a range Proactively drove further efficiency administration business.
Continue our ICT platform and added document management service unclaimed assets and their owners.
of our product sets, allowing us to offer improvements within the Gas Safe property consolidation programmes, to Sellafield nuclear decommissioning both additional solutions to existing Launch of Defined Contribution Register through better organisation with further IT transformation being authority, the initial stage of a strategic customers and also extend our product proposition launched and changes in and communication.
move to increase our presence in the UK offering into new markets.
progress to support clients in anticipation nuclear industry.
Delivery of new HR, Finance of implementation of Freedom and and CRM systems to London We have made a significant investment Won the competitive bid process Choices Pension Budget Reforms.
Borough of Barnet within nine in the new Mansfield print facility to operate the Green Deal Home New clients signed up to our months of service commencement.
and are now well positioned to bid Improvement Fund disbursement service new underwriting services platform Relocation of the clients infrastructure for larger contracts in this market.
to a new data centre offering Focus on securing a position as a Significant wins in the Scottish further improvement performance and stability major provider in the document education market mean we are now to critical systems.
the leading provider of student record Opened new state-of-the-art software in the FE sector in Scotland.
Clients are looking to integrate their print facility in Mansfield on time and inbound and outbound operations below budget.
Resulted in transfer of and considering the benefits of existing local government business from outsourcing, leading to a significant competitor.
Technology adoption will growth in the document management enable the consolidation of our print outsourcing market.
Capita plc 62 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Property & Infrastructure Property & Infrastructure houses all our property consultancy, design and infrastructure practices and our local government regional partnerships.
2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities After several years of challenging Recruiting and retaining the best 2014 2013 trading conditions, 2014 has been people in an improving market to a positive year for our Property & deliver on new three-year plan Revenue 328.8m 277.3m Infrastructure business.
Many core as the market growth and skills markets have returned to some measure shortage remain.
Underlying 26.9m 15.7m of growth, and organisational changes operating profit Positioning Capita as a implemented during 2013 have brought transformational partner across all Underlying stability and a stronger commercial focus 8.2% 5.7% operating margin its sectors with the ability to deliver to our business.
long term value for customers and Returned to a top five ranking generating increasing revenues.
Capex 3.2m 1.5m amongst UK multidisciplinary consultancies Top 250 Consultants Deliver strong growth in all our core File, Building, October 2014. market sectors and open up newer Business development highlights: Capitas Property & Infrastructure markets such as nuclear and utilities.
Secured major sales wins, including business has become the first company a 10-year strategic business partnership Remain responsive and flexible to in the world to be accredited to deliver with the Defence Infrastructure any new priorities and decisions on the British Safety Councils Five Star Organisation DIO.
current areas of planned infrastructure Occupational Health and Safety Audit.
Entered new growth markets investment and strategy that a new Implemented a sales transformation through the acquisition of Projen, Government may introduce.
programme to optimise the performance providing a wide range of design, of sales, marketing and account engineering and management services management operations.
in the pharmaceutical, oil and gas, Made senior management manufacturing and bio energy markets.
appointments to strengthen our Launched a new Capita Health health operations and corporate Partners offering integrating the NHS development function.
and wider healthcare expertise of three We now have the structure and leading Capita businesses to design people in place to deliver a new and deliver innovative and enabling three-year strategy for growth.
services for healthcare providers and commissioners.
Secured a unique, revolutionary strategic partnership deal with leading housing service provider Genesis Housing Association to provide all of its professional and strategic consultancy support.
Appointed by the Mayor of London as the support team for the Greater London Authoritys retrofitting programme to make over 175,000 London homes across the capital more energy efficient, saving 93,000 tonnes of CO2.
Capita plc 63 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Property & Infrastructure IT Services Property & Infrastructure houses all our property consultancy, design and This division comprises our data, applications and enterprise services, IT managed infrastructure practices and our local government regional partnerships.
services, IT solutions as well as a number of large public sector IT contracts.
2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities 2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities After several years of challenging Recruiting and retaining the best Won or extended existing multi-year Capitalise on the breadth of our 2014 2013 2014 2013 trading conditions, 2014 has been people in an improving market to contracts with a large number of clients industry leading capabilities and a positive year for our Property & deliver on new three-year plan in the public and private sector in all lines offerings by driving further organic Revenue 328.8m 277.3m Revenue 483.7m 457.6m Infrastructure business.
Many core as the market growth and skills of business.
growth in an improving market for markets have returned to some measure shortage remain.
Capita Managed IT Solutions is Underlying Underlying 26.9m 15.7m 38.0m 25.0m of growth, and organisational changes operating profit operating profit providing schools with software to help Positioning Capita as a Relentlessly pursue further implemented during 2013 have brought pupils learn computer programming transformational partner across all improvements in service excellence.
Underlying Underlying stability and a stronger commercial focus skills.
The software, Computer 8.2% 5.7% 7.9% 5.5% operating margin its sectors with the ability to deliver operating margin to our business.
Programming Environment CPE will Maintain control and discipline to long term value for customers and Returned to a top five ranking give students and teachers access to a continue to drive operating margins generating increasing revenues.
Capex 3.2m 1.5m Capex 34.5m 22.9m amongst UK multidisciplinary range of programming tools, helping upwards in line with the improvements consultancies Top 250 Consultants schools introduce computational Deliver strong growth in all our core achieved in 2014.
File, Building, October 2014. thinking, coding and algorithms into market sectors and open up newer Business development highlights: Business development highlights: the curriculum.
Extend our world class platform Capitas Property & Infrastructure markets such as nuclear and utilities.
Secured major sales wins, including Won the Scottish Wide Area offerings built on top of our business has become the first company Commenced implementation of our a 10-year strategic business partnership Network SWAN contract to deliver Remain responsive and flexible to cloud services.
in the world to be accredited to deliver SWAN contract, including connecting with the Defence Infrastructure network connectivity and other ICT any new priorities and decisions on the British Safety Councils Five Star 1,500 sites and construction of a core Organisation DIO.
services across the entire public sector Maximise our position in network current areas of planned infrastructure Occupational Health and Safety Audit.
integration and services achieved Entered new growth markets investment and strategy that a new Implemented a sales transformation Continued to successfully drive through contract awards in 2014 and through the acquisition of Projen, Government may introduce.
Extended and expanded our strategic programme to optimise the performance material improvement in the quality the acquisition of Updata.
providing a wide range of design, relationship with BAE Systems delivering of sales, marketing and account of service performance and on-time engineering and management services critical IT services and projects to the management operations.
Continue to look for acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, oil and gas, Submarines Division.
and investment opportunities that Made senior management manufacturing and bio energy markets.
Acquired Updata, the leading provider can extend our offerings or enhance appointments to strengthen our Launched a new Capita Health of network managed services primarily our capabilities.
health operations and corporate Partners offering integrating the NHS focused on the public sector.
and wider healthcare expertise of three Continued the growth in our We now have the structure and leading Capita businesses to design Technology Solutions business by people in place to deliver a new and deliver innovative and enabling securing new clients across a wide range three-year strategy for growth.
services for healthcare providers of industry sectors and broadened our and commissioners.
offerings in IT security, through the Secured a unique, revolutionary acquisitions of NTS, and, in storage strategic partnership deal with leading and analytics, by acquiring Solid State housing service provider Genesis Solutions S3.
Housing Association to provide Successfully launched a range of all of its professional and strategic cloud and platform services including consultancy support.
Capita Private Cloud, Capita Productivity Appointed by the Mayor of London as Hub and Connectivity plus to provide the support team for the Greater London secure UK hosted utility ICT services Authoritys retrofitting programme all of which have had successful client to make over 175,000 London homes take-up.
across the capital more energy efficient, saving 93,000 tonnes of CO2.
Capita plc 64 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Health & Wellbeing This division is made up of all our health businesses servicing clients across the public and private sectors.
A change of structure in 2015 will more closely align our offering to our customer base, recognising the diversity of businesses in this division.
2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities The overall health market remained Following a refocus around our clients 2014 2013 quiet throughout 2014 but became more and recognising the diverse services active at the end of the year.
in this division, the operations will be Revenue 158.8m 162.8m re-allocated to other divisions to sit The Personal Independence alongside complementary businesses Payments plans contract has achieved Underlying 15.3m 21.8m and contracts.
operating profit its milestones but initial difficulties in delivering longer assessments and lower Our priority for major deals in the Underlying initial volumes of assessments has had a 9.6% 13.4% operating margin health sector in 2015 will be to address financial impact.
the opportunities within the NHS and Healthcare Decisions has created a Department of Health.
Capex 1.7m 26.8m new patient relationship management software solution Salus built on Following the launch of Capita Health Microsoft Dynamics which will be piloted Partners, focus on growing our client Business development highlights: with a major insurance provider.
base and further expanding our service The Health Advisory business offering for healthcare providers Capita Healthcare Analytics: The delivered a highly successful and commissioners.
Cymbio acquisition has been integrated transformation programme with into the CHKS analytics business and the our strategic partner Sussex products and services offered fit neatly Community Trust.
with both our analytics and our health Continued the roll out of advisory businesses.
Both teams have Learning4Health, a blended learning built the Cymbio proposition into their programme for NHS staff across the own ranges and referred business into South West of England with over 85,000 their client base.
registered learners accessing 3,500 Medical Direct Group, together with online learning sessions structured its partner TNS-BMRB, was awarded the around care pathways.
The programme is prestigious UCL longitudinal research reducing education costs and supporting study Whitehall II.
Our partnership the delivery of frontline care.
with TNS-BMRB was also successful in Energy Medical services retained winning the National Survey for Health contracts with Chevron, and Petrofac.
These two A consolidated contract was agreed with contracts are a clear demonstration of Wood Group PSN.
how the business has been able to build Capita Healthcare Analytics, offering on its existing capability and create a the market unique analytics and insight, service which has gained recognition secured national contracts with Monitor from one of the worlds most prestigious and the government of Northern Ireland.
Healthcare Decisions continued its Disposed of our corporate international growth by implementing occupational health business to a major new HealthLink service for the Medigold, as it was recognised that this Province of British Columbia in Canada, was no longer a core service for Capita.
and signing a contract with Medibank to provide services in Australia.
Medical Direct Group saw growth in the health and social research market and successfully deployed a nurse screenings service infrastructure in the United Arab Emirates.
Capita plc 65 Strategic Strategic r report eport Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Health & Wellbeing Workplace Services This division is made up of all our health businesses servicing clients across the public This division houses our HR, resourcing and learning businesses, travel and events and and private sectors.
A change of structure in 2015 will more closely align our offering our AXELOS public sector subsidiary partnership.
to our customer base, recognising the diversity of businesses in this division.
2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities 2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities The overall health market remained Following a refocus around our clients A very positive first year for AXELOS, Continue the comprehensive business 2014 2013 2014 2013 quiet throughout 2014 but became more and recognising the diverse services our public sector subsidiary partnership change programme within RPP to active at the end of the year.
in this division, the operations will be with the Cabinet Office to promote deliver enhanced ways of working and Revenue 158.8m 162.8m Revenue 695.6m 566.0m re-allocated to other divisions to sit and grow Best Management Practice.
to leverage new technology platforms, The Personal Independence alongside complementary businesses As well as maintaining exam volume while maintaining recruiting volumes Payments plans contract has achieved Underlying Underlying 15.3m 21.8m 91.5m 73.5m and contracts.
sales across its core product portfolio, and service quality.
Further improve operating profit its milestones but initial difficulties in operating profit the business has established a global the candidate recruitment experience delivering longer assessments and lower Our priority for major deals in the Underlying Underlying partner programme and commenced the across all channels including further initial volumes of assessments has had a 9.6% 13.4% 13.2% 13.0% operating margin health sector in 2015 will be to address operating margin planning for the launch of new products mobile platforms.
the opportunities within the NHS and in 2015.
Healthcare Decisions has created a Department of Health.
Use our knowledge of recruitment, Capex 1.7m 26.8m Capex 11.0m 9.2m Continued to drive process change new patient relationship management learning and HR services to offer enhancements in Army recruiting software solution Salus built on Following the launch of Capita Health insight to companies to inform their through the Recruiting Partnering Microsoft Dynamics which will be piloted Partners, focus on growing our client recruitment and retention strategies.
Business development highlights: Business development highlights: Project RPP.
base and further expanding our service The Health Advisory business Successful roll out of Contingent offering for healthcare providers Migration of the HR and payroll Grow core product PRINCE2 and ITIL Capita Healthcare Analytics: The delivered a highly successful Labour One, a framework to deliver and commissioners.
services for London Borough of Barnet exam volumes in AXELOS alongside Cymbio acquisition has been integrated transformation programme with contractor resources into central to our Belfast Shared Service centre.
launching new products, including into the CHKS analytics business and the our strategic partner Sussex government and Arms Length Bodies.
Cyber Resilience Best Practice and products and services offered fit neatly Worked with public and private Community Trust.
Won multi-year contracts with Continuous Professional Development.
with both our analytics and our health sector customers to roll out an enhanced Continued the roll out of Network Rail for both their managed advisory businesses.
Both teams have HR finance BPO offering based on Learning4Health, a blended learning recruitment RPO and business Refine our HR Solutions offering built the Cymbio proposition into their our new technology platform and programme for NHS staff across the travel spend.
through building proprietary own ranges and referred business into service capability.
South West of England with over 85,000 capability in order to sell and Enhanced our recruitment services their client base.
Retention and growth of numerous registered learners accessing 3,500 deliver repeatable growth.
offering by acquiring Monarch Medical Direct Group, together with multi-year managed employment online learning sessions structured Education Recruitment.
its partner TNS-BMRB, was awarded the screening contracts through Delivery of a revised proposition in around care pathways.
The programme is Won a pre-employment screening prestigious UCL longitudinal research Security Watchdog.
the learning services space through reducing education costs and supporting contract to support John Lewis in our study Whitehall II.
Our partnership the focus on the specialist learning, the delivery of frontline care.
with TNS-BMRB was also successful in managed learning LPO and emerging Energy Medical services retained winning the National Survey for Health Started developing the Wider Public talent markets.
contracts with Chevron, and Petrofac.
These two Sector learning framework from February A consolidated contract was agreed with Deliver a suite of enhanced travel contracts are a clear demonstration of 2014.
To date we have signed up nearly Wood Group PSN.
technology tools and services to how the business has been able to build 100 organisations in local government, Capita Healthcare Analytics, offering support the business travel proposition.
on its existing capability and create a NHS, MoD, emergency services, and the market unique analytics and insight, service which has gained recognition public corporations including Sellafield secured national contracts with Monitor from one of the worlds most prestigious and Magnox.
A diverse range of training and the government of Northern Ireland.
solutions have been procured through Healthcare Decisions continued its our supplier management team from Disposed of our corporate international growth by implementing electronic warfare and driver training occupational health business to a major new HealthLink service for the through to major change programmes Medigold, as it was recognised that this Province of British Columbia in Canada, and executive coaching.
was no longer a core service for Capita.
and signing a contract with Medibank to Selected to deliver a customised provide services in Australia.
customer experience transformation Medical Direct Group saw growth in programme for TSB Bank via our Blue the health and social research market Sky team.
and successfully deployed a nurse screenings service infrastructure in the United Arab Emirates.
Capita plc 66 Strategic report Governance Accounts Strong leadership and robust processes continued Justice & Secure Services This division comprises our businesses servicing the police and emergency services market, custody and border services, our digital and gamification businesses, parking services, AMT-SYBEX, Fire Service College and our TfL and Electronic Monitoring contracts.
2014 summary: Operational developments & challenges: 2015 priorities We created an innovative simulation Innovation, digital transformation and 2014 2013 platform for the Fire Service College emerging technologies will continue to FSC, the BLUEHAWK solution, be key themes for the division in 2015.
Revenue 565.8m 411.4m developed by G2G3, allowing emergency Seek to develop and acquire new personnel to train in a realistic, yet safe Underlying disruptive technologies that will bring 77.2m 64.9m environment while being exposed to a operating profit operational benefits to new and range of different crisis situations.
Underlying G2G3s digital strengths in terms 13.6% 15.8% operating margin of innovation, game science and next AMT-SYBEX priorities are to support generation web platforms have been Ofgems gas settlement reform Capex 21.9m 15.2m introduced into a number of projects.
through alignment with project Nexus: Successfully completed a major IT delivering the next generation of transformation programme in Southwark our award-winning mobile platform Business development highlights: Council providing the foundation for Fieldreach: maximise opportunities Completed a number of acquisitions future service transformation.
from water competition: deliver to enhance our offerings & market packaged analytics offerings to support Seamlessly took over the Electronic diversification including: AMT-SYBEXs energy industry reform and delivering a Monitoring contract, delivering the innovative software and associated smart metering solution integrated to existing solution & services while in services for large organisations in the industry standards.
parallel developing our new solution that utility and transport sectors, Eclipse will see just one consistent service being Legals Case and Practice Solutions, Transport for London: Completion delivered across England & Wales.
Liberty Printings print solutions for of implementation programme for public authorities and private sector In the final stages of completing a Congestion Charging, Low Emission business, PageOne communications transformation programme for English Zone and Traffic Enforcement schemes business process automation solutions Heritage, and the successful launch of and smooth go-live of operations in and Retain Internationals workforce the new Stonehenge visitors centre.
Commenced implementation of Complete the new hi tech solution Created ControlWorks, a Congestion Charging, Low Emission for Electronic Monitoring that will next generation command and Zone and Traffic Enforcement Notice monitor all individuals placed on control solution for the emergency Processing schemes on behalf of TfL a tag, providing key agencies with services market and won our first and early take-on of services.
valuable up-to-date information to ControlWorks contract with Derbyshire The loss of the Disclosure & drive greater compliance amongst Police and a key public national Barring Service contract and the initial offenders.
Introduce the latest infrastructure organisation.
implementation costs of the Electronic hand-held technology to ensure our Won a contract with the Metropolitan Monitoring contract impacted margins field-force can monitor all individuals Police Control Room Futures programme in the year.
appropriately 24 7. a partnership with Lockheed Martin a key strategic programme for the UKs We will continue to expand our parking largest police force.
and enforcement proposition into new market segments.
On behalf of the Board: Andy Parker Gordon Hurst Chief Executive Group Finance Director 25 February 2015
