18 Our Customers Our purpose is to serve customers well and we have moved from seven divisions to three customer businesses, so we can better deliver on this.
Each of our businesses share the RBS ambition: to be number one for customer service, trust and advocacy.
We have made a number of customer commitments marking our intent to deliver better service to our customers.
RBS is making steady progress towards building a simpler, smaller and fairer bank, and remains focused on delivering the commitments for personal and business customers that we announced on 27 February 2014.
We will stop offering deals to new By the end of 2014 we will cut in half the By the end of 2014, customers will have customers that we are not prepared to offer number of personal and SME products access to Mobile Banking and Online to our existing customers.
Progress: Progress: Progress: We now offer our best rates to new and We have reduced the number of Personal All Personal and Business Banking customers existing customers across our product and SME products on offer by 50%.
now have access to online banking by the next range.
There is now no Personal Banking or We are becoming a smaller, simpler bank to working day.
Existing customers with a debit Business Banking deal that is not available to do business with.
card now have access to mobile banking the existing customers.
We will improve the clarity of our language We will also ban teaser rates, including to customers.
By the end of 2014 we will We will put Business Bankers back on zero per cent balance transfers in our be able to explain all of our personal and the high street.
We will have hundreds of credit card business.
SME charges on one side of A4.
Business Bankers help small business people open accounts, apply for loans and Progress: Progress: get the help they need.
We have banned teaser rates.
We run a fair Fees and charges are explained on one side Progress: and transparent credit card business for of A4 for both our personal and business 82% of Business Banking frontline staff are our customers.
customers and will be communicated via our immediately above next to our branches.
This internet sites by the end of February 2015. equates to 1,335 Business Banking specialists We have a duty to our customers to provide a We will stop offering different rates to in branch today.
We are simplifying processes straightforward breakdown of all charges.
customers who apply online, in branch or so that Business Bankers can spend more by phoning our call centres.
time with customers, providing help and We will speed up our account opening advice in branch or via telephone.
Progress: process for personal customers.
We will Across our RBS and NatWest brands, pricing cut how long it takes to open a personal is consistent.
current account from five days to next day.
We will start making small business lending decisions in five days.
Progress: We will use simple language in our All customers applying for a personal current Progress: customer letters, on our websites and account who have the required ID and pass We are processing lending decisions quicker.
our fraud and credit checks can now open In almost all cases, lending decisions are their account the next working day.
Progress: made and communicated to the customer in Customer letters and emails have been five days or less with two-thirds of business simplified for our personal and business lending decisions made locally and or by We will also improve the process to open customers so they are straightforward and sector specialists.
a personal current account online so transparent.
We have reduced the number customers can upload their identification, of pages on our personal banking website such as their passport, and open their by over 60%.
In branches we have fewer, entire account from home.
shorter brochures making it easier for customers to find information.
Progress: All customers applying for a personal current account who have the required ID and pass our fraud and credit checks can complete their application online and where required, are able to upload key ID documents from home.
19 Business model and strategy Independent Lending Review actions In 2013, RBS and NatWest launched an Independent Lending Review, led by Sir Andrew Large and management consultants Oliver Wyman.
The aim of the review was to identify steps we could take to enhance our support for SMEs.
We committed to act and report on the recommendations.
The bank will write to thousands more RBS will continue to invest in building road, resulting in faster lending decisions, SMEs setting out clearly how much it is the capability of its people with at least declining complaints volumes and reshaping willing to lend to their business.
90% of Relationship Managers and Credit the objectives of our people.
Progress: By the end of December 2014, more than Progress: Customer experience targets will be set for 350,000 pro-active Statements of Appetite RBS has a milestone plan to achieve this by all staff.
had been issued to SME customers, offering the end of 2016.
We met our 2014 target with Progress: in excess of 12.4 billion of new or additional 20% of Relationship Managers and Credit Staff objectives are focussed on providing funding.
Objectives for 2015 have been shared with all staff and include measures to ensure we are A dedicated website will be developed to RBS will start a programme to make all providing good customer outcomes.
show clearly what information RBS use customers whose loan applications are to make a lending decision and set out declined aware of the appeals process, simple, clear steps in its lending process.
and will continue to work with the SME complaints are to be reduced by 50% Independent Appeals Chair to improve Progress: the support it provides to customers Progress: The website has been developed and can going though this process.
We have a milestone plan to achieve these be found at www.
Guidance is provided to support you Progress: achieved our reduction target in 2014 with in making a successful application and the A website has been developed and can be final quarter complaint volumes 22% lower types of information used to make a decision.
than average quarterly volumes in 2013 The section titled Decision explains how to by starting to simplify our processes and appeal and alternative financing options.
empowering our staff to make more decisions The bank will begin work to enable at first point of contact with our customers.
bankers to make all but the most complex lending decisions in just five days of The bank will commit to pointing receipt of all necessary information.
businesses to alternative sources of None of the banks services will be finance where it cannot support a loan conditional on customers buying another Progress: application.
product or service with the bank.
In almost all cases, lending decisions are made and communicated to the customer in Progress: Progress: five days or less.
In January 2015 RBS announced it is set As at February 2015, none of our SME to give SMEs greater access to finance by products or services are conditional on formally referring customers to both Funding customers buying another of the Banks Circle and Assetz Capital, two alternative RBS will ensure two thirds of its lending products or services.
decisions are made locally and by sector specialists.
The bank will publicly report on progress Progress: RBS aims to become the number one bank against these commitments annually.
Over two thirds of lending decisions are now for SME customer service in the UK.
Progress: made locally and by sector specialists.
Progress: We have reported our progress on www.
Our ambition is to be #1 for service, trust com.
We will continue to report progress on and advocacy.
We made commitments to actions, which are on-going through 2015. our customers in 2014 to help us on this
