38 Our ambition is to shape the communities we serve in a positive way.
We recognise that we still have a long way to go to achieve this position across our business.
Sustainability is therefore not just about the many responsibilities and obligations that RBS has, but about taking leadership on a broad range of issues that are important to our stakeholders.
Ross McEwan, Chief Executive meetings.
The work of the Committee is Committee runs its own programme of Sustainability essential to ensuring that our approach to structured stakeholder engagement sessions.
issues is managed effectively and debated In 2014, the Committee took part in six of at the appropriate level.
these stakeholder sessions which act as open Sustainability at RBS means building trust forums where advocacy groups and experts through long term thinking that focuses on our can discuss key areas of concern with the The Sustainable Banking Committee has customers and supporting the communities most senior decision-makers in RBS.
overseen a number of important developments in which they live.
We are committed to within RBS since it was established in 2010.
In being open and transparent regarding the We will continue to host these sessions to 2014 the strategic direction of the Committee challenges faced by our business, so all our ensure that we understand our stakeholders was refocused under the themes of bank-wide stakeholders can see what we are doing to priorities.
For more information see the report reputation and trust, Serving Customers and become a more sustainable bank.
You can of the Committee Chairman on pages 71 Sustainability Emerging Issues.
For more read more about the issues raised here, as and 72. information see the report of the Committee well as about our wider sustainability agenda, Chairman on pages 71 and 72. at rbs.
External commitments RBS is a signatory to a number of voluntary Stakeholder engagement Governance sustainability commitments and standards.
Operating in a sustainable manner is about The sustainability programme at RBS is built We understand that implementing managing our business in a way that takes on a robust governance framework that commitments is an ongoing process, and we account of the impact of our activities on provides direction to our sustainability are continuously working to integrate these our stakeholders.
As such, we work with a priorities.
The Sustainable Banking Committee into how we run our business.
number of stakeholder groups to understand is a Group Board Committee and membership their views of our organisation, and this helps comprises three independent non-executive We are a member of the Equator Principle EP shape the way we do business.
The Committee is chaired by Association Steering Committee.
The EPs are company we have many stakeholders and we independent non-executive director a voluntary set of standards adopted by banks engage with them in a variety of ways, from Penny Hughes and attended by senior for determining, assessing and managing focus groups to meetings to online forums.
representatives from the customer-facing social and environmental responsibilities in These interactions inform decision making businesses as well as Human Resources, project financing and project related corporate and ultimately improve RBS.
Sustainability, Risk, Conduct and Regulatory loans.
We will not provide project finance Affairs, Communications and Marketing, where the borrower will not, or cannot, comply As part of our wider stakeholder engagement Corporate Services and Strategy.
The with these principles of socially responsible programme, the Sustainable Banking Chairman of the Board also regularly attends investment.
39 Sustainability Environmental impact table Assessment Parameters Baseline year 2011 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All entities and facilities either owned or under operational control th Emission factor data source DEFRA 2014, US Environmental Protection Agency eGRID 9 edition Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised edition 2004 Materiality threshold Materiality was set at group level at 5% Intensity ratio Emissions per full time employee FTE Independent assurance Limited assurance provided by Deloitte LLP over 2014 Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions.
Change Change 2011 to 2014 2013 vs GHG Emissions 2011 2012 2013 2014 % 2014 % 2 Total Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 61,114 63,809 61,758 52,277 -14% -15% 2 Total Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 576,422 509,572 451,476 437,152 -24% -3% 2 Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 637,536 573,381 513,234 489,429 -23% -5% 2 Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 CO e emissions per FTE tonnes 4.7 4.5 4.2 4.5 -5% 8% 2 Scope 3 CO e emissions from business travel tonnes 141,254 94,993 132,307 97,791 -31% -26% Emissions of ozone-depleting gases Emissions of ozone-depleting gases tonnes 2,447 9,611 4,758 4,710 93% -1% Incidents Total number of environment incidents, fines and 0 0 0 0 0 0 legal non-compliance Note on data: Reported figures for previous years have changed in some instances.
These changes are due to calculation methodology changes in line with carbon management best practice and emission factor changes as recommended by the GHG protocol.
Scope 1: Emissions from fluorinated gas loss and fuel combustion in RBS Scope 2: E missions from electricity, district heating premises vehicles and district cooling used in RBS premises We are also on the Steering Committee of the standards.
RBS has been included in a robust ESE policy framework, with sector UK United Nations Global Compact UNGC the FTSE4Good since it was launched specific policies relating to high risk sectors network.
The UNGC is the leading platform for 11 years ago.
including oil and gas, mining and metals and the development, implementation and forestry.
Data on client assessments against Transparency and disclosure disclosure of responsible policies and these policies is included in the main RBS At RBS, we have a long way to go to rebuild practices in the areas of: human rights, labour, Sustainability Report.
trust after everything that the company has environment and anti-corruption.
We are taking a very deliberate Progress also continues on reducing the Each year RBS receives ratings for its approach to be as open as possible about our environmental impacts of our operations.
environmental and social performance by business, including on-going challenges as Data to the end of 2014 showed we had external indices.
RBS has been included in well as progress.
We were therefore particularly achieved our 2011-2014 targets for energy the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index pleased in 2014 to have been ranked as 15% reduction, water 12% reduction and DJSI every year since its launch in 1999, the leading UK company in Transparency waste 10% reduction.
However we had not maintaining our best ever score of 82 for a Internationals report on transparency in yet met our objective of diverting 70% of our second year in 2014.
The DJSI ranks corporate reporting.
In this Strategic Report we waste away from landfill.
New 2020 targets are companies corporate sustainability present data on our GHG emissions, diversity to be announced in the forthcoming 2014 RBS performance, based on analysis of economic, and our approach to human rights.
environmental and social issues like corporate sustainability data is contained in our latest governance, risk management, branding and Sustainability Report and online at rbs.
CDP is an independent, investor-driven Managing our impact on the environment organisation which facilitates the We aim to be recognised as a leader measurement and disclosure of greenhouse among large global financial institutions in gas emissions for 2,500 organisations in over managing our own environmental impacts and 60 countries.
In 2014, RBS received a developing financial services that support disclosure score of 98% and a performance sustainable development.
The activities of RBS and those of our clients The FTSE4Good Index Series measures can present a number of Environmental, the performance of companies that meet Social and Ethical ESE risks and it is our globally recognised corporate responsibility responsibility to manage these risks.
We have 40 RBS in the Community We run a number of targeted programmes focussed on providing support to the communities where we operate.
In addition to this, we have a well established employee volunteering and giving programme in RBS.
As well as supporting local causes in our areas of operation and topping up employee fundraising, we also support volunteering during work time.
Diversity at RBS As at 31 December 2014, of our global respecting human rights.
We conduct regular The banks ambition is to be number one for population of 110,027 employees, 50,816 consultations with employees on key aspects customer service, trust and advocacy in every 46% were male and 59,211 54% female.
of their working environment, and operate one of our chosen business areas, supported There were 762 senior managers, which a confidential helpline facility that allows by a people commitment to make RBS a great comprises our executive employee population employees to discuss any matter of concern place to work.
Valuing difference is therefore and individuals who are directors of our with regards to their wellbeing.
essential for our customers and colleagues.
subsidiaries, of whom 637 84% were male Our inclusion policy standard applies to all our and 125 16% female.
The RBS Board of Our Sustainable Procurement Code sets out people globally: and our strategy for diversity directors has ten members, consisting of our expectations of the companies that we and inclusion sits with the RBS Board and seven male and three female directors.
It clearly states that our suppliers Executive Committee.
should not engage in breaches of human Our approach to Human Rights rights or labour rights, or in discrimination.
Our approach during 2014 15 focuses RBS recognises our corporate responsibility We are also committed to equal opportunities on building inclusion into all stages of the to respect and uphold human rights.
We for suppliers, and we recognise that diversity employee lifecycle.
In 2014 we started rolling regularly review our policies and procedures strengthens our supply chain.
out bank-wide unconscious bias learning for to ensure that we avoid infringing on the all employees, which will continue across human rights of others throughout our sphere Our ESE Risk policies include sector-specific 2015.
Weve introduced a gender target to of influence.
We also participated in projects human rights risk screenings and are increase the number of women in senior roles with our peers through the Thun Group and regularly reviewed and updated to ensure across the bank.
And we continue to support UNEP FI to better understand and implement best practice.
We conduct due diligence on our employee-led networks, with membership the human rights responsibilities of banks clients relating to human rights standards, and across the bank at over 15,000 people.
as defined by the UN Guiding Principles on expect our clients to share our commitment Business and Human Rights.
to respecting human rights within their This year RBS has been recognised for its operations.
In all sectors, we will not provide work on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion We have adopted and contributed to a number financial services to companies involved in by retaining our Platinum ranking from of internationally accepted codes, notably harmful child labour or forced labour.
In 2014, Opportunity Now gender for the second the Equator Principles and the UN Global we continued to strengthen human rights due year: increasing our ranking from Silver to Compact, which specifically address the diligence in our ESE policies as well as public Gold for Race for Opportunity race : retaining management of human rights issues.
disclosure on the details of these policies.
a position in the Times Top 50 Employers for They can be seen at rbs.
Women for the eighth consecutive year: and The RBS Code of Conduct Our Code sets improving upon our ranking in the Stonewall out the standards we expect our people to Workplace Equality Index LGBT.
work to, including a clear commitment to 41 Sustainability Partnership Case Study Accelerate for growth Over the next two years well be building on our successful partnership with Entrepreneurial Spark and increasing our support for entrepreneurs.
Were backing eight new business accelerator hubs in locations like Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Leeds, Manchester and Belfast.
Each hub will offer workspace, hands-on mentoring, start-up boot camps and a free 18 month programme including advice, support and funding clinics.
The hubs will have physical work spaces for up to 80 entrepreneurs and host two intakes each year, with a graduation event bringing together entrepreneurs, investors and business advisors at the end of each programme.
Entrepreneurs from any sector will be able to join the hub, creating valuable network building opportunities.
Each business will also have the opportunity to pitch to potential investors and apply for growth awards of up to 50,000.
The aim is to help ambitious entrepreneurs take their businesses to the next level, supporting them to create jobs and growth, boosting the UK economy.
