42 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Globally we have seen more annual Corporate weather-related catastrophes in the past few years than in the previous 30 extreme weather events are expected responsibility to be more frequent and more severe in the future.
Helping people, businesses and communities cope with extreme storms will be increasingly important to our business.
OUR RESPONSE We take action to support the transition to an environmentally sustainable world by helping our customers respond to Our Corporate Responsibility CR strategy changing risks and promoting new addresses the companys most material ways of working that save energy and resources and create less waste.
Our approach is based on our commitment to making OUR PROGRESS 2014 TARGET: 2018 a positive impact on society, with our On target: Reduce our carbon emissions by 20% per employee customers, employees, and partners.
On target: Support customers through the development of products and services that help them respond to changing environmental risks and opportunities In addition to responding to high levels of weather-related claims this year, we As a leading company in the business Our recovery plan has changed the have taken proactive measures to help of risk and protection, we have a shape of our business and challenged customers increase their resilience to responsibility and a commercial our ability to meet some of the extreme weather events, including imperative to help our customers long-term targets we set in 2013. weather warnings and advice using and society as a whole, manage the We may therefore not make quite digital communications.
implications of a changing climate as much progress as we envisaged and demographic, and social trends.
We will reassess development of the renewable energy This presents us with both the appropriateness of our longsector.
We insure the manufacture opportunities and risks.
term targets at the end of 2015. of more than 25% of all wind turbines In 2013, we developed and However, this does not change and provide cover to around 80% ou r co m m itm ent to addressing of the operational offshore wind strategy for CR, with associated the fundamental issues that impact farms.
Around the world we work with targets.
The approach responds to our customers and the communities industry and environmental groups to w e o p er ate i n. In 20 14, we m a fide promote renewables as a critical part of as most material to our business, the energy mix for a low-carbon future.
customers and other stakeholders, our goals and making a positive We have also made progress in reducing now and in the future.
Highlights are included the environmental impact of our on the issues and the materiality throughout this report and in operations.
The Group-wide focus on process can be found on the this section.
CR section of our website.
a lower carbon footprint in 2014, with a substantial reduction in business travel.
43 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FOR RSA INSURANCE GROUP TONNES OF CO e 2 SAFE, SECURE WORLD 2014 2013 Our products help make communities safer places to live, work and travel.
Scope 1 12,279 12,968 Motor insurance is a substantial part of 24,717 25,787 Scope 2 our business and we have a clear Scope 3 16,376 23,901 responsibility in making the worlds Total gross 53,372 62,656 roads safer.
The statistics are bleak: Gross tonnes CO e per FTE 2.4 2.6 more than a million people are killed in 2 Car bo n of fs et s U K a n d I reland 21,827 27,278 million injured.
Global road fatalities are Total net emissions 31,545 35,378 forecast to triple by 2030.
Notes: Group carbon dioxide equivalent emissions tonnes OUR RESPONSE Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions.
Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased We work to protect millions of people electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions around the world every day, helping Selected key social and environmental data for 2014 as indicated by the symbol has been independently assured by PwC under the ISAE 3000 standard.
For further information, please them to live safer, more secure lives.
refer to our reporting criteria and PwCs assurance opinion which can found on our Corporate Responsibility pages at www.
com rsagroup en  OUR PROGRESS 2014 TARGET: 2018 GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FOR 2014 On target: All countries in which RSA operates will be running at least one TONNES OF CO e 2 annual road-safety campaign Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 This year 13 countries ran major Canada 1,544 2,343 2,887 road-safety campaigns, with all Latin America 1,339 2,085 2,010 of our Core countries participating.
Scandinavia 871 2,046 3,743 These campaigns provide road-safety UK and Ireland 5,579 11,059 5,190 advice to millions of people.
Notes: This assessment has been carried out in accordance with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institutes WBCSD WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol: a Corporate THRIVING Accounting and Reporting Standard, together with the latest emission factors from recognised public sources including, but not limited to, Defra, the International Energy Agency, the US Energy COMMUNITIES Information Association, the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental panel Our customers and our businesses on Climate Change.
prosper when they are part of thriving communities.
We look to create positive social impact wherever we do business.
During 2014, we donated 1.1m to Our CR strategy is underpinned by Through our CR activity we are charitable causes and 6,691 employee our governance structure and policy concentrating on a double challenge volunteering hours.
Ultimate responsibility common to many of our countries: rests with our Group Chief Executive More of our volunteering hours this youth unemployment, and the need and our CR Committee.
Our CR policies year were directed towards skillsto develop the enterprise skills vital cover Environment, Community and sharing opportunities, focused on for economic growth.
Charity, and Human Rights risks.
They education, employability and enterprise.
form part of our wider risk framework, We believe that sharing the skills OUR RESPONSE with compliance reviewed by the Group that exist in the business will be more We use the experience of our staff Executive Committee and Group Board.
to provide practical support in the Our CR policy positions can be read on communities.
The feedback from staff development of employability the CR section of our website.
Our key who have participated in these activities skills among young people in our has been positive: 90% of RSA communities.
We support the by external auditors.
More detail on volunteers agreed or strongly agreed development of social enterprise how we report can be found on the they had developed their own skills through business mentoring and enable CR section of our website.
following an employability workshop: our staff to support causes they are 100% of RSA volunteers agreed or passionate about, providing matched strongly agreed that they would funds and time off for volunteering.
recommend this type of volunteering OUR PROGRESS 2014 TARGET: 2018 opportunity to colleagues.
Behind target: we will double our annual community For further detail regarding our Corporate contribution Responsibility strategy, visit us online at: rsagroup.
