RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT to improve the diversity of our workforce including our global Our people, female sponsorship programme, female networking events and mentoring programmes, enhanced our culture the increased intake of women on our global talent programmes are starting to pay off and build foundations for the future.
DEVELOPMENT Despite the challenges and desire to reduce expenses, we have continued to focus on the development of our In 2014, we continued to put our strong levels leadership development programmes and now have world-class externally of employee engagement to the test.
Our people recognised programmes in place reacted quickly and rose to the challenges we to support the development of our people globally at all levels: faced by continuing to support our customers when they needed us.
Programme EDP focuses on increasing the leadership capabilities of senior employees regarded as having the potential to be among the future top leadership of the Group.
The Senior Talent Acceleration STA Programme designed to enable high-potential leaders to make the Our people have continued to work We have also continued to work transition to senior and executive hard to meet the challenging deadlines closely with our Union partners around leadership roles.
set following the business review the world and have consulted fully The Fast Track Programme is styled o n all ch a ng es.
on a Mini-MBA to support our the necessary changes required The Group has maintained its emerging talent to accelerate their and responded well to all the new commitment to foster an environment careers in RSA.
policies we have implemented, where diversity is embraced and while endeavouring to improve the As a result of our commitment to customer experience and increase developing our people, we have been to strengthening our pipeline of able to retain our critical talent during women in senior leadership positions.
what has been a period of change and OUR PEOPLE uncertainty across the Group.
During As a result of business disposals and actions to reduce our expense base, our permanent full-time equivalent FTE employees across the Group reduced NUMBER OF FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES AT THE END OF 2014 Percentage Once we have completed our disposals Country No.
of FTEs of Group total we anticipate that FTE across the UK group will reduce to around 17,000.
Ireland This period of change and uncertainty Scandinavia 19 Canada 19 have maintained our commitment to be Latin America open, honest and to communicate early about any changes that impact them.
Emerging Markets Group Corporate Centre 1 Other this year we have placed greater importance on creating an internal environment where peoples voices are heard, by introducing a number of new platforms for them to use.
We have introduced a new annual employee survey called Yoursay, which gives people an opportunity to shout out about the things they want to improve or change.
We have had over and this will provide us with valuable insight for the year ahead and the improvements we can make.
We have introduced Yammer 1 FEMALE REPRESENTATION THROUGHOUT THE COMPANY an internal social enterprise network within the UK as a place where people can connect openly and honestly to Board Senior management BOARD SENIOR MANAGEMENT of people have registered and we 2013 20% 2 2013 28% 259 have, on average, 10,000 comments 2014 22% 2 2014 28% 284 posted every month.
Our plans are to roll-out Yammer to all of our Group Exec Total group GROUP EXECUTIVE TOTAL GROUP We have strengthened our culture by 2013 16% 2 2013 52% 12,132 introducing an award-winning Culture 2014 17% 2 2014 49% 10,655 Risk Index and Assessment across the world, which helps leaders and HR 1 Based on total Group headcount teams to identify and manage cultural health and identify potential issues around culture that could lead to a 63% 26% 48% failure of ethics, controls or governance In 2014, 63% of Of the 42 participants Our 2014 Fast Track before they occur.
our senior executive who completed the cohort has seen 48% We continue to embed our customer 2 0 14 ST A pr og ramme, of its members secure obsession and the expectations of our internal candidates.
26% have already moved promotion or moves people that support this, by ensuring its into new roles within into new roles within integral to every aspect of the employee the organisation.
Our obsession for customers guides our decision-making and this focus is underpinned by robust performance management processes.
All employees are set clear annual goals the what as well as having to live up to our expectations of employee W e h av e a ls o fo cu se d on b uil di ng o ur behaviour the how.
either high performers or people with skills and expertise in new areas such We believe we can create competitive high growth or growth potential to as our Digital and Telematics Centres advantage by building and maintaining o f E xc e lle nc e. T his is a lre ad y yi eld in g a customer-centric culture that is st ro ng r es ul ts.
open and transparent, where high We have continued to use our long performance is recognised and OUR CULTURE established and award-winning rewarded, and appropriate actions are At RSA, we have always encouraged Technical Academy to develop and taken to address underperformance.
an open and honest culture that fosters enhance our critical insurance skills trust and respect between our across the Group.
As a result we employees and between us and our continue to have some of the strongest customers, brokers and partners.
Given underwriting, pricing, actuarial and the business challenges we have faced, claims capability in our industry.
