Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is important to our sustainable, long-term success.
Our approach to CR At Schroders, our values of excellence, innovation, Total taxes by region Corporate income covers four areas: teamwork, passion and integrity provide a framework tax by region within which our business operates, ensuring that we do the right thing for our clients.
These values define our reputation, determine the behaviours we expect of our employees and are integral to everything that Marketplace we do.
Being transparent in our operations and reporting Encouraging and We look to build close relationships with all our supporting our CR stakeholders and our approach to corporate principles in the companies responsibility CR is built around four areas in which we invest marketplace, people, environment and community.
Philip Mallinckrodt, an executive Director, chairs UK 57% 2013: 49% UK 49% 2013: 32% our CR Committee to ensure that CR is addressed Europe 21% 2013: 27% Europe 21% 2013: 33% at the highest level.
Asia Pacic 18% 2013: 17% Asia Pacic 26% 2013: 26% People Americas 4% 2013: 7% Americas 4% 2013: 9% Developing and retaining Our economic contribution a deep pool of talent Schroders is committed to conducting its tax affairs in an open and transparent way.
In 2014, we paid Further information on corporate income tax can corporate income taxes of 106.2 million 2013: be found in our financial statements on page 98 93.9 million.
Payroll taxes for the year payable by and on our website at www.
We Environment Schroders were 59.4 million 2013: 63.8 million and are committed to complying with our tax obligations Minimising our irrecoverable indirect taxes were 17.4 million 2013: worldwide and to maintaining a good reputation with environmental footprint 14.4 million.
A regional breakdown of total taxes and tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
corporate income tax paid in 2014 is shown opposite.
We are a signatory of the Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks and comply with its requirements.
We also follow the Confederation of British Industrys Community Supporting the CBI tax principles for our UK business, which is communities in consistent with our approach internationally.
which we operate Our Values We strive for We work with We have Excellence Innovation Teamwork Passion Integrity We want to be the best at We have an entrepreneurial We work as one team to We share a deep rooted To deliver for our clients, what we do.
We intelligently deliver excellent client service.
belief in and enthusiasm we build strong relationships strive for better.
challenge how things We value the contribution of for what we do.
We based on honesty, trust are done and anticipate individuals and encourage demonstrate this through and confidentiality.
the dedication and energy we bring to our clients.
40 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information As one of the largest asset managers in Europe, we recognise that we deliver value to society by encouraging businesses to act responsibly.
Marketplace As one of the largest asset managers in Europe, on behalf of our clients.
Our ESG team tracks we take our stewardship responsibilities seriously.
long-term sustainability trends such as climate With 300.0 billion of assets under management, change, global population changes and changing we recognise that we have significant impact on, diets, and analyses the impact of these themes and can deliver value to, society.
Our approach to ESG We monitor the activities of the companies in which During 2014, our fund managers and analysts held Schroders has a marketwe invest and use our influence as a shareholder over 16,500 discussions with companies around leading capability for ESG to encourage these businesses to act responsibly.
issues such as strategy, management, governance analysis.
We integrate ESG and financial performance.
Over the year, 125 factors into financial analysis In 2014, our Environmental, Social and Governance specialist ESG engagements also took place.
as we recognise that many ESG team expanded to eight individuals, overseen of these factors can influence by the Global Head of Stewardship.
2014 saw an Our ESG policy outlines our approach to voting.
We the long-term financial performance of companies.
increased focus on joint research between the will engage and normally vote on any issue affecting Our ethical assets under specialist ESG team and Schroders investment the long-term sustainable value of a company in which management increased analysts and fund managers.
During the year, we voted on resolutions to 27.8 billion in 2014 at 5,616 company meetings.
We aim to vote at all 2013: 25.3 billion.
We believe that companies with good ESG company meetings where we have a shareholding management often perform better and deliver and will vote on all resolutions except where there superior returns over time.
Engaging with companies are onerous conditions attached to voting.
to understand how they approach ESG management is an integral part of our investment process.
Voting reports are provided quarterly to UK institutional clients and we also publish details of our voting record Corporate engagement allows us to understand the on our website.
This is done after a suitable period sustainable value of the companies in which we invest so the publication of our voting record does not unduly influence the outcome of discussions with the company.
We believe that effective engagement with Company resolutions voted on management should normally remain confidential % since publicity can frequently entrench positions 2012 90 rather than resolve issues.
2013 96 2014 97 Schroders is committed to the UK Stewardship Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in 2012.
Information about how we comply with the code can Group ethical AUM be found on our website www.
billion % Ethical screening is also becoming an increasingly 25 10 important area for our clients.
We have several 20 8 years of experience integrating ethical screening 15 6 into fund management, and our ethical assets under 10 4 management increased to 27.8 billion in 2014 2013: 5 2 25.3 billion.
Our strength in this area is evidenced 0 0 through the mandate win from Friends Life in 2014 to 2011 2012 2013 2014 manage its Stewardship funds, the UKs oldest range of ethical funds.
Ethical AUM As a % of Group AUM Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Corporate responsibility continued The diversity of our people around the world is a key strength and helps us gain a deep understanding of our clients needs.
People Identifying, retaining and developing a deep pool Our policy is to give fair consideration to all of talent is a key part of our strategy.
employment applications, including from disabled people, considering particular aptitudes and abilities.
Good communication is essential to ensure that If employees become disabled, employment continues employees are engaged and committed to Schroders wherever possible, with retraining given if necessary.
We communicate regularly For the purposes of training, career development Investment 2020 through a variety of channels, including management and progression, all employees are treated equally.
Schroders supports the briefings, an in-house magazine and TV channel, and Investment 2020 programme online news articles.
Employees have access to a The Group is committed to creating a work that provides opportunities for range of learning and development programmes in environment free of harassment and bullying, school leavers and graduates order to maintain and increase technical competence where everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
As part in their roles, with the aim of aligning their behaviours We have a policy in place to assist in treating of this programme, we with our corporate values.
everyone fairly regardless of their age, gender, race, recruited across Distribution, Wealth Management and sexual orientation, disability, religion or beliefs.
Nichola Annual employee meetings are held with senior effectiveness of this policy is monitored periodically.
Pease, a non-executive management to discuss the progress made by the Director of the Group, is Group.
In the UK, an Employee Forum provides an Human rights chairman of Investment 2020. additional channel for representing employee views We comply fully with appropriate human rights to management.
legislation in the countries in which we operate.
Our business is undertaken predominantly in countries that Competitive remuneration is key to retaining and have strong legislation in this area.
We also encourage attracting talented people.
Our approach is explained our business partners to adopt the same standards.
in the Remuneration report on page 64.
Managing diversity High ethical standards We promote high ethical standards and have an We take a proactive and coordinated approach internal whistleblowing policy, whereby employees to attracting, retaining and developing a diverse can raise concerns about behaviour or decisions workforce.
Schroders is highly diverse in terms that could indicate potential wrongdoing.
Personal of the nationalities employed in our local offices securities trading by employees is subject to clearly globally.
This is a key strength that provides us with defined internal policies.
local market knowledge and a deep understanding of our clients needs.
Employees are not permitted to solicit or accept any inducements that are likely to conflict with their Appointments to roles are based on merit, experience duties.
Training is provided in relation to anti-bribery, and performance and we do not support quotas.
The anti-money laundering, terrorist finance, market gender diversity within the Group is shown below.
integrity, data protection and treating customers fairly.
Gender diversity Equal opportunities 2014 2013 Female Male We are committed to providing equal employment Directors 1 1 11 10 opportunities and avoiding unlawful discrimination.
Senior managers 167 138 459 426 We expect our workforce to reflect the diversity of Subsidiary directors 9 11 26 52 the many communities in which we operate.
Where Total senior management 176 149 485 478 possible, we monitor the ethnicity, age and gender All employees 1,473 1,487 2,083 2,041 composition of our existing workforce and those 41% 42% 59% 58% applying for jobs.
42 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Our Human Resources team supports the business in attracting, retaining and developing a diverse workforce.
We expect our workforce to reflect the diversity of the many communities in which we operate and we employ people from more than 30 different countries worldwide.
Environment Community We are committed to minimising the environmental We support the communities in which we operate impact of our operations and to delivering continuous and encourage our employees to do the same.
improvement in our environmental performance.
In 2014, we donated 1.1 million 2013: 1.0 million to We use DEFRAs conversion factors each year to charitable causes around the world, which included calculate our CO e emissions for all office locations.
discretionary donations of 0.3 million to charities 2 London to Paris cycle The total CO e emissions data is consistent with our involved with social welfare.
2 Our approach to charitable Carbon Disclosure Project submission which will be giving focuses on employee externally verified later this year.
Payroll giving is encouraged by Schroders and we choice.
We support and match up to 2,400 of donations per employee each encourage employees to raise Our total recorded carbon output has increased year.
We are increasing our discretionary matching money for the charities which by 18 per cent.
This increase reflects donations in 2015, as part of our continued focus on matter most to them.
In 2014, enhancements to the data capture methodology, as employee-led charitable giving.
14 employees from across the business cycled from London well as the full-year impact of our 2013 acquisitions to Paris in aid of Leukaemia and increased global mobility.
More information on We offer payroll-giving schemes in a number of our & Lymphoma Research.
other environmental performance can be found on international offices.
2013: 25 The team raised more than our website www.
of employees donated in this way in 2014, 60,000 including matching and the firm made charitable matching donations of from Schroders.
For the third year running, of this achievement, they Total CO e emissions we received the Payroll Giving Quality Mark Platinum received the Corporate 2 tonnes Team of the Year Award Award from the Charities Aid Foundation which 2012 9,353 7,273 16,626 from the charity.
recognises our efforts in this area.
2013 7,656 7,025 14,681 2014 9,516 7,840 17,356 Employees in many of our offices can also take up to 15 hours of paid volunteering leave each year at a Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities gas, oil, all travel registered charity.
For volunteering which takes place Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased outside of working hours, we offer volunteer time for own use electricity only matching as a donation to the charity, up to 1,200 per employee, per year.
This underpins our focus on employee involvement in the community and CO e emissions per employee employee choice in charitable giving.
2 tonnes 2012 5.5 More information can be found on our website 2013 4.2 www.
2014 4.9 We are recipients of the We are a member of the We are included in the Dow We are included in the We are a member We participate in the Carbon We are an accredited Payroll Giving Quality Mark London Benchmarking Jones Sustainability Indices FTSE4GOOD Index series.
of Heart of the Citys Disclosure Project CDP London Living Wage Platinum Award.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Governance 44 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Board of Directors 46 Group Management Committee and Company Secretary 48 Corporate governance report 50 Directors report 63 Remuneration report 64 Statement of Directors responsibilities 77 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45
