Tried, tested, trusted Case studies The service delivery model has been designed to support the Next Generation Estates UK Governments objective of encouraging the use of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and our joint venture will use these contracts Contracts, UK Ministry to create further opportunities to demonstrate their commitment to the Armed Forces Corporate Covenant, which helps ex-service personnel find employment and supports the provision of Reservists.
of Defence The Defence Infrastructure Organisation set industry the challenge of In 2014, a Carillion joint venture won all five of the Next Generation providing added value to the military estate and the offers submitted Estates Contracts for which we bid to provide a wide range of hard by our joint venture have been recognised as generating considerable facilities and asset management services to the Defence Infrastructure benefits, including the use of market-leading customer feedback systems.
These contracts are initially for five years, but can be extended to 10 years, and are worth up to 4.5 billion to the joint venture and up to 2.5 billion to Carillion over 10 years.
We previously had two Prime contracts under which we provided hard facilities management services to the Defence Infrastructure Organisation.
Going forward, our joint venture will provide these services to around 85 per cent of the Ministry of Defence estate.
The new contracts include the National Prime Housing contract, which involves the provision of services for more than 49,000 military homes throughout the UK, and four Regional Prime contracts, namely Scotland and Northern Ireland, Central, South East and South West, which involve the provision of services to around 23,000 buildings across the UK.
In addition, as part of the South West contract, the joint venture will also provide a total facilities management service at the Defence Equipment and Support Procurement Organisation at Abbey Wood and the UK Hydrographic Office, including catering, cleaning and other soft facilities management services, in addition to hard services.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 22 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for patients and visitors, and buses will come onto the site, providing Royal Liverpool University better and easier access to the hospital.
There will be a dedicated cycle centre and ten electric car charging points.
The hospital will be one of the Hospital, Public Private greenest in the country, with renewable energy systems, low carbon technology, water meters and leak detection systems.
The project will also pave the way for a world-class Liverpool BioCampus on the site of Partnership project the current hospital, which will play a key part in transforming the area and regenerating the Knowledge Quarter of the City.
At the beginning of 2014, Carillion began construction of the 335 million Royal Liverpool University Hospital project for the Royal Liverpool and Construction of the new hospital is expected to contribute around Broadgreen University Hospitals NHS Trust, with construction due for 240 million to the local economy, creating the equivalent of some 750 completion by 2017.
Carillion will also invest 15.5 million of equity in full-time jobs during the construction period, with 60 per cent of these the project, from which we expect to generate around 200 million of jobs going to local people.
Carillion has also committed to source at revenue over the 30-year life of the concession contract, and we will least 60 per cent of materials locally.
15 per cent of the workforce will provide non-clinical support services that are expected to generate come from priority Council Wards in the City and 100 apprenticeships around 100 million of revenue over the same period.
The new hospital will provide a world-class facility designed to provide a whole new approach to healthcare and help the Trust tackle some the regions biggest health issues and improve the health and wealth of the City.
It is being built next to the existing hospital, which will be demolished once services have been transferred.
The new hospital will be the largest all single-bed hospital in the country with 646 beds, including a 40-bed Critical Care Unit, 18 operating theatres and one of the largest emergency departments in the North West.
It will also have an underground car park Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Tried, tested, trusted Case studies continued Phase 1 of the Dubai World Trade Centre Development involves the Dubai World construction of a 146,000 square metre development between the current Dubai International Convention and Exhibition Centre and Trade Centre Emirates Towers in the heart of the citys Central Business District.
This includes an eight-storey office building and a 588-room business and In October, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, tourism hotel.
The development will be designed to best-in-class quality announced that Carillion will be the first company to benefit from UK standards and will include international Grade A quality offices, which Export Finances UKEF new Direct Lending Facility DLF.
Carillion have achieved LEED Gold pre-certification from the US Green Building worked closely with UKEF in order to use the new DLF to secure a 75 Council the industry benchmark for green building performance million contract to deliver Phase 1 of the Dubai World Trade Centre covering design, construction, operations and maintenance.
The District development for the Dubai World Trade Centre.
technology solutions and infrastructure being planned align with the Dubai Governments Smart City strategic agenda.
Carillion had already developed a strong relationship with UKEF, which is helping us to use our sector-leading expertise and reputation for The Chancellor of the Exchequer commented: Its great to see quality, reliability and safety to win major contracts, having already successful companies like Carillion winning contracts around the world.
secured four such contracts in the Middle East and North Africa with This deal, the first in a pipeline of many, will help us reverse the age old the support of UKEFs Standard Buyer Credit Facility.
Under the Direct trend of not exporting enough, boosting growth and creating jobs.
Lending Facility, HM Treasury has made 3 billion available to support export finance that enables UKEF to provide funding at the Commercial Interest Reference Rate with partner banks arranging loans, which has further enhanced our ability to use our world-class skills to compete and win contracts in our international markets.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 24 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Being selected for Phase 1 of this prestigious project, which is one of Phase 1 Battersea Power the largest construction contracts to be awarded in recent history and which is scheduled for completion in 2016, reflects Carillions reputation Station Development for delivering high-quality, value for money projects.
Carillions sector-leading sustainability credentials, including our ability to create Carillion is now well advanced with Phase 1 of the 400 million new apprenticeships and jobs for local people, were key elements of redevelopment of Battersea Power Station, which it began in the second our offering that helped to differentiate Carillion from its competitors.
The Battersea Power Station development site is owned Battersea Power Station is the last central London regeneration project by a Malaysian consortium of S P Setia, Sime Darby Property and of its sort and over the course of the redevelopment it will generate Employees Provident Fund, with the development being managed 15,000 new jobs, 3,500 new homes as well as restoration of the by the Battersea Power Station Development Company.
The Phase 1 project, which forms part of a strategy to create a highdensity, mixed-use development around the restored former Grade II listed power station, is a mixed-use development comprising 866 apartments, together with retail facilities, theatre space, business studios and two levels of basement parking.
It is located within the area bounded by the old power station to the East, the main railway serving Victoria Station to the West and the River Thames to the North.
Extensive hard and soft landscaping is included in the Phase 1 works.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25
