Sustainability A key resource This section summarises our Sustainability 2020 strategy, our We view sustainability as performance in 2014 and the benefits this has for our business and for the communities in which we live and work.
It helps us Having a sustainable and responsible approach to business is central to our strategy for growth in the UK and internationally.
Carillions Sustainability to win and deliver profitable 2020 strategy aims to create positive legacies for communities, for environments and build public trust in Carillion as a leading sustainable work responsibly and business.
Now, more than ever, integrated and effective sustainability is all about making tomorrow a better place.
encourages collaboration Sustainability management and materiality review around innovation, Our sustainability governance ensures our operations, targets and plans are managed and delivered in a consistent, responsible and transparent safety, the efficient use of way.
Richard Howson, Carillions Chief Executive, is responsible to the Board for sustainability, while Chief Sustainability Officer, David Picton, resources and social value.
is accountable for sustainability across the Group.
A Board Sustainability Committee has been created, chaired by Dr Ceri Powell, a Carillion Increasingly, this is what Non-Executive Director, and will operate from the beginning of 2015.
This will provide oversight on behalf of the Board for priorities, targets our customers and society and challenges material to corporate reputation and sustainability management across the Group.
expect, which is why Our Board and Executive leadership teams are also advised by a Sustainability Advisory Committee, which includes directors from our we choose to operate to business units as well as two independent external advisers Dame Julia Cleverdon DCVO, CBE Vice President of Business in the Community and standards that go beyond Special Advisor to The Princes Charities and Jonathon Porritt Founder Director of Forum for the Future.
The work of these committees is underpinned by a rigorous set of policies, procedures and operational tracking processes to deliver business unit plans.
We also carried out a materiality review involving Our 2020 sustainability strategy nearly 400 internal and external stakeholders, which will help us to We continue to build an increasingly sustainable and successful continue shaping the focus of Carillions sustainability strategy over business by focusing on our six positive outcomes, which support the second half of this decade.
profitable, responsible growth and form the basis of our strategy.
Our 2014 Sustainability Report, which will be available on our Building a successful business corporate website in April 2015, will give details of the sustainability Through our sector leadership and focus on the contribution to profit issues relevant to our business, together with the progress we have from sustainable efficiencies, value creation and waste elimination, made against our targets and initiatives.
we are increasing shareholder value.
Highlights Building a successful business 27.2 million net contribution to profit through our Through our sector leadership and focus on the contributions sustainability strategy to profit from sustainable efficiencies, value creation and waste PwC Building Public Trust Award first FTSE company to elimination, we will increase shareholder value.
retain the FTSE 250 Sustainability Reporting Award for a second consecutive year Enabling low-carbon economies Our services will help Carillions customers work towards carbon neutrality, so together we become the lowest-carbon producers in our respective sectors.
Supporting sustainable communities Our leadership in creating employment and skills opportunities, coupled with our understanding of the needs of our communities, will help us to make a net positive contribution everywhere we work.
Leading the way in our sector We will be the benchmark in sustainability and innovation, in turn driving demand as the service provider of choice for customers.
Protecting the environment We will work with our customers and suppliers to be best-in-class in reducing waste, managing use of water and raw materials, and protecting biodiversity wherever we operate.
In 2014, Carillion received the FTSE 250 Sustainability Reporting Award in the PwC Building Public Trust Awards for a second consecutive year.
Providing better prospects for our people We will maximise the prospects of our people by offering opportunities for learning and development and create safe, healthy places to work.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The contribution of sustainability to Group profit is tracked by our businesses through a monthly reporting process, approved by each business unit finance director.
Contributions to profit are created through cost reductions derived from resource and process efficiencies, carbon reductions and operational innovations examples of which would include fuel, travel and waste management, lean operational excellence, contract efficiencies and material reuse.
We estimate these measures have delivered a net contribution to profit of 27.2 million in 2014, and we are on track to achieve our target of 40 million per annum by 2020.
This target is a personal performance measure, linked to remuneration, for our Chief Executive and for the Board.
Clear evidence emerged from analyst commentators in 2014 specifically linking sustainability with profitability and citing the importance of our sustainability credentials in customer relationships, with Cantor Fitzgerald and Liberum issuing Buy recommendations after attending the launch of our 2013 Sustainability Report at Battersea Power Station in May 2014.
Carillion Training Services continues to be a leading provider of Leading the way in our sector apprenticeships in the UK and in the academic year from August 2013 to We will be recognised as the benchmark in sustainability and innovation, July 2014, Carillion had a total of 1,630 apprenticeships and traineeships.
in turn driving demand as the service provider of choice for customers.
Highlights 6,783 global suppliers accredited to sustainability standards, Al Futtaim Carillion AFC has recently been accredited with the Dubai with 10 per cent performing at the highest A-grade level Chamber CSR Label, which recognises AFCs commitment to operating Funding Partner for the Supply Chain Sustainability School responsibly.
Accreditation followed an evaluation process focusing on Double winner of Business in the Communitys BITC Big Tick Awards workplace impacts, marketplace impacts, community impacts and for our Ready for Work initiative and our apprenticeships programme environmental impacts.
BITCs Sieff Award Winner was Carillion employee, Elena Gonzalez, recognising her contribution to next generation Providing better prospects for our people of sustainability leadership We will maximise the prospects of our people by offering opportunities Carillion continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good index, for continual learning and development, and create safe, healthy places which measures the performance of companies that meet globally to work.
recognised corporate responsibility Highlights Effective collaboration and innovation are key to our relationships with 17 per cent reduction in our Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate in 2014 customers, joint venture partners and supply chain partners.
This helps 14 per cent of employees utilise the Carillion special leave policy, which us to retain customers by managing risk, creating operational efficiencies enables them to engage in community and charity activities for up to together and helping to shape ground-breaking sustainability initiatives, six days a year on full pay such as the Supply Chain Sustainability School.
We work hard to create safe places to work, we encourage diversity In 2014, Carillion was the proud recipient of the FM Service Provider of across our employee and leadership populations and we strive to the Year award at the British Institute of Facilities Management Awards, provide excellent prospects for our people.
Carillion aims to foster a for our long-term contract with Centrica British Gas.
Carillion received working environment in which all employees are treated with courtesy, this award in recognition of excellence in a number of areas, especially dignity and respect.
We strive continually to eliminate all bias and employee training, customer service and the achievement of sustainability unlawful discrimination in relation to job applicants, employees, business targets.
Our ability to deliver an excellent customer service begins with partners and members of the public.
Employees who become disabled our Customer Experience Centre, which is located in Sheffield and deals are, wherever possible, retrained or provided with equipment that with all customer enquiries 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
enables them to continue their employment.
Carillon was also awarded the Investing in Integrity IiI Charter Mark Our target is zero accidents and zero ill-health caused, or made worse, in 2014, following a rigorous accreditation process by the Institute of by work.
In 2014, we also emphasised the importance of health as well Business Ethics.
The Charter Mark confirms that its recipients are as safety through launching our new Occupational Health strategy committed to acting with integrity at all times.
Health Like Safety, which aims to improve workplace wellbeing, reduce risk and respond better to serious health incidents.
In 2015, we aim to increase the percentage of our expenditure with UK suppliers that goes to local businesses to 60 per cent 2014: 51 per cent.
Carillion Training Services won the Education & Training Services Working with smaller local businesses generates employment, boosts Sector award at the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents local economies and helps us to engage with the communities in which Occupational Health & Safety Awards in 2014. we work.
In 2014, we exceeded the UK Governments target for its major suppliers to place 25 per cent of their external expenditure on Our Chief Executives Leadership Team CELT has adopted a Gender Government contracts with Small and Medium-sized Enterprises SMEs.
Pathways Strategy to attract, develop and retain more women in our business, as part of our gender diversity strategy.
Currently, 19 per cent Our Small Business Charter was launched in 2014, underlining our of our 96 most senior managers are female and 29 per cent of Directors commitment to working with our 3,172 accredited SMEs suppliers.
A on the Carillion plc Board are female.
Our objective is for 30 per cent of key feature of this is our Early Payment Facility EPF, which is now used all senior management positions to be occupied by females by 2020 and by 396 suppliers and through which we have made payments totalling the Gender Pathways Strategy has set detailed and grade-specific targets, 977.6 million in 2014. including making an additional 50 female leadership appointments, increasing female graduate intake to 50 per cent and increasing our female apprenticeships by five per cent, over the next five years.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Sustainability A key resource continued In 2014, Carillion Canada became a Patron Member of the Canadian In Cairo, Al Futtaim Carillion AFC supplied materials and power tools to Council of Aboriginal Businesses CCAB.
The CCAB is dedicated to build a classroom extension for the African Hope Learning Centre that will promoting Aboriginal communities within the Canadian economy.
provide more school places for African refugees.
In Dubai, AFC provided We have also become a signatory to the Progressive Aboriginal the scaffolding for a temporary shelter for 4,000 visitors to the Jebel Ali Relations PAR programme and we are major sponsors of a First Primary School when it held a school fete.
Our partnership with BITC remains very strong, with active support In 2014 we launched a website to encourage our people to volunteer for the Business Connectors programme in Burnley, Battersea and to work with their local communities and engage in charitable work, Wythenshawe.
We are also one of the UKs leading supporters of as part of our ongoing drive towards having 50 per cent of our people BITCs Ready for Work programme, supporting some of societys most using our six-day special leave programme by 2020. disadvantaged people to enter employment, and BITCs Women Into Work and Business Class programmes.
In 2014, 118 Ready for Work Supporting sustainable communities clients were offered a work placement with 82 per cent completing Our leadership in creating employment and skills opportunities, their placements and 64 clients gaining employment following a coupled with our understanding of the needs of our communities, work placement with Carillion.
Furthermore, 105 people from across will ensure we have a significant and net positive contribution Carillions businesses, a record for the Group, volunteered their time everywhere we work.
and skills to support Ready for Work clients.
Highlights Throughout 2014, the team on our support services contract for 96 per cent of our contracts have community needs plans in place Oxfordshire County Council has undertaken a series of activities, 87 per cent of our apprentices found employment or pursued which have made significant improvements to social sustainability further education within Oxfordshire.
This includes the appointment of over 40 long-term One per cent of our pre-tax profits were contributed to community unemployed people to help deliver the Universal Free School Meals activities in cash or through employee time Programme, organising a suppliers conference, with individual coaching sessions for local Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises, We believe we have a responsibility to create lasting social value and and mentoring members of the Armed Forces to help them understand positive legacies for the communities in which we live and work.
We seek to how their skills can be of value in gaining employment when they use our commitment and leadership to support community regeneration leave the Armed Forces.
and social value through creating opportunities for local suppliers as well as generating direct employment opportunities with Carillion.
Enabling low-carbon economies Our services will help Carillions customers work towards carbon This is especially evident in Liverpool, where we began construction of the neutrality, so together we become the lowest carbon producers in our Royal Liverpool Hospital in 2014.
Through this contract we are committed respective sectors.
to creating benefits for the local economy over the life of the contract, including seeking to fill 60 per cent of the jobs arising from the contract Highlights with local people and with up to 15 per cent of the workforce coming from In the 2014 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index we achieved a score priority council wards.
We will also create 100 apprenticeships, work of 99A, confirming Carillions place in the Global Climate A-List placements for local young people, deliver bespoke construction training 17 per cent reduction in our carbon footprint against our 2011 baseline for the unemployed and support Young Offenders in becoming skilled through the Construction Skills Certificate Scheme CSCS.
We have Carillion is committed to a long-term carbon policy and strategy, which also undertaken to make direct grant awards through the Liverpool measures direct carbon emissions and takes targeted action to reduce Community Fund a regeneration fund set up by Carillion to allocate them, not only in respect of our own carbon footprint, but across the 100,000 of funding to local community groups over the next three lifecycle of the built environment that we create and maintain.
In the first year of construction, we have so far allocated over 31,000 to 20 local community groups.
Carillion was awarded a climate performance A-grade in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP global ranking, achieving a near-perfect score of Carillion Training Services has been given a prestigious Big Tick award 99A in the Climate Disclosure and Performance Leadership Index, which by Business in the Community for our apprenticeships programme, recognised our commitment to reducing carbon emissions and to open, which included employing 61 apprentices.
In 2014, Carillion completed transparent carbon reporting.
We were one of only 187 companies that over 1,000 NVQs and apprenticeships, with more than 87 per cent of were awarded a climate performance A-grade in the Carbon Disclosure apprentices going on to find employment or pursue further education.
Projects global ranking of 2,000 publicly-listed companies.
This Index Our target is to have 100 per cent of our apprentices, who complete provides a tool for nearly 800 institutional investors and stakeholders their training, moving on into employment or further education.
to evaluate and track corporate efforts to mitigate climate change.
We continue to contribute one per cent of our pre-tax profit, in terms of direct monetary donations and employee time, to support charities and other good causes, which include a strategic partnership with Barnardos.
In 2014, we raised more than 95,000 for Barnardos alone, including 31,000 raised from a sponsored coast-to-coast cycle ride led by our Chief Executive, Richard Howson.
Through our Employee Nomination Fund, Carillion donated 80,000 to 160 charities each charity being nominated by our employees and receiving the equivalent of 500.
In Canada, since 2007 we have raised close to CA$ 1 million for the William Osler Foundation Fund, a charity associated with one of our health sector Public Private Partnership projects.
Encouraging our people to volunteer for community engagement enables them to experience the benefits of making a social contribution, with many forming lifelong commitments to specific charities or Carillion achieved a near perfect score in the Carbon Disclosure Project community groups.
Business in the Communitys BITC Give and Gain global ranking, confirming our place in the Global Climate List and Day, a campaign led by the Community Impact Leadership team that demonstrating our commitment to reducing carbon emissions and Richard Howson chairs on behalf of BITC, became a worldwide focus for to open and transparent reporting.
Over 1,150 Carillion volunteers the largest ever Carillion contribution committed over 3,000 hours of their time and skills to local charities and projects, across the UK, Canada and the Middle East.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Protecting the environment We will work with our customers and suppliers to be best-in-class in reducing waste, managing the use of water and raw materials, and protecting biodiversity wherever we operate.
Highlights 95 per cent of waste diverted from landfill 35 per cent of our global suppliers has responded positively to sourcing materials and products from responsible and ethical sources We actively manage and seek to reduce our impacts and costs arising in respect of waste, water usage and biodiversity through policies, action plans and monitoring and measuring our performance.
Our action plans apply to our own offices and to contracts across all our business, with our Environment Policy driving business unit plans and targets.
All our operations in the UK, Middle East and North Africa are certified to ISO 14001 international environmental standard, and Carillion Canadas Carillion has a strategic partnership with Barnardos for which we raised Roads Maintenance business in Ontario is also certified to ISO 14001. more than 95,000 in 2014, including 31,000 from a sponsored coastto-coast cycle ride led by Carillion Chief Executive, Richard Howson.
In 2014, Carillion became one of the first British businesses to sign up to WWF-UKs new forest campaign.
As a signatory to the campaign, we are committed to responsible forest trade and to sourcing 100 per cent of our timber and wood products from sustainable sources by 2020, Carillion is preparing for the introduction of Business Information having achieved 97 per cent to date.
Modelling BIM across Public Service Procurement in 2016.
This process is designed to create better, safer and more efficient ways of In 2014, we paid special attention to diverting waste from landfill and delivering buildings and will be a focus of activity for Carillion in 2015. thereby extending its lifecycle.
The new Police Headquarters in Niagara, Canada, produced excavated material that was re-used on site and In the UK, modular building design based on accommodation blocks has generated a saving of 500,000.
In Qatar we have saved thousands of been estimated to save 30 per cent of carbon produced during manufacture plastic bottles and transport miles by swapping the use of transported and construction and our EcoPod technology is reducing energy bills and bottled water for safety-tested mains water in Ras Laffan Industrial cutting carbon emissions in more than 40 high-rise buildings.
In the UK, 22.4 tonnes of food waste was sent for anaerobic digestion to produce energy and the re-use of site cabins Innovation is a key part of delivering low-carbon economies.
In Abu on the Royal Liverpool Hospital project have saved around 1 million.
Dhabi, on the Four Seasons Hotel project, our team used an innovative concrete mix to reduce carbon by 12,500 tonnes, saving 140,000 On a Carillion Rail contract based in Brighton, we achieved a wastewith no compromise on strength.
In Canada, our Energy Conservation to-landfill diversion rate of 99.7 per cent, with exemplary performance Assistance Programme has so far saved 219,000 by providing advice in respect of used timber that also made a significant contribution for low income families across 8,000 residences.
Used timber was sent to the Community Wood Recycling Project, a local not-for-profit enterprise providing In the table below, we report our Greenhouse Gas emissions GHG in employment and training to long-term unemployed and socially tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e from the sources required disadvantaged people.
On our contracts that form part of the Kings 2 under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Cross regeneration project for Argent, we saved 20 tonnes of used Regulations 2013.
We have used the Greenhouse Gas GHG reporting timber from going to landfill, again through a Community Wood protocol to calculate our GHG emissions for 2014, based on data Recycling Project.
The Kings Cross project also created seven work gathered to fulfil our requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency placements for homeless people under the Business Action on scheme and on emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Homelessness programme, three of whom are now working full time.
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
We have quoted figures for all sources whose costs are included in our consolidated Carillion has continued its strategic partnership with the UKs Wildlife financial statements.
We do not record fugitive emissions as these Trust organisations through our Natural Habitats Fund, which supports are not part of our core operations.
a variety of biodiversity projects with financial support and employee volunteering.
To date, the Fund has helped 72 essential habitat and The non-financial figures reported in the below table have been conservation work ventures, with over 435,000 of grants from reviewed by independent external assurance provider Bureau Veritas.
In 2014, we also became the first ever corporate partner of the For details of the scope of work and opinion on the accuracy of our Freshwater Habitats Trust, which focuses on promoting biodiversity, the stated performance, please see the full assurance statement in our 2014 creation of ponds and innovative eDNA testing for protected species Annual Sustainability Report, which will be published on our corporate in freshwater.
1 2014 2013 Emissions from CO2e tonnes CO2e tonnes Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 134,656 157,459 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 25,116 27,059 Transport, paper and others including electricity, gas WTT and electricity WTT Scope 3 15,936 16,688 Chosen intensity metric: Emissions tonnes per million of revenue 43.1 49.3 1 T he 2014 CO e numbers are subject to an adjustment as some of the actuals for Quarter 4 2 2014 were not available at the time of publication and have been estimated based on 2013 e numbers shown in this table are actuals.
Further information will be data.
The 2013 CO2 published in our 2014 Annual Sustainability Report in April 2015.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
