S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 To ensure continuity of our culture, we ensure that all employees and Partners joining the business are selected for their fit with our corporate values, as well as their competency, and that they are Our People given a full induction as the first step in their career with our business.
This includes receiving a booklet entitled Our Approach, which gives guidance on the culture and values of St. Jamess Place.
We believe it is important that our community We are a relationship business knows and understands our objectives, including the ethos behind the St. Jamess Place brand and how its integrity and values should where people are our most be maintained.
We also encourage shared commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Maintaining freshness of commitment to our culture is assured This statement is a core cultural belief and a fundamental element through a variety of activities including an Annual Company of the success of St. Jamess Place.
Members of our community Meeting, employee and Partner Surveys, regular Partner tend to share core values that are highly compatible with the meetings, feedback opportunities for employees with Directors values embraced by our founders expertise, integrity and and a Leadership Conference for senior management.
They are passionate about our business and believe in provide opportunities to renew our joint understanding and hard work and dedication.
They treat each other with mutual encourage commitment to our shared culture as well as ensuring respect, openness and fairness and are driven by a desire to do the a common awareness of the financial and economic factors right thing by all our stakeholders.
Age, race, colour, creed, affecting the Companys performance.
sexuality, disability and gender are irrelevant: merit and experience are of greatest importance.
Our regular employee survey, which we conduct every other year, provides important insights, crucially on employee This is our culture, which is central to our success.
The most recent survey was in 2014 and we received therefore pro-active in building and reinforcing it.
For this most a strong survey response rate of 87% compared to 86% in 2012. important of business differentiators it is the Board that provides Our overall engagement score was 87%, which was significantly tone at the top and oversight.
The Board is committed to being higher than the financial services benchmark of 72%.
We plan to consistent and clear-sighted in its continuing leadership and support continue with the bi-annual process which means our next survey of the culture, and in particular the principle that St. Jamess Place will be in 2016.
As a result of the strong engagement we also have will seek to do the right thing for its clients and for all its low levels of staff turnover being 9% in 2014 9%: 2013.
In a world where the reputation of the financial proportion of employees that are temporary staff is just over 7% services industry is constantly under pressure, we aspire to create 2013: 6%.
an authentic alternative which clients and suppliers can trust, and which the communities we are part of can appreciate and admire.
Information about the breakdown of employees by gender is However, we cant always get everything right, and so we also shown in the following table.
believe in acknowledging mistakes made and rectifying them.
Female Male Our people are a sustainable competitive advantage, so we aim to Board Directors 2 7 attract the best and help them fulfil their potential.
We secure their Managers and decision makers 57 306 commitment by providing them with an interesting and challenging Total employees 605 631 career within a first class working environment, and reward them competitively as well as encouraging equity ownership.
We are a Living Wage employer having made a commitment to meet the living wage for all our employees and suppliers.
We recognise that as our business grows we will have to take care with our culture.
Our employee numbers now exceed 1,000 and the number of Partners exceeds 2,000 over 2,700 advisers.
These are expected to continue to grow in future years.
