St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 40 We understand that responsible management is important to all our stakeholders shareholders, clients, Partners, employees, suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
Our commitment to responsible management was established in the founding principles of the Company and is expressed in both the Our Approach document, which is shared with all members of our community, and the What it means to be a member brochure, which sets out the expectations for our Partners.
We believe responsible management continues to be embedded in our culture and reminders and encouragement to live by this philosophy are provided regularly through team meetings and staff and Partner newsletters.
By living up to the expectations established within our culture, we believe we will be able to demonstrate trustworthiness, Corporate Social reliability and a commitment to the common good.
In a world where the reputation of the financial services industry is Responsibility constantly under pressure, we aspire to create an authentic alternative which all our stakeholders can trust, and which the Report communities we are part of can appreciate and admire.
We are constantly seeking to improve our delivery, but recent public endorsements include: Various awards relating to our client offering including the Wealth Adviser Awards Best Private Client Investment St. Jamess Place is committed Manager, the Personal Finance Awards Best Financial Adviser and the Financial Times Investors Chronicle Best to growing our business in a way Wealth Manager: Endorsement of our business model in National Business that considers the economic, social Awards, as a finalist in the FTSE 100 Business of the Year: and and environmental impacts of Maintaining our inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index, which comprises companies that meet globally recognised corporate what we do.
St. Jamess Places approach to CSR Charity St. Jamess Place Employees Environment Community & Partners & Culture Local Communities Registered No.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 CSR Governance Responsible management is central to our culture, and the task of maintaining this culture including our CSR ambitions is a key focus of the Executive Committee of the Board, with oversight by the full Board.
The Executive Committee of the Board is supported in this objective as in all of their work by a number of sub-committees, which are chaired by Directors or senior management Managing Committee Remit Our Culture Executive Committee of the Board To ensure the strength and maintenance of the unique culture throughout ourcommunity.
CSR overview, Local Community, CSR Group To co-ordinate the Groups approach to Suppliers and the Environment CSR, with particular focus on promoting local community engagement and environmental matters.
Investment Management Approach Investment Committee To manage our Investment Management Approach and oversee our fund managers.
The St. Jamess Place Foundation Foundation Trustees To manage the St. Jamess Place Foundation, including overseeing grant-making and compliance with the charitys objectives.
Community Activities The St. Jamess Place Foundation We have always been mindful of the role that we play in our local communities and, from the founding of the Group, have encouraged our staff and Partners to use their expertise to help local charities and other voluntary organisations.
The desire to provide support to the less fortunate in society resulted in the establishment of the St. Jamess Place Foundation which continues to receive support from all parts of the St. Jamess Place community: employees, Partners, clients, suppliers and shareholders.
During the year, the company again matched fundraising by members of our community resulting in a matching grant from the company of 3.6 million including gift aid.
You can find out more about our Foundation and its activities on pages 46 to 49 or on its website at www.
Community Volunteering Whilst the engagement of our employees with the Foundation has by far the largest impact on our communities, in recent years we have explored new initiatives to recognise and support our employees who also volunteer in other areas.
We are proud of the generous spirit of our employees and the fact that, according to feedback from our most recent employee survey, 20% of staff members are actively engaged in volunteering in their local communities.
This is an important part of our culture and is an area we are seeking to develop.
In 2014, we invited members of staff who give up their time to support a local charity or community group to apply for a grant of up to 1,000 to be used for the benefit of the charity group.
39 grants totalling 22,583 were awarded during 2014, rewarding nearly 10,000 hours of volunteering by our staff.
We plan to expand this initiative in 2015 to our wider community, including our Partners.
Cirencester College St. Jamess Place has now been providing support to the further education college local to our head-office for over ten years.
Cirencester College has over 1,600 students between the ages of 16 and 19 and our main involvement is in providing support for the four Academy Programmes, each designed for students who aspire to work in a particular market sector.
These programmes are operated through the Colleges affiliation with the national charity Career Ready.
Support includes providing students with paid summer internships as well as extensive personal mentoring and business coaching by our employees.
We also sponsor a number of awards and have representation on the various Academy Boards at College and National level.
Over the years, we have offered 58 internships to students from Cirencester College, with 22 of them turning into full time employment opportunities.
This prompted an award from the Grow Gloucestershire Showcase awards for an Outstanding Business Contribution to Youth Employment and Skills.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Report A recent Academy graduate, who completed an Internship with We also piloted a programme with the charity Active Communities us, spoke of his experience saying: Network ACN that works with inner city young people, often from disadvantaged backgrounds.
A team of Partners and While working towards my A levels at college, I found it difficult to focus employees from our City office attended a workshop to assist young my attention on study due to the large number of distractions that all people on their Urban Stars programme in Tower Hamlets with young people face.
In fact, I was heading towards a set of pretty business planning, CV writing and mock interviews.
My Internship at St. Jamess Place gave me a taste of was a great success and we are working with ACN to expand the what it was like to work as part of a team in a large successful business and programme in London, Manchester and Belfast in 2015. made me determined to start my second year at college with a different attitude and get the grades I knew I was capable of and would make me Financial Education more attractive to potential employers.
Because of my Internship As one of the leading providers of financial advice to individuals experience, I applied for an Apprenticeship at St. Jamess Place and was and business owners in the UK, we recognise the importance and accepted for a place.
I am now working for the Company full time, while value of financial education.
As part of our work with the local still working towards a recognised qualification.
None of this would have community we have been looking to make use of our expertise to happened if it werent for that summer internship, an opportunity for also help young people learn to manage their finances better.
During 2014 we worked with teachers and students from a local Apprenticeships school, to build on earlier materials for a financial education Our apprentices programme has been another very effective programme that can be delivered on a day dedicated to the initiative, run in conjunction with Cirencester College, which subject, or spread over the course of a number of weeks if used in provides the training.
In 2012 we recruited five apprentices into individual lessons.
The lesson plans include topics within both the different areas of the business and 14 in 2013.
They have all PSHE Personal, Social and Health Education and Maths successfully completed their apprenticeships and been offered curriculum, fit with the new financial education curriculum and permanent jobs.
Our 2014 intake of 11 started in September and are targeted at pupils in year nine.
An important element of the will complete their apprenticeships in Business Administration, delivery will be support provided by volunteers from amongst our Marketing, IT and Accountancy in August 2015.
The value of this employees who can offer pupils wider experience beyond their work to both young people and the local community was teachers.
The materials were launched to teachers in December recognised in the year through a variety of awards ranging from a 2014 with the first delivery date planned for January 2015. special award by our local Cirencester Chamber of Commerce, to a commendation as a finalist in the National Apprentice Scheme We have also developed more advanced financial education awards for Newcomer Large Employer of the year.
material for year 12 and 13 students, working in conjunction with a company called Magnified Learning and Cirencester College.
Many of these pupils may be considering moving away from the family home for work or University and will become responsible for managing their own finances for the first time.
These materials will be used with pupils for the first time in early 2015.
Loughborough University Swimming In the year of a home Commonwealth Games, we were pleased to continue our sponsorship of the Loughborough University Swimming programme.
This enables the squad to receive additional coaching, and, since our relationship started in 2007, the team have medalled in all major UK and International events including European, Commonwealth, World Championships and the Olympic Games.
During 2014, the squad won four gold, three silver and five bronze medals at the Commonwealth Games.
If the squad were Employability Skills Training an individual country, they would have finished third in the Separately we have been working closely with the charity Young swimming medals table behind England in second and Australia in Gloucestershire to provide employability skills training for young first place.
The squad also secured five gold, three silver and five people in the area, many of whom are less academically able or bronze medals in the European Swimming Championships, from a disadvantaged background.
A range of volunteers from the helping team GB to top the medals table.
company have fulfilled roles as trustees and mentors.
Some financial support has also been provided.
The support helps the It was also a great year for Loughboroughs Paralympic swimmers young people to present themselves in the best possible way to with Ellie Simonds OBE leading the squad to three gold, three potential new employers through CV skills, personal presentation silver and a bronze medal at the IPC European Championships in tips and interview techniques.
Our support for the programme will continue at least until the 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Suppliers and Supply Chain St. Jamess Place believes in treating all our stakeholders fairly.
We also believe in the benefits to be gained from building long-term relationships based on mutual trust.
As a result, many of our key suppliers have been associated with the Group for a number of years and we have been able to cultivate very strong and mutually beneficial relationships, such as our providers of outsourced administration services: IFDS, Capita and State Street.
More generally, we expect all our suppliers to act in accordance with the standards embedded in our culture, and will undertake due diligence on new service providers to ensure we are comfortable with their approach to socially responsible management.
An important development for us in 2014 was accreditation with the Living Wage Foundation, which involved us working closely with our supply chain.
We are particularly pleased that many of our suppliers share our desire to make a positive and lasting difference to the lives of those less fortunate than ourselves, and we are very grateful to all those who have provided support to the St. Jamess Place Foundation, both through donations and through active participation in many of the events.
St. Jamess Place has always placed great reliance on the support of third party suppliers and the continued success of our business reflects, amongst other things, our success in cultivating and managing successful relationships with suppliers.
We are pleased to have signed up to the Prompt Payment Code which is encouraged by the Department of Business Innovation and Skills BIS and demonstrates a commitment to good practice between organisations and their suppliers.
Signatories to the Code commit to paying their suppliers within agreed and clearly defined terms, and commit also to ensuring that there is a proper process for dealing with any issues that may arise.
The Environment St. Jamess Place is committed to managing our environmental impact through effective management of energy systems, travel, water usage and waste recycling.
We recognise the effect our business can have on climate change and we take a positive approach to managing our business activities, whilst at the same time encouraging all Partners and staff to consider their own personal impact on the environment.
Oversight of our environmental strategy is through a Corporate Social Responsibility Group CSR Group with ultimate responsibility resting with David Bellamy CEO.
The group meets on a monthly basis and reviews environmental performance.
We measure our environmental data from October to September and the following tables summarise targets and progress, expressed in terms of both absolute and normalised CO e emissions for our core business activities in recent years.
Core business activities are 2 defined as those within Operational Control, which explicitly excludes our Unit Trusts.
The assessment uses the CarbonNeutral Company Protocol together with the 2014 conversion rates as provided by DEFRA for all our emission categories but the methodology for normalised emissions has changed to report emissions per thousand square feet.
The data has been checked and verified by RSK.
1 Targets Absolute Emissions Targets Base Year % of % increase Emissions Emissions in p. a. from tonnes ID Scope Description Scope Base Year Base Year CO e Target Year 2 Abs1 1 Gas and owned vehicles 100% 5% 2013 851 2016 Abs2 2 Electricity 100% 5% 2013 2,218 2016 Abs3 3 Business travel 100% 5% 2013 3,704 2016 Normalised Emissions Targets Base Year Normalised % of % increase Emissions Emissions in p. a. from tonnes CO e 2 ID Scope Description Scope Base Year Base Year per 000 sqft Target Year Int1 1 Gas and owned vehicles 100% 0% 2013 3.03 2016 Int2 2 Electricity 100% 0% 2013 7.90 2016 Int3 3 Business travel 100% 0% 2013 13.18 2016 In 2014, we set new targets for the next three years for both absolute and normalised measurements.
We are targeting that normalised emissions targets will remain constant, i. e. a nil increase, but in absolute terms emissions will be limited to a 5% p. a. increase, which compares to forecast business growth of 15% p. a.
The targets take into account the commissioning of a second head office building in Cirencester.
This is being built to accommodate business growth and is due to be completed during the target period.
We hope to achieve a BREAM rating of very good for the new building.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 44 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Report 2 Progress Absolute Emissions Progress Actual Emissions in Year tonnes % variance ID CO e from Target Comment 2 The business has experienced an increase in the use of Abs1 932 4% owned vehicles Replacement of old electrical plant with more modern kit at Abs2 1,888 19% several sites has resulted in reduced electricity usage Fewer long haul flights during the year resulted in lower Abs3 2,366 39% emissions in one of our most significant areas Normalised Emissions Progress Normalised Emissions in Year tonnes CO e per % variance 2 ID 000 sqft from Target Comment Increase use of owned vehicles was exacerbated Int1 3.28 8% by a reduction in the amount of floor space More efficient modern appliances has resulted in a reduction Int2 6.65 16% in normalised emissions, albeit for slightly smaller footprint The reduction in long haul flights causes a significant Int3 8.33 37% reduction in normalised performance Comparative data for 2013 is presented as the Base Year information in the Target tables above.
2014 has seen a significant reduction in electricity consumption driven by efficiencies as a result of plant replacement at several sites, resulting in a 19% reduction in scope 2 emission against our target track for absolute emissions.
However, growth in staff numbers using Owned Vehicles caused us to miss our targets for emissions related to Owned Vehicles.
Long-haul flight experience can vary from year to year, and usage was relatively low in 2014.
3 Gross and Net Emissions Gross Emissions tonnes CO e 2 ID Scope Activity 2012 2013 2014 Abs1 1 Gas and owned vehicles 847 851 932 Abs2 2 Electricity 2,144 2,218 1,888 Abs3 3 Business travel 3,275 3,704 2,366 Total 6,266 6,773 5,186 Carbon Offset 6,266 6,773 5,186 Net Emissions 0 0 0 Recognising that we are unable to reduce our carbon emissions to a zero level while energy is primarily sourced from fossil fuels, we will continue to offset our consumption through the purchase of carbon credits.
Following a strategic review, we have signed a new carbon offsetting contract with Carbon Clear.
In a further attempt to minimise the impact of our fossil fuel consumption, during 2014 the Group also concluded new energy contracts to procure green energy for the next three years.
We remain a member of the eTree initiative www.
com, which is run in association with the Woodland Trust Tree for All campaign and encourages shareholders to receive electronic communications.
Finally, acknowledging that our greatest environmental footprint is caused from the impact of our property funds, we are undertaking a review of the impact from our funds under management.
