Strategic report Group overview Sustainability Promoting sustainable economic and social development Thisfunding enables businesses to diversify or expand and Our highlights in 2014 Employees: we have continual dialogue with our employees gives individuals the opportunity to invest and provide stability for feedback on our role as an employer.
In 2014, we launched for future generations.
By doing all of this responsibly and My Voice, our new employee engagement survey, with O $318 million of lending provided to efficiently, we can have a positive effect on sustainable participation from over 85 per cent of employees.
development in our markets, contributing to economic micronance institutions MFIs, benefiting growthinthe long term and enabling communities, Communities: we work with local and international more than 2.1 million people businessesand people to thrive.
non-governmental organisations to understand the social, economic and environmental concerns of the communities O 99 per cent of staff recommitted to the Access to financial services where we operate and to deliver our community investment programmes.
In 2014, we partnered with the Queen Elizabeth Group Code of Conduct As a bank, we are committed to providing products and Diamond Jubilee Trust on four projects to help eliminate services to individuals and companies driving local, regional O 2,477 staff trained on environmental and blinding trachoma in Africa.
and global economic development and job creation.
We social risk management support trade, infrastructure and other key sectors of the Investors: we engage with investors and analysts through economy that create the foundation for long-term sustainable one-to-one meetings, roundtables and surveys on how to O $798.6 million of nancing provided and growth.
We actively share our expertise with clients, further integrate sustainability into our business.
In 2014, we governments, regulators and communities to help deepen participated in the leading sustainability indices including the supported for renewable energy and financial markets and strengthen the financial sector.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good and the Carbon cleantechnology Disclosure Project.
The markets where we operate continue to undergo rapid O change, creating new opportunities for economic growth.
We Stakeholder engagement Regulators, governments and industry bodies: we take $10 million raised for Seeing is Believing, are helping countries realise these opportunities by providing part in initiatives that engage regulators, governments and with a cumulative total of $79.4 million raised We maintain ongoing dialogue with stakeholders and draw dedicated financial services to the local entrepreneurs and financial institutions to address sustainability issues in our upon their feedback to develop our business strategy, identify and 65.8 million people reached since 2003 businesses that are leading innovation and employment markets.
In 2014, we participated in industry discussions new opportunities and manage risks.
In 2014, we provided $15 billion of funding to onnancial inclusion through our membership of the World ourCommercial Clients, who are predominately local and Clients: we engage with our clients to ensure that the Economic Forum Financial Inclusion Steering Committee and regional mid-sized companies.
products and services we offer meet their personal and Working Group.
We also joined the Green Bond Principles and We continue to support the United Nations Global Compact business needs.
We seek to provide the highest levels of Climate Bonds Initiative to promote the green bond market.
We continue to develop and expand our dedicated and its 10 principles on human rights, labour standards, service and actively work to identify and resolve complaints.
Islamicbanking brand, Standard Chartered Saadiq.
This annual report In2014, we moved towards an online sampling method to For more information on how we engage stakeholders weprovided$16 billion in Islamic nancing.
We acted as setsout our progress in incorporating these principles onmaterial issues, please refer to assess client satisfaction.
financial advisor and lead manager for Hong Kongs inaugural intoour business.
com  Sukuk Shariah-compliant Islamic Bonds issuance, the first Peter Sands dollar-denominated AAA-rated Government Sukuk.
Group Chief Executive landmark RMB bond issuance and Vietnams first bond issuance Being a responsible company We allocate capital to key sectors in the economy including in the international capital market since 2010.
Our commitment to sustainability is about more than the agriculture, trade and infrastructure.
In 2014, we nanced We provide financial products and tools to help our clients economic activity we finance for our clients.
It is also about how $30.9 billion through our Commodity Traders and Agribusiness Sustainability and our business reach individuals who lack access to banking services.
we develop our people and manage our business to create portfolio.
We supported Vietnams agriculture sector by signing Using our position as a leading financial institution, we are In2014, we rolled out capabilities to transact with mobile long-term value for our stakeholders and deliver on our brand a $70 million nancing agreement with An Giang Plant committed to promoting positive social and economic walletsin four markets.
This technology allows clients such promise, Here for good.
In 2014, we continued to strengthen our Protection Joint Stock Company to fund a rice paddy eld development in the countries where we operate.
asnon-governmental organisations to help pay their staff and corporate governance framework, made a significant investment model that aims to provide a higher-quality product and other beneciaries through mobile phones inareas with in our financial crime remediation programmes and moved financial security for farmers.
Sustainability to us is not just about using less energy, or raising limitedaccess to banking facilities.
In addition, weprovided forward with additional external disclosure on country-by-country money for good causes, although we are proud of our efforts in We retained our position as a leading trade bank.
We supported $318 million to 23 MFIs.
We continue to promote transparency tax payments as set out in the European Union requirements.
Sustainability is embedded in our brand promise, Here for the development of the China-UK trade corridor by becoming in the sector and conducted an independent review of the good, and affects every single thing we do: the way we make one of the first market-makers for direct trading between the social performance of 28 of our MFI partners.
Governance decisions, the contribution we make to local economies and the renminbi RMB and the GBP on the interbank foreign exchange impact that we have when we bank the people and companies Robust governance is the foundation for establishing trust market in the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
Environmental and social risk management driving investment, trade and the creation of wealth across Asia, andpromoting engagement between a company and its Many of our markets are hampered by unreliable infrastructure, Africa and the Middle East.
To achieve long-term sustainable development, we must stakeholders.
We see governance as critical to our commitment which can impede economic growth.
We have made a responsibly manage environmental and social risks.
We have to being a responsible company and continuously look for ways Our ambition is to be the worlds best international bank.
$5 billioncommitment to support Power Africa a five-year well-established Position Statements that set out the standards to strengthen our approach.
Thismeans getting the basics right: being nancially stable, multi-stakeholder partnership to help bolster investment in we expect of clients and ourselves, including application of the continuously improving our governance and seizing the In 2014, the Brand and Values Committee, which oversees power generation across Sub-Saharan Africa from 2013 to Equator Principles.
opportunities presented by our markets to provide and oursustainability agenda, was renamed the Brand, Values and 2018.
We are providing advisory, nancing, debt-structuring promotesustainable economic growth.
In 2014, we revised our environmental and social risk assessment Conduct Committee, to more accurately reect the committees services and policy framework development.
Our efforts in procedures and underlying templates.
These procedures assess focus on different aspects of conduct.
The Brand, Values and 2013and 2014 are expected to culminate in the creation of over Our approach continues to focus on three key priorities: alignment with our Position Statements and are completed as Conduct Committee works to ensure that the right culture, 900megawatts of additional generation capacity in Africa.
contributing to sustainable economic growth, being a part of our credit approval process for all clients and certain values and behaviours are actively adopted and promoted Across our markets, wesupport the renewable energy and responsible company and investing in communities.
Potential issues are identied and referred to a atalllevels within the organisation.
We provided and supported nancing specialist team for a more in-depth review.
Further details regarding the remit, role and responsibilities Contributing to sustainable economic growth client relationships and transactions were referred for further ofthe Brand, Values and Conduct Committee can be found We share our expertise to help countries raise funding, deepen Whether it is helping businesses to grow, supporting people review.
For all identied risks, we seek to develop effective onpages 161 to 165. capital markets and attract investment.
In 2014, we continued tobuy their own homes or providing clients with a full range of mitigating measures.
Where this is not possible, transactions our role as sovereign ratings advisor to 10 governments, The Board Financial Crime Risk Committee became effective products to facilitate global trade and investment, we use our have been, and will continue to be, turned down.
supporting their economic development goals through enhanced core business of banking to fuel economic activity in our markets.
Its role is to provide additional focus and credit positioning, investor relations and capital-raising strategies.
oversight of all financial crime compliance matters.
In 2014, we provided $289 billion in lending to our clients.
For example, in 2014, we co-arranged theUK governments 26 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 27 Strategic report Group overview Sustainability Suppliers organisations and to process payments for health workers.
We The IFFIm is a multilateral institution created to accelerate the also joined together with other private sector companies and availability of predictable, long-term funds for health and We made further progress in engaging our suppliers to meet signed the UN Business Action Pledge on Ebola Elimination.
leading environmental and social standards by joining the immunisation programmes.
The three-year, $500 million Sukuk was the IFFIms first, with the proceeds set to fund United Nations Global Compact UNGC Supply Chain Employee volunteering Sustainability Workstream in 2014.
In addition to adhering immunisation programmes and health-system strengthening initiatives for children in some of the worlds poorest countries, toourSupplier Charter established in 2012, we encourage Our staff are highly engaged in employee volunteering.
oursuppliers to adopt the 10 UNGC principles relating to Everyemployee is entitled to three days of paid volunteering many of which are in our footprint.
issuessuch as human rights and labour.
We integrate volunteering into our community As well as being the largest inaugural Sukuk issue from a programmes and encourage skills-based volunteering.
supranational, this was also the first ever socially responsible Investing in communities In2014, we contributed over 86,900 volunteering days Sukuk with funds to be utilised for vaccinations.
Promoting the social and economic development of Acting as Sole Global Coordinator and Joint Lead Manager for communities is fundamental to our strategy supporting this landmark transaction, we increased the deal size from sustainable economic growth in our markets.
In 2014, we Our performance $300 million to $500 million.
Over 85 per cent of the order invested $64.2 million, or the equivalent of 1.06 per cent of book comprised new, primarily Islamic, investors.
This our2013 operating profit, in community programmes.
Our Dow Jones Sustainability Index highlights investor confidence in the deal and our ability to programmes focus on health and education, with youth as a We were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index access unique pools of liquidity for our clients.
We support emergency response efforts DJSI World Index and Europe Index.
We were noted for The Sukuk gave investors the opportunity to help protect tens across our markets.
Saving lives through Sukuks ourstrong performance in risk and crisis management, of millions of children from preventable diseases, and enabled brand management, corporate citizenship, stakeholder In 2014, we leveraged our expertise to help organisations and us to use our expertise to demonstrate our commitment to Community programmes engagement and financial inclusion.
governments issue Sukuks Shariah-compliant Islamic Bonds, being Here for good.
The economic prosperity of a community depends on a healthy but none could match the life-saving impact of the Sukuk that FTSE4Good and productive population.
Seeing is Believing SiB, our agship we arranged for the International Finance Facility for We were listed in the FTSE4Good Index.
The FTSE4Good community programme, provides funding to address avoidable Immunisation Company IFFIm.
measures the performance of companies that meet globally blindness and promote quality eye health.
Through fundraising recognised corporate responsibility standards.
and bank matching, we raised $10 million in 2014.
From 2003 People and values appropriate and suitable products.
In 2014, we moved towards to2014, we raised more than $79.4 million and reached an online sampling method to assess client satisfaction and Carbon Disclosure Project 65.8 million people.
In 2014, we awarded nine grants from As part of our one-bank approach, we continue to embed understand their needs.
We have robust global policies and We were selected for the UK FTSE Carbon Disclosure theSiB Innovation Fund to promote and develop pioneering ourculture and values throughout the Group.
We invest in our procedures in place to make sure that complaints are identied Leadership Index and were included for the first time on solutions to tackle blindness around the world.
people through learning and development programmes with and resolved quickly.
To support our continual focus on theA List: The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Climate 94 per cent of employees receiving training in 2014.
To further Our Living with HIV LwHIV programme marked 15 years of conduct, in 2014 we exited our engagement of third-party Performance Leadership Index.
understand the views of our employees, in 2014 we launched providing education on HIV and AIDS to our staff and communities vendors as representatives of the Group for the sale of our anew employee engagement survey, My Voice, in which over 1 in 2014.
We focused on Positive Living initiatives across our retailproducts.
85 per cent of employees participated.
markets, encouraging colleagues to get involved in reducing the Our priorities in 2015 We respect human rights across our business.
This includes Environment fear and stigma associated with HIV and AIDS.
Our employees delivered over 5,000 volunteering days for LwHIV in 2014, an our human resources policies and our procurement decisions We seek to minimise the impact of our operations on the O as set out in our Supplier Charter.
We consider human rights increase of 15 per cent over 2013.
We established a partnership Progress our Power Africa commitment to environment.
In 2014, we reduced our energy use intensity by with the MTV Staying Alive Foundation to provide funding to inour nancing decisions, guided by our Position Statements, bolster investment in power generation 4 per cent, our water use intensity by 3 per cent and our ofce which address the rights of children, workers and communities organisations delivering local education and awareness paper use by 6 per cent per full-time employee.
We remain programmes on HIV and AIDS in several of our markets.
in relation to specic industry-sector risks.
O Continue to train staff on our environmental broadly on track to meet our respective committed targets.
Education provides opportunities for individuals and Tomanage energy and water use across our properties, in 2014 and social risk procedures Financial crime prevention communities.
Goal, our leading education programme, we collaborated with landlords to make sure that 34 per cent combines sports with life-skills training to empower girls with Financial crime hinders economic progress and harms ofour new and renewed leases are green.
In 2015, we will work O Continue to engage staff on our conduct the confidence, knowledge and skills they need to be integral individuals and communities.
We strive to have the most with our new property management partner, Johnson Controls agenda economic leaders in their families and communities.
We effective financial crime compliance programmes in order to Inc, to accelerate energy and water savings across our reached more than 50,000 girls across 24 markets in 2014. protect our clients, employees and the places where we do propertyfootprint.
O Promote our targets to improve energy From 2006 to 2014, we empowered nearly 146,000 girls.
Our goal is to prove that we are leading the way in In2014, we expanded the employability component of the efficiency across our properties combating financial crime, while providing a quality service for Environment assurance programme through a partnership with the International Youth our clients.
Over the past two years, the Group has dedicated O Encourage skills-based volunteering to Foundation to help prepare girls to enter the workforce.
substantial leadership attention, investment and training to PwC is our independent third-party assurance provider for financial crime compliance.
In 2014, we more than doubled support the needs of local communities Our global Financial Education for Youth programme trained Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions.
In 2014, our measured thestaff working in Financial Crime Compliance and hired over 13,100 young people across 15 markets in 2014.
Alongside Scope 3 emissions were included as part of our assurance industry leaders into the function.
Each year more than 80,000 this, we expanded our Education for Entrepreneurs training along with our measured Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions employees complete training to prevent bribery, corruption and programme by developing a training toolkit enabling staff toenhance the credibility of our GHG reporting.
While we have made progress, we still have volunteers to deliver sessions on financial management to more to do to ensure our own behaviours and processes are For additional information, review the microand small businesses in our communities.
In 2014, the operating above regulatory standards.
Our commitment to this Independent Assurance Report on programme ran in eight markets and reached 835 entrepreneurs.
com  We provide emergency response and support reconstruction efforts across our markets.
In 2014, we contributed more than Responsible selling and marketing $700,000 to relief efforts focusing on ood recovery in several Supporting the needs of our clients and delivering a high-quality countries in Asia and the Ebola Virus Disease EVD in West client experience is a priority across the business.
To support the local and international EVD response, we ontreating clients fairly and work closely with them to deliver are utilising our local banking network to open accounts for aid 1.
Except for the Philippines, which is currently under review 28 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 29
