Strategic report Group overview Business environment People Supporting the organisation through change refresh our approach.
In 2014, we launched a new bespoke Our highlights in 2014 employee engagement survey aligned to our organisational aspirations.
O Effectively transitioned from a two-business The new My Voice survey provides greater insight into our to a one-bank structure, successfully engagement drivers across the Group.
We will now also be able to run regular, smaller-scale pulse surveys that allow us a more managing the impact on people detailed understanding of engagement within specic groups.
O Increased headcount to support the delivery Over 85 per cent of employees across 68 countries completed of financial, regulatory, risk and compliance the survey in 2014.
The survey measures both the engagement commitments of employees and the importance they attribute to various engagement factors: by looking at the gap between the two O Launched My Voice, a new employee weare able to identify opportunities to improve the experience engagement survey, to identify and of our employees.
The current overall gap, calculated on a 1 five-point scale, is 0.36. benchmark the engagement drivers of Strong scores were registered for employee engagement with ourdiverse, multi-generational workforce the Groups brand, strategy, and diverse and inclusive culture.
O Deepened the focus on employee conduct There were also positive results across the Group on conduct With lower oil savings than its SSA counterparts, Nigerias economy is more Higher global consumer demand on the back of lower oil prices should and culture, as well as a high level of individual commitment and exposed to reduced oil prices raise demand for Asian exports and risk and control processes, in relation job engagement.
Areas that need attention include collaboration, toperformance and pay and clarity about growth opportunities and career paths.
greater capital market depth arguably give it more room to domestic conditions: this is now paying off.
Egypt has benefited O Strengthened and refreshed the senior More than 9,000 leaders and managers are currently working increase borrowing than other SSA producers.
But with foreign from direct investments from the UAE and Saudi Arabia.
We leadership team to guide and navigate credit lines to Nigeria strongly correlated with oil price expect other MENA countries to benefit from similar investment on actions to address the opportunities identied through the survey, building engagement and delivering on our Here for expectations, risks need to be managed carefully.
Excessive ows in 2015 and beyond.
through change foreign exchange market volatility poses some risk to the good brand promise to make Standard Chartered a great The recent decline in oil prices is a timely reminder that while O Continued to promote diversity and inclusion placeto work.
domestic banking system, which has increased its reliance on there has been a strong push to diversify Gulf Cooperation foreign borrowing in recent years.
Nigeria will need to maintain and launched a Flexibility Charter to Council GCC economies, government revenues remain heavily Conduct tight monetary policy, even as it cuts scal expenditure, in order dependent on oil.
In our view, diversifying sources of budget encourage better work-life balance to accommodate lower oil prices.
nancing is a key step GCC countries can take to mitigate the Raising the bar on conduct remains an important focus.
At the end of 2014, 99 per cent of our employees reconrmed their Africas oil-importing countries, largely in East and Southern impact of lower oil prices.
We have long argued that the region Africa and including South Africa, will be significant beneciaries should be pushing strongly to establish local-currency debt commitment to our Code of Conduct.
My Voice survey results Becoming one bank also indicated that 95 per cent of employees understand what of the lower oil price.
Current account deficits triggered in part capital markets.
This would provide nancing for sovereigns The reorganisation in the first half of 2014 was a critical step to by oil-price strength should decline.
Ination proles will also andimprove access to funding for local corporates and smaller the Code of Conduct means for them in their roles.
regaining our performance momentum and ensuring that we improve, and lower fuel prices should support consumption businesses.
As scal surpluses fall and the potential for deficits We continue to embed our six fair-accountability principles.
remain on track to achieve our aspirations.
For East African producers on the cusp of new increases, 2015 should be a year of greater progress towards These guide the way we act and make decisions when we changed our organisation structure to drive operational hydrocarbon production, the main question is the extent to discipline and prioritisation of spending, including tackling something goes wrong.
Over the course of the year, we efficiencies, collaboration and long-term employee engagement.
which weaker prices in the near term will alter the outlook.
trained3,500 managers on how these principles should Through the new regional and business structure we reiterated Softer oil prices will cut exploration spend in Africa, especially Subsidies in the GCC range from a low of 5.5 per cent of beputinto practice if a disciplinary situation arises.
our commitment to operate as one bank.
We also aligned our inmore costly offshore elds.
Resource taxation regimes will GDPin Qatar to almost 11.5 per cent in Saudi Arabia.
This people priorities to deepen our organisational culture and We have also strengthened the way that conduct, risk and bea key theme in SSA in 2015, and the interplay with domestic places a burden on budgets, especially in an environment of strengths in conduct, values, leadership, and diversity and politics will be closely watched.
Besides Zambia and Nigeria, compliance matters are taken into consideration in assessment falling oil prices.
With GCC countries committed to improving inclusion.
These are key differentiators that will enable us of performance and pay.
Managers are now required to confirm Tanzania and Cote dIvoire also go to the polls in 2015. infrastructure and diversifying their economies, energy-subsidy todeliver on the Groups aspirations and brand promise.
that their employees have demonstrated a satisfactory level of reform would free scal resources for more productive conduct, and to specify any risk and compliance behaviours Middle East and North Africa MENA investments.
Egypt and Jordan have already moved to reduce People and events the manager has taken into account.
We see four important themes for the region in 2015.
First, the power and energy subsidies, and Abu Dhabi has announced At the end of 2014, we had a total workforce of more than growth dynamics of the major oil exporters will be adversely higher utility tariffs asat 1 January 2015.
In Saudi Arabia, policy Building organisational capability 90,000 employees across 71 markets, representing 133 affected, while we see positive growth signals from some oil makers are discussing the possibility of adopting smart tariffs nationalities.
The Group registered a headcount increase importers that have implemented reforms and are benefiting that apply energy subsidies according to income brackets.
Our long history of successful growth is anchored in our ability of4,300, largely as a result of bringing our direct sales force to recruit diverse and talented people, and to invest in and from investment inows.
Second, as recent oil-price moves While more needs to be done, these are steps in the in-house and strengthening capability in the areas of legal and have shown, scal spending that is heavily dependent on the rightdirection.
retain the best and brightest employees.
compliance, and internal audit, as well as the operations in our hydrocarbon sector cannot rise indefinitely.
Third, reducing Shared Services Centres to support the delivery of our financial, highenergy subsidies in the MENA region may be crucial to Conclusion Investing in leadership regulatory, risk and compliance commitments.
giving economies the scal leeway needed to meet growing Developing the next generation of business leaders is vital Better growth and low ination are likely in 2015, which should investment needs.
Finally, regional conicts could affect Our overall employee attrition rate has improved, with turnover toour performance and remains a priority for the Group.
We bepositive for financial markets.
Stronger US growth and the somecountries.
We have established a framework continue to invest in our employees at all levels to help them resilience of emerging markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle that allows us to identify and proactively address areas where The growth outlook for the major oil exporters in 2015 is grow their careers.
We have also reviewed our leadership East should provide support, but the absence of strong attrition is acute.
This approach has proved successful in 2014 development approach to equip our leaders for an increasingly challenging.
Fiscal policy is likely to be tightened unless oil business and consumer confidence is sobering.
confidence and we are confident that we can deploy this in areas where prices rebound quickly, and this will affect non-hydrocarbon complex operating environment.
isneeded for the recovery to gain momentum.
attrition is above acceptable levels.
Further, OPEC may agree output cuts later in 2015, which will reduce headline GDP growth.
In the wider MENA Employee engagement region, reforms implemented in Jordan and Egypt are leading 1.
The gap score represents the difference between the importance that our employees attribute to the employee experience across 40 different measures, and toan improved outlook for 2015.
Both countries have made Having conducted an annual Group-wide Gallup employee their perception of how well the Group is delivering in these areas.
Maximum gap significant efforts to reform energy subsidies under tense engagement survey between 2001 and 2012, we decided to score five, with zero being the target 22 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 23 Strategic report Group overview People Learning and development Graduate recruitment Diversity and inclusion number of hires 1 Female executive and non-executive directors, Nationality Australia & Percentage of employees including chairman 2 11% 2013: 3 14% New Zealand 1% receiving training Americas 2% 465 94 Others no information 2% Europe 382 Average spend on training 375 Female senior management 43 15% 2013: 48 16% 4% Middle East Senior management is dened as Director, Band 1 and Band 2 per employee $ & Pakistan 7% 28% South Asia 764 10% Africa Average training days Female employees, excluding executive directors 42,617 47% per employee 2013: 40,630 47% 3.2 South East 20% 26% North East Asia Asia Further information on our people can be found on pages 326 and 327 2012 2013 2014 In its inaugural year, over 85 per cent of employees completed our new employee engagement survey, My Voice O We have streamlined and aligned the content of our leadership leadership expectations, and risk management philosophy.
Set up a forum for line managers who have team members Health, safety and wellness programmes so that our leaders are equipped with a consistent In2015, there are plans to hold 40 programmes globally, for with disabilities, developing their inclusive leadership We are focused on providing a safe, secure and healthy skill set, knowledge and behaviour.
To ensure we continue to over 1,000 mid-level leaders.
capabilities and facilitating the growth of a supportive workingenvironment for our people and clients.
We maintain build sufficient leadership capacity, we have doubled the number learningnetwork of people managers high standards that are aligned with international best practice of leadership programmes that we run for middle management, Building our talent pipeline O Continued engagement with the communities in which we and regularly review the health and safety performance of and increased the frequency of other manager programmes.
Graduate recruitment and development is a fundamental and operate, for example conducting a workshop for students ourproperties.
We have strengthened and refreshed our senior leadership long-standing part of the Groups talent strategy.
Each year, we with disabilities in Ghana aimed at equipping them with More than 80 per cent of our employees have access to team across the organisation, increasing the number of senior attract more than 120,000 applications to over 700 graduate job-market skills anemployee assistance programme, providing them with executive positions.
Graduates apply from across the Lesbian Gay Bisexual and Transgender LGBT inclusion condential advice and counselling on issues such as world, and our graduate programme is designed to offer each continues to be a particular focus as we aim to increase relationships, financial stress and legal concerns.
Learning and development employee the opportunity to develop and apply their individual understanding and create a safe and respectful environment, skills and strengths.
In 2015, we will drive greater awareness and understanding To support consistent learning delivery, we upgraded our based on fair and equal treatment of our LGBT colleagues.
ofwellness and health and safety through learning and Learning Management System LMS this year.
Our improved Following the reorganisation in April 2014, we launched a Activities have included: education programmes.
LMS allows the Group to target education more accurately and newintegrated graduate programme, replacing our previous O The launch of a resource guide to raise awareness about offers all line managers a simple and full view of their teams Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking programmes.
LGBT-related topics, published to mark the International Day Our priorities in 2015 learning activity.
In 2015, we will use the LMS to deliver and Wewill build on this development programme in 2015, and Against Homophobia and Transphobia launch new learning.
offeradditional career support and acceleration opportunities O for thishighly valued group of junior employees.
The launch of the LGBT Allies Programme with videos and a O Raise the bar on conduct to ensure We also refreshed our Group-wide on-boarding programme, panel discussion involving senior leaders, and a roundtable Right Start Live.
This provides a consistent programme for new employees understand its criticality and Embedding diversity and inclusion discussion on LGBT inclusion with peer organisations who joiners in each of the markets across our footprint.
Right Start areable to respond appropriately to the also have significant presence in markets in Africa and the Live is now a half-day induction programme attended by most The diversity of our people and our markets is a particular Middle East increasingly complex regulatory environment people within a few weeks of joining.
The programme is highly strength that sets the Group apart and allows us to appreciate interactive and focuses on our organisational culture and the and serve our clients diverse needs.
We have maintained gender representation at key levels of in which we operate importance of our values and appropriate conduct.
leadership in 2014, with 15 per cent of senior executive levels Our goal is to create an inclusive environment where everyone being women.
This includes female country chief executive O Strengthen employee engagement and New joiners also receive support through Right Start Online, an can realise their full potential in contributing to our business ofcers in China, Hong Kong, Nigeria, Tanzania and Thailand.
on-boarding portal available to all new joiners from their first day success, free from bias.
By building on the advantage of increase focus on delivering our network The activities we undertook included: in the ofce.
This tool provides them with access to the Code ournatural diversity and making inclusion an organisational through even greater collaboration O ofConduct and information on our businesses, products and strength, we can create a sustainable competitive advantage Helping more than 500 women gain valuable leadership skills structure, as well as the Groups values.
In addition to Right Start that contributes to delivering superior business results.
through participation in our Women in Leadership and O Continue to strengthen our leadership team Live, FastStart, our core programme for recent senior joiners, In2014, we: Womens Development programmes so as to build capability and create credible remains central to the development of new senior leaders.
O O Celebrated International Day for People with Disabilities by Appointing male and female sponsors to these senior succession plans While these programmes are not mandatory, we highly holding a global webinar on the subject of disability in the development programmes, recognising the role of men in recommend participation in order to learn about the Groups workplace, encouraging senior leaders who have been effecting change O Support our client-centric strategy with a culture.
Right Start Live reached 74 per cent of all new joiners affected by disability to share their stories O Establishing a mentoring scheme in the UK aimed at helping in2014.
FastStart covered 80 per cent of the eligible population, review of enablers such as performance O Launched Project Employability to increase career young disadvantaged women in their careers with a session scheduled in the first quarter of 2015 for the opportunities for people with disabilities.
Fourteen teams management, coaching, and career remaining eligible population and new senior leaders to across eight countries reviewed 76 roles to remove barriers theGroup.
planning processes and create an inclusive environment for candidates with a This learning and development momentum will continue into self-disclosed disability 2015 when we will introduce SC Ready a learning module that O Established a pilot disability internship programme in supports the alignment of our mid-level leaders to our culture, Singapore in conjunction with a local government agency 1.
The denition of nationality has been revised to reect the passport of the employee 24 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 25
