Strategic report Group overview Business environment The Business environment report has been produced by ourGlobal Research team.
The forecasts for 2015 reect A year of transition their projections.
In 2014, the eurozone nally emerged from recession Since mid-2009, growth in the US has averaged only Growth in 2015 to remain resilient andgrowth in the US economy accelerated, but the 2.3 per cent, a lacklustre recovery after such a severe recovery was slower than hoped, and Chinas slowdown recession.
We expect the US to nally break out of this phase continued.
Standard Chartereds biggest markets in in2015, growing by 2.8 per cent.
Although not spectacular, China South Korea Hong Kong UAE Asia, Africa and the Middle East once again proved to thiswould be a notable improvement.
The dampening effects bethe main engines of global growth.
ofthe strong dollar and falling investment in shale oil on the USeconomy will be offset by the significant boost to US 7.0% 3.6% 3.0% 3.8% Asia, excluding Japan, expanded GDP by 6.3 per cent, Africa consumption growth from lower gasoline prices.
The strong grew by 5.0 per cent and the Middle East by 3.8 per cent.
2014: 7.4% 2014: 3.3% 2014: 2.2% 2014: 4.5% dollar provides support for many other countries by helping Despite its slowdown, China continued to be one of the toboost profits and, over time, exports.
fastest-growing economies in the world, expanding by 1 7.4 per cent in 2014.
India also saw a pick-up in growth In response to higher growth and falling unemployment, the India Indonesia Singapore Nigeria to7.4 per cent in 2014 from 6.9 per cent in 2013.
Federal Reserve FED is likely to proceed with its first interest rate hike in 2015.
We expect this hiking cycle to be slow and the China focused on rebalancing, with policymakers working 7.7% 5.2% 3.5% 4.7% peak in interest rates to be low.
We forecast a total of 50 basis toboost consumption and services relative to investment, points bps of hikes in 2015, starting in September.
The US focused on rates rising further to 1.75 per cent by the end of 2016, with the normalising its monetary policy, ending its quantitative easing FED pausing its hiking cycle at 2.0 per cent.
Indias financial year starts in April QE programme and preparing markets for the first interest rate view that rates will stay lower for longer, as the expected peak hikes in 2015 since the global financial crisis.
Despite the end of of 2.0 per cent is much lower than in previous hiking cycles.
QE in the US, global monetary policy remained easy, with the Bank of Japan BoJ, the European Central Bank ECB and the We expect the eurozone economy to improve in 2015 Peoples Bank of China PBoC all easing monetary conditions.
compared with 2014, supported by ECB action and a more and Indonesia have the greatest potential to see major changes corruption drive can be seen as a stepping stone towards the This theme of divergence is likely to continue in 2015 as neutral scal stance after years of austerity.
The main risks are in the coming years, in our view.
Japans reform agenda is reform objective, though it has had the side-effect of reducing Chinasgrowth eases back to a slower pace and oil-exporting that high unemployment brings political instability, damaging moving forward very slowly, with only aggressive monetary consumption.
The slowdown in housing construction has economies weaken, while developed economies accelerate.
confidence, and that lack of progress on reforms, especially easing and Japanese yen JPY weakness having supported the further to go, but demand for housing has picked up, supported inFrance and Italy, depresses confidence and limits growth recovery so far.
Across most of the region, we expect monetary by the governments easing of restrictions on house purchases The outlook for 2015 potential.
In Japan, Abenomics and its combination of scal policy to be tightened modestly by the end of 2015.
The and lower interest rates.
Housing inventories are falling and we and monetary stimulus have helped to push up growth.
The exceptions are China, India and Vietnam, which are likely expect the market to normalise over the next one to two years.
We expect global growth to improve in 2015, rising to recovery was interrupted in 2014 when scal stimulus was toremain biased towards looser policy.
Fiscal austerity, which Indonesias reform push has made a slower start than Indias reversed and the sales tax was hiked.
The decision to delay heldgrowth back in developed countries during 2011 to 2014, India is enjoying strong investor sentiment due to changes asthe newly elected Jokowi administration faces challenges, plans for another sales tax hike should be positive for 2015 isset to be much less in 2015, removing a significant headwind already made by its new government.
We expect stronger including a minority in parliament and the nancing of growth.
Lower oil prices are also a significant benefit to Japan, to growth.
Meanwhile, low oil prices, if sustained, will boost growth and declining ination in the coming years, a reversal of thecurrent account deficit once US rate hikes begin.
though the resulting lower ination will delay progress towards growth in all the major economies including the US, Europe, the prior period of stagation.
Policies are focused on boosting Infrastructure development is critical to reducing ination the 2 per cent ination target.
China is slowing but may still manage bureaucratic effectiveness, reducing food hoarding and andboosting growth.
growth of around 7 per cent in 2015.
India, having brought encouraging the private sector to invest.
Modis Make in India Asia Regional tensions remain a risk, with territorial disputes ination and its current account deficit under control, could be campaign aims to encourage foreign companies to set up between China and its neighbours unresolved.
The risk apositive surprise in 2015.
The eurozone, held back in 2014 by We expect a good, but not great, growth performance for the manufacturing facilities in the country.
An important litmus test ofcurrency wars spreading to the region should also be geo-political concerns, should improve moderately.
After key elections in Indonesia and India in of policy success will be growing FDI by global corporates.
Growth received a significant boost in 2014 from the emerging Asia outside China to maintain solid growth, while 2014, their governments now have room to implement reforms Deleveraging in the corporate sector will be another important exchange rate depreciation of 2013, but a spiral of competitive theMiddle East and Africa will slow, largely due to weaker aimed at boosting potential growth and investment.
The success enabler for a more decisive pick-up in Indias growth.
The new devaluations would be in no ones interest.
JPY weakness is commodity prices, including oil.
of this reform push will determine the extent of the investment government has introduced measures to facilitate this, including akey focus of other Asian economies, particularly since the boost seen around the region.
Foreign investors both portfolio helping to restructure corporate loans, but the deleveraging Although the world economy is improving, momentum is surprise increase in the BoJs monetary easing programme in and foreign direct investment FDI will discriminate between process is likely to extend beyond 2015. sluggish and confidence is fragile, especially in the industrial October 2014.
Asias election schedule is much lighter in 2015 countries that do and do not deliver on reforms.
This means that unanticipated shocks geo-political Chinas recent shift towards broad-based monetary policy with the January elections in Sri Lanka already concluded: only or otherwise can have bigger effects than in a stronger world easing is a response to several factors, in our view: weak elections in Thailand and Singapore seem likely.
Moreover, while policy can improve growth dynamics, Excluding Japan, the Asian economy expanded by 6.3 per cent in 2014, wagegrowth combined with reported job losses beyond the The fall in oil prices will benefit most Asian economies, boosting thelargest increase of the Groups key markets it can also be a significant source of risk.
So far, the main policy manufacturing sector: still-soft confidence in the small and growth, lowering ination and improving current account lever for boosting growth has been monetary easing.
Interest medium-sized enterprise sector: and rising disinationary positions.
It is also reducing budget deficits in some countries, rates are already at very low levels and we expect the BoJ and pressure.
While slower credit growth may cause short-term notably India and Indonesia, by cutting the cost of fuel PBoC to ease further.
However, monetary easing has painto the economy, it is helping to rein in the rise in debt GDP subsidies.
The boost to global consumer demand from lower limitations, especially in countries where interest rates are ratios.
Worries over local government debt should also ease oilprices is also expected to lead to stronger external demand already close to zero and where low market rates reect weak further: its growth rate slowed to low single digits in 2014, from for Asian exports, benefiting Hong Kong, South Korea and confidence.
We look for an improvement in business and above 20 per cent in 2009 to 2010, according to the National Taiwan in particular.
consumer confidence to help cement growth prospects.
Also, the expansion of the so-called shadow banking sector has slowed, reducing the risks in this area.
Meaningful economic reforms could help and there has been Sub-Saharan Africa SSA Weexpect a gradual rise in Chinas non-performing loans in some progress in Europe, China, India, Indonesia and Mexico 2015 and beyond, but the authorities are expected to continue Oil-exporting countries in SSA will be impacted by lower oil recently.
Hopes are high for more reforms to boost productivity to monitor the financial system closely.
prices in 2015, though their ability to withstand sustained price and open up new sectors for investment.
This year could also volatility varies widely.
We expect Gabon to manage best given see progress in liberalising world trade with the Bali Agreement The rebalancing of Chinas economy away from investment its greater scal exibility and its ability to quickly cut spending simplifying customs procedures likely to be ratied, and there are towards consumption and services is a multi-year effort.
notably capital expenditure which should limit downside hopes that the Trans-Pacic Partnership, the Transatlantic Trade Weareawaiting key policies to boost labour mobility reforming risks.
Angola follows, thanks to its comfortable savings as a and Investment Partnership, and the Regional Comprehensive the hukou household registration system, lower the savings percentage of GDP.
Nigeria, with lower oil savings, is more Economic Partnership, led by China, could go forward.
rate bolstering the social security system, and reform the exposed.
Nigerias larger GDP, low public debt ratios and Progress on these would give a boost to world confidence.
The governments anti- 20 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 21
