STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY For 25 years, we have been connecting people, adapting and evolving the business toaddvalue for customers and shareholders.
Our corporate mission statement, Weexistto make more lives better through connected technology, helps to define ourroleas a retailer in a unique position tokeep people connected and show themhowconnected technology can changetheir lives.
The Board is committed to operating a responsible and ethical business.
We listen to our customers, shareholders and employees, as well as local and wider communities to understand their expectations and ensure they are reflected in our business decisions.
Our priorities are to engage employees with our vision and values: tomake a noticeable difference in the communities inwhich we operate: to minimise our impact on the environment: and towork towards amore sustainablebusiness forthefuture.
HIGHLIGHTS 2013-14 During 201314 we set out to make even more lives Lawrence Dallaglio with youths involved in the Rugby for Change programme.
"New initiatives included: Carphone Warehouse was the first company to get behind headline sponsorship of the national Spring Online our life-enhancing Dallaglio Foundations Rugby for Change campaigntotackle digital and social exclusion: programme which aims to give young people the opportunity the first Tablets for Schools conference: and to make a mark on the world by giving them the means and a charity-driven fitness day to improve health inspiration to change their lives for the better, engaging awarenessandraise funds for the Dallaglio them through the power of rugby and sport. """
Lawrence Dallaglio OBE, Rugby for Change Rt.
David Blunkett MP and Andrew Harrison, Group CEO of Carphone Warehouse, at the first Tablets for Schools conference in November 2013.
We were delighted and privileged to have had CarphoneWarehouses support for Spring Online 2013.
Their involvement was instrumental in enabling local organisations to provide digital learning opportunities for communities.
Carphone Warehouses in-store taster events were a fantastic reflection of the organisations vision of making peoples lives better through technology.
Emma Solomon OBE, speaking at the National Digital Conference in June 2014.
Emma Solomon OBE, Managing Director, Digital Unite Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued CHARITY DALLAGLIO FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTIONS TO GOOD CAUSES 2013 -14 In August we ran an event called Game Changing Day in support of the Dallaglio Foundations Rugby for Change charity and its work with disadvantaged young people.
Store colleagues were encouraged to fundraise through team fun and games, and demonstrate fitness Get Connected apps and app-cessories to customers.
The Digital Unite Trust Over As part of the event Carphone Warehouse executives held Dallaglio Foundation acharitytennis tournament at The Queens Club.
The event via CPW Foundation 850K raisedatotal of 66,000. via Give as You Earn Tablets for Schools GET CONNECTED This registered charity is a free, confidential helpline for young people under the age of 25.
It provides a first point of contact for those in need of help, emotional support or advice.
Volunteers are trained to deal with young people in need using technology such astext, email, phone and webchat.
As a charity partner, our direct support of Get Connected has helped us indirectly touch the lives of thousands of young people through the years.
During 201314 contributions from the business through donations, gifts-in-kind and fundraising events enabled Get Connected to develop a unique service and significantly expand its reach with Store colleagues on Game Changing Day.
The annual Get Connected dinner and charity auction raised 217,000.
UK Support Centre colleagues on Game Changing Day.
Get Connected launched a new smartphone app during the year, placingitsservice directly into the hands of young people in need.
THE CARPHONE WAREHOUSE FOUNDATION The Carphone Warehouse Foundation supports employees with their own fundraising initiatives.
Funded through our Take Back handset recycling scheme, the foundation matches employee personal fundraising efforts with grants of up to 200 per employee per annum, orupto500 for employee team efforts.
Senior executives taking part in a charity tennis tournament at The Queens Club.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 26 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT COMMUNITY USING OUR TECHNOLOGICAL EXPERTISE TO COMBAT DIGITAL AND SOCIAL EXCLUSION The Tablets for Schools conference in December was attended by over 400schoolteachers from across the UK.
"TABLETS FOR SCHOOLS ""T4S"" T4S is a registered charity established by Carphone Warehouse inpartnership with Dixons Retail plc and other industry leaders."
Thecharity is passionate about the positive effect of using tablets inthe classroom and brings together teachers, industry leaders andacademics using robust and independent research on how tablets can impact learning and attainment.
The T4S research and expertise on how to set up and optimise the use of tablets are Our experts sharing technology tips during the Spring Online campaign.
madefreely available to teachers, schools and the Government.
FOR MORE INFORMATION DIGITAL UNITE WWW.
UK CPW was the headline sponsor of Spring Online, one of the UKs largest digital inclusion campaigns, and thereby played SAFER INTERNET DAY arole in helping an estimated 20,000 people mostly older Organised by Insafe, Safer Internet Day is held once a year.
It aims people to use smartphones, tablets and the internet for the to promote safer and more responsible use of online technology firsttime.
Spring Online provided an engaging and innovative andmobile phones, especially amongst young people.
CPW helped opportunity to attract new customers and make a positive promote this important campaign, leveraging its relationships with impact on our communities.
Our sponsorship fee went directly Get Connected and Tablets for Schools to help provide support for to supporting dedicated digital taster events within communities young people against online threats such as cyber-bullying, harmful across the country.
Furthermore, our store colleagues online movements and pornography.
We also aim to support parents volunteered to host similar events in store, demonstrating and help them understand the risks that can be associated with keyfunctions such as how to send an email or a text message.
buying achild their first mobile phone, so as to help protect young Our support of this initiative won a Corporate Engagement people from illegal or anti-social activity.
In recent years we have 2013award for Best alignment with brand values through published our Guide to Mobile Safety, which is available on our partnership or collaboration as well as a Digital Impact corporate website.
NEIGHBOURLY FOR MORE INFORMATION Carphone Warehouse is participating in the trial of the new social WWW.
COM network called Neighbourly, helping community projects and charitable causes highlight their needs to companies ready to help financially or through volunteering programmes.
For 201314, we pledged 25,000 and 2,500 volunteering hours to help support local causes through Neighbourly.
COM Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued ENVIRONMENT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING SCOPE OF REPORTED EMISSIONS Recent reports have yet again highlighted the major impact climate As far as possible, emissions data has been reported for our change is expected to have on our planet.
As a business, we are fully own stores and support centres in the United Kingdom, Spain, committed to minimising the impact of our operations on the the Netherlands, Germany, Portugal, Sweden, Ireland and environment.
During 2014 Carphone Warehouse was again awarded France.
In line with the regulatory requirements, this report the Carbon Saver Gold Standard for management and reduction includes emissions data for scope 1 and scope 2 only.
ofcarbon emissions across the organisation.
This year we report on greenhouse gas emissions for the first time in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and TOTAL EMISSIONS BY TYPE Directors' Report Regulations 2013.
Our greenhouse gas footprint For the period 1 April 2013 29 March 2014 Tonnes of CO e is36,208 tonnes of CO e. Working closely with Energy Quote JHA, 2 2 our energy consultants, where practicable and applicable, emissions Scope 1 include electricity, heat and cooling for our use, as well as Fuel combustion 2,800 and process refrigerants useacross our European territories.
emissions Total Scope 2 Electricity, heatand 33,408 36,208 Reporting year 1 April 2013 29 March 2014. cooling purchased forown use TCO e 2 Intensity metric Tonnes of CO e 14.1 Scope 2 2 perm of revenue Baseline year The reporting year forms the baseline for subsequent periods.
"Comparatives The current year is the first year to be USING TECHNOLOGY reported on using new methodology in accordance with the mandatory reporting requirements for greenhouse gas ""GHG"" TO MINIMISE emissions and as such there are no comparatives for the current year."
OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT Methodology The methodology used to calculate emissions is based on the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas WASTE Protocol Standard Revised Edition.
Our bin free policy in support and contact centres helps to ensure The operational control approach that employees recycle their waste on site and is a contributing factor wasselected as the basis for to our 100% landfill-free status, which the business has maintained identifying emissions that were since 2010.
In respect of our retail portfolio, according to waste relevant for reporting.
management and recycling specialist, BIFFA, we have increased recycling from 79% to an average of 85% year-on-year.
We are committed to recycling old handset components through Intensity Annual emissions associated with the ourTake Back handset recycling scheme.
Recycling bags are available metric Groups activities are expressed using tocustomers purchasing a new handset, encouraging them to revenue as the intensity metric.
sendus their old handsets so that we can dispose of the handsets responsibly.
During 201314, we recycled thousands of handsets, the estimated value of which was donated to The Carphone Warehouse Target 6% reduction by March 2015.
As part of the Take Back scheme, CPW is WEEE Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment compliant and committed to recycling and reusing old components.
The business offers a trade-in service whereby customers can trade in old devices for cash.
If the device doesnt have a trade-in value, it is recycled under the Take Back scheme mentioned above.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 28 Annual Report 2014 Scope 1 STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE We believe that the key to our success as a business is its exceptional group of colleagues who are innovative and creative, customer focused, great at building relationships, achievement driven and who can strike the perfect balance in the risks they take and the decisions they make.
2013 saw the return of the CPW ball with circa 6,000 colleagues in attendance.
Colleagues taking time out for yoga.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Our people are the Companys greatest asset and therefore its Healthy living is promoted through a number of initiatives and biggest investment.
Attracting and retaining the right people by facilities including on-site gyms in Acton, Warrington and Preston, ensuring they feel valued and rewarded is of the utmost importance.
where we also provide on-site canteens offering a range of foods We encourage two-way dialogue with colleagues, through a variety fora balanced diet.
Last summer, support centre employees took part in activities such Our teams are central to delivering the strategy for the business.
as touch rugby with the RFU, football skills with Queens Park Rangers Our annual OneTeam conference brings managers together to discuss football club, table tennis, golf, basketball, gym workouts and yoga the strategy of the business and the plan for its implementation going as well as enjoying complimentary massages and healthysnacks.
We also hold regular Town Hall meetings in our Acton Support is offered in other ways too.
The Employee Assistance support centre with a follow-on cascade to the rest of the business.
Programme offers a 24 7 online and telephone helpline for all of We use a balanced scorecard called Compass, based on the belief ouremployees, and an opportunity to speak to an independent, that engaged teams deliver great service, which, in turn, delivers impartial third party.
Colleague objectives and rewards are aligned We are pleased to be the headline sponsor of the Race to the Stones to this scorecard.
We measure the people element of our scorecard 2014.
This ultra-marathon challenge will be held over two days during using a colleague engagement survey called Pulse, which runs July 2014.
Around 180 employees have registered to take part in what twice a year.
promises to be a fun and fit weekend for all.
We have nominated Get Colleague feedback has influenced some of our biggest people Connected as the headline charity for this event, helping to increase initiatives over the last year including My Learning World, an online awareness for our charity partner.
To coincide with employee training learning platform has been designed to support our people by for the 2014 Carphone Warehouse Race to the Stones, a wider well-being providing relevant training and tools to help them carry out their campaign is being run to encourage employees to exercise and adopt roles to the best of their abilities.
Race to Fitness is a 25 week programme where employees exchange training tips, ask the experts and take part During the year we launched a sharesave scheme giving employees the inrunning clubs and local well-being initiatives.
chance to own a part of the company and share in its success.
Over 20% of employees registered under either a three-year or five-year scheme.
We want our people to enjoy working for the business.
We encourage a range of social activities and last year saw the return of the Carphone Warehouse Ball with circa 6,000 colleagues inattendance.
Employees get in training as part of our Race to Fitness campaign.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued EMPLOYEE GENDER SPLIT 2013-14 EMPLOYEE POLICIES Our relationship with employees is two-way and one of mutual Across the dependency, with moral duties arising from both sides.
We have Boardofdirectors developed a range of policies covering various areas of importance 14% Female 1 such as employee conduct, learning and development, parenting, Male 6 payroll and performance management.
Our policies help to ensure our people are treated fairly and that issues are resolved in a timely manner.
Our dignity at work and grievance policies provide formal and informal approaches to resolve workplace disputes.
Informal mediation is also available to assist colleagues in 86% constructively dealing with any workplace conflicts.
Our polices underpin our relationship with our people, as well as the relationship between colleagues, and help safeguard our close-knit business and fun, family environment.
Across senior management 17% Female 8 HEALTH AND SAFETY Male 38 The greatest importance is given to the health, safety and welfare ofour colleagues, temporary colleagues, visitors and members ofthe public.
Our health and safety policy states our intent to demonstrate an ongoing and determined commitment to improving health and safety throughout our organisation.
83% DIVERSITY CPW is committed to equality and values diversity within its Across all employees workforce.
We welcome applications from all suitably qualified Female 4,614 candidates and monitor statistics to ensure our workforce reflects Male 6,922 the diversity of the wider population.
Our attraction and selection strategies are continually reviewed and evaluated to achieve this 40% aim.
We take talent management seriously, ensuring we have the skills needed tomeet our growth strategies.
At CPW we also believe 60% in creating balanced, diverse teams and have particularly focused on increasing the number of female leaders inthe business.
ENHANCING THE HUMAN RIGHTS The Group respects human rights and is committed to avoiding anything that may infringe on the basic human rights of others.
DIVERSITY Wewelcome the implementation of the United Nations Guiding OF OUR BUSINESS Principles on Business and Human Rights and support the principles.
THROUGH TALENT GROWTH Due to the nature of our operations as a retailer, we believe that the direct risk of exploiting human rights is relatively low.
However, we recognise that there is a risk associated with the operations of the manufacturers we depend on for the products we sell.
The vast majority of our manufacturers are large corporations.
Having conducted a review during the year, we are satisfied that they have relevant and necessary policies in place to address human rights issues.
While we have little control over their adherence to their own policies, we obtain some comfort in that they are listed entities, answerable to shareholders and aware of the repercussions adverse human rights could have on their businesses.
We are not currently aware of any adverse direct or indirect human rights impacts.
THIS STRATEGIC REPORT was approved by the Board on 25 June 2014 and is signed onitsbehalf by: Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer Nigel Langstaff Chief Financial Officer Carphone Warehouse Group plc 30 Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CC OR OR PP OR OR AA TT EE G G OO VV EE RR NN AA NC NC EE 32 Board of directors 34 Chairmans introduction 36 Board committees 39 Audit Committee report 43 Remuneration report 54 Other statutory information 55 Statement of directors responsibilities Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 31
