34 Responsibility review A fair employer The Group is focused on creating an inclusive culture A flexible, supportive workplace where every Partner, regardless of gender, ethnicity, Support is provided to Partners to help make TSB agreat disability, sexual orientation, age or personal situation, place to work.
The Group has policies that enable Partners should be able to fulfil their potential and flourish.
to use flexible working, including working compressed hours, flexible hours and job sharing to meet personal commitments.
Disability The Group aims to be an inclusive organisation in which A culture of lifelong learning is being embedded within people with disabilities are treated fairly and on equal terms the organisation.
Every Partner is encouraged to have for career development and progression.
The Groups People apersonal development plan which they review regularly with Disabilities policy is designed to inform colleagues with with their line manager.
The TSB Academy guides disabilities of the support the Group will put in place for them Partners through all of the learning and development that and to inform all Partners how to access that support.
In 2014, amentoring scheme was launched Group will make every effort to retain Partners who develop toencourage informal learning at all levels of experience.
adisability via the provision of reasonable adjustments, including, A range of services are also in place to support the if necessary, redeployment to asuitable alternative vacancy.
An Employee Assistance Programme gives all Partners free access to confidential counselling This policy, along with arange of supporting initiatives, helps the Group to achieve this important goal.
The Group runs and professional advice and an Occupational Health aguaranteed interview scheme that internal candidates service allows line managers to refer Partners for medical with adisability can opt to use and plans to expand that assessments, to ensure support is available to facilitate Partner scheme to include external candidates in 2015.
During2014, action was taken to raise the profile managers are given the confidence to support Partners of the Groups wellbeing services, including road-shows, with adisability through the availability of online guidance briefings and the launch of anew Wellbeing website.
and the completion of annual disability awareness training.
Engaging and collaborative The Group is committed to becoming adisability confident During 2014 the Group made every colleague aPartner employer and is amember ofthe Business Disability Forum.
in the business by awarding them 100 of TSB shares Inclusion network and giving every Partner asense of shared ownership.
A key enabler in creating an inclusive culture was the launch Thepartnership model encourages all Partners to play an in 2014 of the Groups diversity network, Inclusion.
This aims active role in shaping the Groups business and strategy to help every Partner achieve their potential, focusing on three andis key to delivering consistently great customer service.
key themes: personal progression, work-life balance, and an The Link, aforum of Partners across all levels, was inclusive culture.
Executive sponsorship of each of the key established to gather and build on Partner feedback and audiences of gender, ethnic diversity, LGBT, disability, and enables meaningful dialogue between Partners and the Newto TSB further embeds the Groups approach in this area.
There are five regional Link Groups Gender diversity covering Britain, which together contain 101 Partners Gender balance of Partners is akey priority to ensure that the drawn from every part of our business.
The outputs from Group recruits from the widest resource pool and appoints every meeting are presented to the Executive Committee the best person for each role.
The gender split of the Board to help inform the Groups activity and strategic outlook.
is 27% female, and the Executive Committee is 42% female.
Partner feedback is also received through an annual Gender Number % engagement survey.
In our most recent survey, 75% of Partners responded.
Confidence in the Groups leadership remains Board Male 8 73 high at 82% while 90% of our Partners said they know and Female 3 27 understand the TSB values and live those values when at work.
Bank Executive Committee Male 7 58 Female 5 42 The Group encourages engagement with Partners and their Senior Managers Male 286 64 representatives based on transparency and acommitment to trust and respect in the workplace.
To do this, the Group Female 164 36 is reviewing its union relationships based on the TSB Managers Male 958 51 values and aims to give choice to Partners by recognising Female 932 49 three unions.
These relationships, coupled with The Link All Partners Male 2,776 32 and Interlink, an online forum accessible to all, provide Female 5,862 68 Partners with areal voice at the heart of the business.
Senior Managers includes members of the Bank Executive Committee except those who aremembers of the Board.
Collaboration is also encouraged through the recognition and celebration of Partner contribution.
This was demonstrated in 2014 with the launch of anew Say Thank You scheme which gives Partners the opportunity to recognise the contribution of Partners who role model the Groups values.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Being apart of The Link was one of the highlights of my year, as the opportunity to debate topics affecting both the Group and TSB Partners was something that doesnt come around often!
Jess ODwyer, TSB Partner TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
