31 Strategic report Responsibility review Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information A responsible business Being responsible is acore focus at TSB.
The Group is mindful of the impact its actions and decisions can have Commitments for 2015 on customers and local communities across Britain, as well as on its Partners.
Whether in its business The Group is proud of its achievements in 2014 and offering, relationships with the local communities for2015 commits to being: served, or the partnership model, the Group will always strive to deliver the best for all stakeholders.
A helpful neighbour by: Decentralising charity activity to enable Partners At TSB, five values underpin Partner behaviour.
tosupport local causes in their communities rather Theseare being Responsible, Transparent, thanasingle bank wide charity of the year: and Collaborative, Straightforward, and Pioneering.
These values are central to how the Group operates Providing additional funding to support Partner and from 2015 the Partner performance process will fundraising efforts to account for the end of the assess Partner behaviour against the values.
MatchedGiving arrangement with Lloyds Bank andBank of Scotland Foundations.
In 2014 the Group started afull review of its ethics policy and position on human rights.
While the Group does not A fair employer by: have aformal human rights policy, new guidance linked to Launching anew TSB Partner performance the Groups values, behaviours framework and conduct process, which aligns expected Partner behaviours strategy is being developed for completion in 2015. withthe Groups values: Integral to the Groups strategy and risk management is Embedding anew approach to remuneration an intention to be adifferent sort of bank, one which feels whichapplies to all Partners: and neighbourly with know how, and which acts with integrity.
In doing so, the Group aspires to be ahelpful neighbour, afair Completing the work to update the Groups ethics, employer, and aresponsible user of resources.
The report environmental and human rights position, governance that follows sets out commitments for 2015 and explains and leadership structure.
the progress made during 2014 to fulfil these aspirations.
A responsible user of resources by: Establishing an energy baseline and, where possible, resource utilisation targets to ensure the Groups growth strategy is delivered in aresponsible, sustainable and efficient manner: and Implementing smart meters across the Groups property estate to improve energy management and reporting.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
