Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Currency risk Liquidity Risk The Group trades in a number of currencies around the The Group seeks to ensure that it has access to an appropriate world, but reports its results in Sterling.
The Group therefore level of cash, other forms of marketable securities and has translation exposure to foreign currency exchange rate facilities to enable it to finance its ongoing operations on cost movements in these currencies, principally the US dollar effective terms.
Cash and cash equivalent balances are held andthe Euro, and transaction exposure within individual with the primary objective of capital security and availability, operations which undertake transactions in one currency with a secondary objective of generating returns.
requirements are monitored by the GTRC.
Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in foreign As a normal part of its operations, the Group faces liquidity currency exchange rates is set out in Note 25 to the riskthrough the risk of being required to fund transactions that Consolidated Financial Statements.
fail tosettle on the due date.
From a risk perspective, the most problematic scenario concerns fail to deliver transactions, Taxation risk where the business has received a security from the selling The risk of financial loss or misstatement as a result of counterparty and has paid cash in settlement of the same but non-compliance with regulations relating to direct, indirect or is unable to effect onward delivery of the security to the buying employee taxation.
The Group employs experienced qualified counterparty.
Such settlement fails give rise to a funding staff in key jurisdictions to manage this risk and in addition requirement, namely the cost of funding the security which uses professional advisers, as appropriate.
wehave failed to deliver until such time as the delivery leg is Pension obligation risk finally settled and we have received the associated cash.
The risk that the Group is required, in the short and medium term, The Group has addressed this funding risk by arranging to fund a deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
overdraft facilities to cover any failed to deliver trades, eitherwith the relevant settlement agent depository or Corporate Social Responsibility witha clearing bank.
Under such arrangements, the facility provider will fund the value of any failed to deliver trades until delivery of the security is effected.
Certain facility Governance providers require collateral such as a cash deposit or parent The Company continues its commitment to behave ethically company guarantee to protect them from any adverse and contribute to economic development while improving the mark-to-market movement and some also charge a funding quality of life of its workforce, as well as society at large.
fee for providing the facility.
The responsibility for social, ethical and environmental The Group is also exposed to potential margin calls from mattersrests with the Board, and is included in its Terms clearing houses and correspondent clearers, both in the UK ofReference.
The Chief Executive is the Board member andthe United States.
responsible for Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR.
In the event of a liquidity issue arising, the firm has recourse TheCompanys CSR Governance Committee was established to existing global cash resources, after which it could draw in2009 and comprises all members of the Companys Executive down on a 150m committed revolving credit line as Committee.
This Committee and its members in their executive additional contingency funding.
This facility remained roles continue to oversee and guide the CSR activities of the undrawn throughout 2014.
Company, reflecting the importance the Company places on this broad and visible area of responsibility.
Further details of the Groups borrowings and cash are providedin Notes 22, 25 and 31 to the Consolidated Business ethics FinancialStatements.
The Board expects the Company to maintain high standards of governance and of ethical behaviour throughout the business, Other Financial Risks and policies and procedures exist to ensure employees at all The nature and scope of the Groups operations mean that levels maintain the standards that are set and which are itisexposed to a number of other financial risks including expected of them.
interest rate risk, currency risk, taxation risks, and pension obligation risk.
The Company has a clear set of values namely Honesty, Integrity, Respect and Excellence.
These together form the Interest rate risk foundation of how the Company conducts its business, The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its cash deposits informing the principles under which the Company operates and on borrowings under bank facilities.
The Groups Sterling and the standards of behaviour that are required of all Notes carry interest at fixed rates.
Cash deposits are typically members of staff.
held at maturities of less than three months.
The GTRC periodically considers the Groups exposure to interest rate volatility.
Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in interest rates is set out in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 21 Strategic Report continued The Companys approach to ethical behaviour and corporate Staff welfare remains a serious matter for the Company, governance is documented in its policies and procedures, for especially given the demanding nature of the broking observance by all members of staff, and provides for: environment.
The great majority of Tullett Prebon employees work in an office environment and therefore there are no maintaining high standards of compliance and risk significant areas of risk to report.
Overall responsibility for management ultimately the responsibility of the staff welfare and the management of stress rests with ChiefExecutive, and monitored by the Board and business line management assisted by the Human Resources AuditCommittee: department.
This is supplemented by an Employee Assistance fully complying with legal and regulatory requirements in Programme which provides counselling and advice to staff each of the jurisdictions in which it operates, including the and their families, and the use of occupational health FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook and the Bank of specialists if required.
The Companys policies on health Englands Non-Investment Products Code: andsafety provideaformal framework and inform line management inthe discharge of their responsibilities prohibiting corrupt practices such as inappropriate inthisarea.
payments to any third party, directly or indirectly: Equal opportunities fully complying with tax laws in each of the jurisdictions in Tullett Prebon is committed to attracting, retaining developing which it operates relating to its affairs and the deduction of and advancing the most qualified persons without regard to taxes from staff remuneration: their race, ethnicity, religion or belief, gender, age, sexual trading fairly, knowing its clients and properly orientation or disability.
This commitment is underpinned by understanding its trades with its clients.
The Company policies on equal opportunities, harassment and discrimination, hasapolicy of not participating in trading activities which to which all employees are required to adhere.
itsuspects may not be for legitimate trading purposes, In the event that an employee becomes disabled, the orwhose sole purpose appears to be tax reduction by Groupspolicy is to make reasonable adjustments, including thecounterparty: arranging training, to enable the employee to continue guiding employees involved in procurement activities, working for the Group.
including a requirement to adhere to the highest ethical and At 31 December 2014 the Companys Board comprised one social standards: and woman and six men: the senior managers of the Company maintaining appropriate guidelines on gifts, hospitality, excluding the Board comprised two women and 49 men: entertainment and conflicts of interest.
andthe Group employed 522 women and 2,090 men.
In formulating its policies, the Group has due regard to human Key performance indicators rights considerations.
Records on employment matters are maintained as required ineach legal and regulatory jurisdiction.
Key performance Employees indicators are as follows: Attracting and retaining the best brokers, management, professional and other support staff remains crucial to the The Company employed 2,536 full time equivalent Companys ongoing success and management recognises that employees and Directors worldwide in 2014 47% in Europe, the Companys ability to maximise returns to shareholders is 31% in the Americas and 22% in Asia Pacific compared with dependent on employing and retaining the best staff in all the 2,603 staff in 2013 47% in Europe, 31% in the Americas and geographies in which it operates.
The Company is committed 22% in Asia Pacific.
Total remuneration for all staff in 2014 to developing and motivating its staff and offers training excluding payments made under the cost improvement where appropriate and measures performance to achieve programme was 409m 2013: 483m : and thisobjective.
The table below sets out the retention levels across In 2014, the Company invested in a new intranet to further theGroup: assist with employee engagement.
The Company maintains 2014 effective internal communications channels at both Group EMEA and regional levels to ensure staff are informed in a timely way about major developments in the business, such as 5 years service 24% andfinancial and regulatory announcements, our culture, 10 years service 36% organisational changes, launch of new products and key Americas hires.
Information is provided to employees regularly via theCompanys intranet site, desktops, poster sites, print 5 years service 17% collateral and town hall meetings, as appropriate.
10 years service 33% Asia Pacific 5 years service 30% 10 years service 20% 22 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Social and community issues Tax and other social payments The Company continues to maintain a Low Risk rating from HMRC.
The Company has earned this Low Risk rating in each ofthe last seven years since HMRC started to disclose the names of those companies achieving this important status.
Tullett Prebon is registered, regulated and publicly listed in the UK and will continue to pay the right amount of tax at the right time.
Tullett Prebon made payments to tax authorities in the UK and the United States the main jurisdictions in which it operates for 2014 of 189m 2013: 235m, comprising corporation tax, premises taxes, employers social security payments, income taxes and social security paid on behalf of employees and VAT sales taxes.
In addition, the Company makes further tax payments to the tax authorities in other taxjurisdictions in which it operates.
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-byCountry Reporting Regulations 2013, effective 1 January 2014.
The legislation requires Tullett Prebon plc to publish additional information, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014, by 31 December 2015.
This information will be available by this date on Tullett Prebons website, www.
Donations The Company has maintained the policy of making no donations to political parties.
Similarly, charitable donations arenot normally allowed.
These two policies reflect the Boards view that shareholders funds should be retained for use within the business and that it is for shareholders to determine what non-business use should be made of their resources.
Environment Tullett Prebon, as an office-based business, is not engaged inactivities that are generally regarded as having a high environmental impact.
However, the Board has agreed that it will seek to adopt policies to safeguard the environment to meet statutory requirements or where such policies are commercially sensible.
The emission of greenhouse gases as a result of office-based business activities and from business travel is the Companys main impact on the environment and statistics relating to these emissions are set out in the Directors Report.
The Company also measures its annual carbon footprint.
Details of which can be found in the Directors Report.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 23
