Our people and corporate responsibility We are committed to investing in our people and providing them with opportunities to succeed in their career development.
Employees Charitable activity We are committed to investing in our people and providing them with The Group strives to make a positive difference to charitable causes, opportunities to succeed in their career development.
encouraging charitable giving by our employees and contributing toemployees development by supporting their charitable efforts.
The strong culture of innovation and transparency within the Group has Under the Groups payroll giving scheme, employees can donate helped us to attract high-calibre personnel, maintain a strong retention taxefficiently to a charity directly through their pre-tax salary.
rate of key staff and create a workforce that is dedicated to delivering TheGroup then matches donations up to a specific amount.
We are constantly investing in our people to ensure that this continues.
We achieve this through providing The Group also donates up to 100 to a registered charity linked to the appropriate support needed from the very beginning in the form of anemployees personal fundraising activities.
Employees may also a comprehensive induction training programme and we supplement take one days paid leave every year to donate their time to a charity.
this with continual training through the Zoopla Property Group Training The Group is a patron supporter of the Princes Trust, having been Academy.
This aspect of learning and development is in addition to acorporate member since 2012. the long-term career planning and constant opportunities provided The Group donated atotalof94,552 to charityduring2014 toemployees to upgrade and transfer their skills in the workplace.
Wedo not have a specific human rights policy, but we respect human rights and the integrity of individuals and comply with relevant laws Equal opportunity and diversity inthe way we run the business.
The Group is committed to ensuring that there is equal opportunity We hold regular Group-wide meetings to drive communication within and diversity in our employment policies and practices.
We believe the Group and to offer a forum where employees are recognised for thatrecruiting, incentivising and retaining the best talent is key to their performance in the workplace.
This is an opportunity for employees theGroups success and that this involves treating everyone equally to nominate departments and fellow employees for their outstanding regardless of their age, sexual orientation, parental responsibilities, work and for the Group to acknowledge employees hard work.
disability, race, nationality, ethnic origin, membership of a trade union, religion, belief, gender assignment or gender.
We also offer market competitive benefit packages and carry out regular internal remuneration benchmarking across the business to ensure that Gender diversity ZPG Limited as at 30 September 2014 our staff are rewarded appropriately.
Our comprehensive employee benefits package include more traditional elements such as multiple Male Female Total Male Female bonus schemes, life assurance, private health insurance and a private Number Number Number % % pension scheme.
We also listen to our employees and continually Directors 8 1 9 89% 11% adopt innovative suggestions to add to the benefits package, creating a benefits programme designed for our staff needs, with some examples Senior Management1 4 4 8 50% 50% being a move day benefit where employees are entitled to one days All other employees 119 98 217 55% 45% paid leave when they move house, together with John Lewis vouchers, a birthday off benefit where employees are entitled to take their birthday Total 131 103 234 56% 44% off work in addition to their holiday entitlement, and a help-to-buy scheme where the Group provides a 12 month interest-free loan 1 Senior Management comprises the Groups Leadership Team.
tohelp towards the cost of buying a home.
A recent Best Companies employee survey showed that 91% ofrespondents felt proud to be part of the Group.
22 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Health and safety The Groups scope 1 and 2 emissions for the year to 30 September 2014 We are committed to maintaining a safe workplace for our employees.
Scope 1 emissions relate to the Groups fleet of It is therefore our policy that all of the Groups facilities, products and vehicles which are used by certain employees for business purposes.
services comply in all material respects with applicable laws and Scope 2 emissions relate to the Groups electricity usage.
This regulations governing safety and quality.
information is set out below: CO emissions Emissions per employee 2 Environment We continue to support energy efficiency throughout our business Tonnes CO e number 2 Tonnes CO e of employees activities and remain conscious of preventing any negative impact 2 wemay have on the environment.
Scope 1 emissions 368 1.7 As an online property portal, we naturally operate mostly without Scope 2 emissions 154 0.7 theneed to print out substantial amounts of paper, a practice which we will continue to maintain.
Part of our staff work from two floors Total 522 2.4 ofan office building and another group of sales staff drive to meet member clients in designated geographies.
We believe that our impact We have measured our greenhouse gas emissions using emissions factors on the environment is kept to a minimum.
We encourage our staff to from the UK Government conversion factors for Company Reporting.
take our responsibilities towards protecting the environment seriously The period covered is that of the financial year to 30 September 2014. with a commitment to recycling in the office and automated lights in In order to provide an intensity ratio for our emissions disclosure we alloffice areas.
have calculated our greenhouse gas emissions per employee.
The Directors believe that the number of employees is the best indicator Furthermore, the Group operates a Bike-to-Work scheme which ofthe Companys size for the purposes of this disclosure.
The number offers our employees an incentive to travel to and from work in an of employees used is the average number of full-time employees over environmentally friendly way.
Greenhouse gas emissions This strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors Since 1 October 2013 the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and was signed on its behalf by: andDirectors Report Regulations 2013 has required all UK quoted companies to report on their greenhouse gas emissions as part of theirannual Directors report.
A report on our output of greenhouse gas emissions shows that, when Alex Chesterman compared with other companies of a comparable size in the same sector, Chief Executive Officer the Groups activities produce a very low impact on the environment.
24 November 2014 Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
