Strategic report Corporate social responsibility statement Dear shareholders The Committee is I am presenting this report in my capacity as Chairman responsible for making of the HSES Committee, a committee of the Board of Centamin plc.
recommendations to the The Committee is responsible for making recommendations Board on all matters in to the Board on all matters in connection with issues of the environment, workplace health and safety, and the connection with issues of development of sustainable engagement with communities the environment, workplace and stakeholders.
health and safety, and In compliance with the reporting requirements set out in the Committees Charter, during the year the HSES Committee the development of worked closely with management to: sustainable engagement develop and implement HSES policies in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire following the acquisition of Ampella with communities and Mining Limited in 2014: stakeholders.
develop internal reporting to help identify and mitigate events which impact upon the lost time due to injury LTI frequency rate: review monthly and quarterly reporting on corporate sustainable development CSD issues and initiatives: Trevor Schultz review environmental, health, safety and contingency Chairman of the HSES Committee planning issues: and receive updates, reports and associated KPIs in relation to new and existing initiatives designed to support local social and environmental projects.
46 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information We aspire to the highest standard of corporate social responsibility and take our duty to ensure safe and sustainable operations very seriously at all stages, from initial and advanced exploration through to production.
Key issues were raised by the Committee during the year, In addition, the Committee considered the sustainability such as the need to remove or reduce the scrap yard at and environmental issues in relation to the newly acquired Sukari and understanding the improvements quarter on resource in Burkina Faso.
The Committee were encouraged quarter in HSES records.
The Committee was encouraged by the proposals set out in the EIA for Burkina Faso which by the following during the year: allowed the Committee to consider the likely resource needs for future operational activity.
improvements in LTIFR during Q3 2014 which remained at low levels over the course of the year although slightly The report below covers the key HSES issues for Sukari and above 2013 and higher than target rates : concludes with information relating to the newly acquired resource in Burkina Faso.
hygiene standards improved progressively during the year: regular and progressive training programmes at Sukari: Trevor Schultz and Chairman of HSES Committee management of the scrap area at Sukari.
23 March 2015 The Committee visit Sukari at least annually and take the opportunity to meet with senior personnel onsite as well as members of the HSES department.
This helps the Committee have a clear understanding of the controls, procedures and HSE practices in place onsite.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 47 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility statement continued Health, Safety, Environmental and Case study tool box talk Sustainability Committee The tool box talks are an effective and easy tool for The Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability safety communication.
Full time trainers are available in Committee members at the date of this report almost all operational departments to provide infield are Trevor Schultz Chairman, Mark Bankes and training and coaching for the work force.
Tool box talks Kevin Tomlinson, all of whom are independent directors before shifts are used to address safety issues, tips and of the Company.
Bob Bowker, who retired in January 2015, lessons learnt.
served as Chairman of the Committee during 2014.
The talk provides an environment for interactive Health and safety discussion and promotes a safety conscious culture.
The Company strives for a harm free, healthy and This timely safety communication addresses numerous productive work place.
We have invested in robust systems, safety aspects and supplements formal training.
procedures and controls to manage occupational health and Our safety professionals are continuously developing safety risks to an acceptable level.
These working practices material for the talks in a simple form using brief text, allow us to comply with local legislation, licence and permit photos and drawings.
The tool has proved to be a very conditions, as well as international best practice standards.
successful method of continuous safety learning.
In 2014, we maintained low levels of lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR whereby we aim to operate in an Training injury free environment, however 2014 was above our target A training plan is set and safetyspecific training is rolled and slightly above our 2013 rate.
to employees based on business and employee needs.
All training is undertaken by the onsite HSE department.
Safety conscious culture Safety is the responsibility of each and every employee Mandatory training is rolled out for all departments, including members of staff, senior management and heads areaspecific training, field training and coaching.
of department and the level of safety is a function of the The following areas highlight the Companys commitment collective behaviour of all individuals.
Accordingly we invest to a comprehensive training programme which we believe in maintaining a safety conscious culture in our work place, provide the best means of reducing work place incidents: encouraging individual accountability for working safely.
This is done via ongoing training and safety initiatives as set a tailored safety induction programme for new out further below.
employees, contractors and visitors: We continuously work on developing the safety culture of incident investigation: our employees through strengthening their accountability training modules addressing job hazard analysis, risk for the safe conduct of work place and imbedding the assessments, incident investigations, work permits, first concepts of doing work the right safe way.
Safety is aid, fire extinguishing, and hazard identification: and discussed at preshift meetings, daily planning meetings technical competence tuition, such as isolation training, and weekly safety meetings.
Safety alerts are also lifting procedures, confined space entry, hot work and periodically issued and sent to all employees.
Environmental policy Training is repeated regularly through refresher courses An environmental policy has been established with the and employees are all tested to ensure a high level of aim of ensuring environmental protection and sustainable understand and application.
The policy is based on pollution prevention and abatement approaches to protect the environment, Proactive approach and emergency response planning community and indigenous people.
Centamin implements a rigorous approach to emergency preparedness and response.
Such programmes represent an The environmental management scheme for the Sukari important element of our safety management system.
Being Project includes a monitoring programme designed to alert and fully prepared for any emergency should minimise evaluate compliance with local environmental laws and the magnitude and consequences for any unprecedented regulations, company policies and international best event.
We have developed a detailed emergency plan with practices.
It provides information for periodic review full emergency response procedures for different scenarios.
and adjustment of the environmental management plan ensuring that environmental protection is achieved through early detection and mitigation of negative environmental impacts.
48 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information We require all contractors operating onsite to adhere to Case study establishing a capable the Companys health and safety policies and procedures.
emergency team We ensure they have the same health and safety induction Creating and maintaining a qualified emergency team training and also have full access to the health services is an essential element of emergency preparedness.
available to our employees onsite.
At Sukari, we have structured a very competent Evaluating safety performance and safety response and rescue team to be immediately and performance indicators efficiently mobilised in case of emergency situations.
The monitoring systems in place address: The team has received ample training and was coached for a year by a resident emergency response expert.
workplace and occupational health parameters: The capacity building programme includes theoretical fitness to work: and and practical training as well as drills to simulate adherence to procedures and standards.
The team is equipped with the required response equipment, supplies and The performance evaluation is undertaken by an inhouse rescue facilities.
A training plan is implemented to team and reviewed by a third party.
Monitoring includes the ensure full competence of the team.
collation of data, medical surveillance, auditing and visual inspection, as well as systematic observation of the work Our emergency arrangements include fire response and behaviour of staff.
drills, fire control panel testing with manual call points and smoke detectors, foam and water fire Reactive or responsive evaluation is also undertaken to suppression systems as well as a fire truck for intense investigate and analyse incidents and identify root causes fires.
A medical evacuation scheme MEDIVAC is in to help implement corrective measures.
place supported by first aid facilities, a fully equipped Employees and contractors are encouraged and expected clinic with doctors and qualified nurses as well as an to report all hazards and nearmisses for investigation and ambulance for transportation to the nearest medical analysis.
This embodies the principles adopted by the centres or hospitals.
In addition, we coordinate with HSES policies and procedures that everyone shares and external entities and authorities for support during a contributes in a responsible manner to creating a safe fire.
These include the local fire station, air transport working environment.
A core element of our management system is to assess our Risk assessment is integrated into all operational activities safety performance and identify needs for improvement.
onsite and we continuously evaluate potential and actual hazards, their probability and likely outcomes to determine the level of risk and appropriate risk mitigation and safeguards.
A variety of different procedures and systems have been developed and implemented including the Work Permit System and Job Hazard Analysis for new and nonrecurrent activities.
Briefing meeting before shift Our approach towards emergency preparedness and response planning is detailed, rigorous and wellrehearsed, ensuring the mine is fully prepared for any conceivable emergency.
In 2014, we rehearsed 102 emergency drills of different types at Sukari.
An inspection programme operates to ensure all emergency response equipment is maintained and is fit for purpose at all times.
Contractor management Contractors are integrated into the Companys health and safety onsite programme whether for long periods of time or for short assignments and contractor safety is a key element of our safety management system.
Currently there are nearly 500 permanent contractors at Sukari.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 49 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility statement continued Our safety performance in 2014 saw a considerable Case study traffic safety on site improvement in the medical treated injury MTI frequency rate, with a small increase in our lost time injury LTI Traffic safety at Sukari is a key aspect of our safety frequency rate.
We have had no fatal incidents at Sukari.
We have a welldeveloped system of standards for traffic management and ensure The monitoring plan at Sukari covers the following the safe interaction of surface mobile equipment key areas: on roads, within and adjoining the site property and facilities.
workplace environment to detect areas that might need further controls: A permit system at Sukari is adopted for site driving stability of structures to detect any potential movement, with more stringent requirements for inpit driving.
cracks or other instabilities: Different areas of site have set speed limits and are equipped with traffic signage showing instructions to occupational health parameters to detect health impacts follow.
Vehicle prestart checking is a fixed practice due to workrelated matters: each shift.
fitness to work to detect cases under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs: and All vehicles are equipped with specialised safety implementation of safety procedures and standards to features, flashlights and whip aerials and flags for ensure they are adhered to and well assimilated.
Road maintenance, grading and sheeting are routinely carried out to maintain a Monitoring methodology includes measurements, consistent gradient and smooth surface.
Inspection is medical surveillance, auditing, visual inspection, as well as periodically undertaken to make sure procedures and systematic observation of the work and behaviour of staff.
Measurements are performed through inhouse capabilities as well as thirdparty entities.
A defensive driving practical training course is rolled out to operators and evaluations are The information collated from these processes is reported periodically undertaken.
to the Committee on a monthly and quarterly basis.
The evaluation of our safety performance is essential to 2014 2013 2012 2011 indicate the effectiveness of our systems and controls and Frequency Frequency Frequency Frequency 1 1 1 1 rate rate rate rate identify opportunities for continuous improvement.
Fatality FA Lost time injury LTIF 0.39 0.36 0.69 1.25 Medical treatment Face shovel in open pit injury MTIF 0.39 1.28 1.37 1.07 1 based on 200,000 working hours We are now focusing on our exploration project in Batie to ensure the full integration of health and safety procedures and systems.
Data is being reported periodically to feed into Centamins performance monitoring system performance.
50 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Health and wellbeing Our employees and contractors Sukari has a wellequipped clinic providing health and Our people are core to the success of our business.
emergency related services on a 24 7 basis.
A doctor and Accordingly, we actively invest in securing the full spectrum qualified nurse manage the clinic and provide professional of skills and competencies needed for effective operations.
It is also equipped to respond The Companys activities provide direct and indirect to emergency situations.
An equipped ambulance is employment, training and work experience to many continuously on call to transfer any cases that need higher Egyptian nationals, as well as creating an immediate medical treatment to the Marsa Alam hospital, about 40km revenue stream for the local economy and the Egyptian away from Sukari.
Medical tests, including blood analysis, are conducted Our workforce has witnessed considerable growth since we particularly for laboratory personnel and those working with started production in 2010, both in terms of the number chemicals and metals.
Health tests are also mandatory for of employees and the range of skills and expertise now people working in the kitchen.
Our health programme has a special focus on food safety In Egypt, we employ 1,296 people of whom 95% are and hygiene, given we have a large mess that provides meals Egyptian nationals and 5% are experienced mining to about 1,500 employees and contractors per day.
In 2014, professionals, which is well below the legal percentage of a wellbeing programme focused on hygiene and food 10% as per the Egyptian laws.
Approximately 50% of our safety management was undertaken, with inhouse hygiene Egyptian nationals are from upper Egypt, the area where professionals supervising, inspecting and auditing standards Sukari is situated, which typically has less economic activity at Sukari as well as periodic external audits.
In 2014, the than the more prosperous areas around the Nile Delta.
programme yielded very satisfactory results and a higher level of hygiene was achieved and maintained.
Detected Only 1% of our Egyptian workforce are women, mainly discrepancies were addressed by corrective actions.
because social conditions in Egypt and in the Middle East in general do not encourage the work of female employees in In 2014, the following audits were also carried out and the remote sites away from their children.
A greater percentage outcomes were as follows: of women are employed throughout the Centamin administrative offices.
internal environmental audits confirmed the results were within acceptable limits: The table below sets out the number of people employed water quality testing carried out by an external laboratory by the Group excluding contractors by country, during the confirmed no major anomalies: years stated.
air quality audits conducted by Cairo University recorded no anomalies and confirmed that Sukari was compliant with required standards: and emissions were reported to be at safe levels, as required by Egyptian law and international standards set by the World Bank.
The number of contractors onsite at Sukari, Egypt during the year averaged 491 individuals.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 51 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility statement continued Human resources principles Capacity building and development Our policies set out the Companys approach and principles We strongly encourage and support our employees to be in regard to human resource management, recruitment and selfmotivated and to realise their career potential.
Our policies aim to ensure that: with all our employees closely and encourage those who show keenness and desire to develop new personal skills new or current employees are not discriminated against and experience.
by the Company due to their religion, nationality or political views or background: We value regular communication and feedback with employees which helps enhance the efficiency, effectiveness all employees have the opportunity for promotion based and safety of everyday activities and overall operational on their ability to perform the relevant job, without performance.
regard to personal characteristics that are unrelated to job requirements: NonEgyptian foreign experts are required onsite for harassment of employees by anyone and in any way is their expertise and experience in the mining industry, not tolerated: and to enable their skills and experiences to be shared under programmes to further train and develop Egyptian forced and compulsory labour are not allowed in any nationals.
Around 5% of the Sukari workforce are work related to our activities: experienced expatriate mining personnel and 95% of all employees are entitled to a safe, healthy work the workforce at Sukari are Egyptian nationals which is environment, and each employee is accountable for his increasing further as new and existing employees gain more or her HSE performance in the Company: skills and experience.
Moreover, more Egyptians are being we are committed to the highest ethical standards and promoted to higher managerial levels.
behaviour and our Code of Conduct requires adherence to our principles and promotes confidence in the In addition to creating a positive work environment, the integrity of the Company: and Company believes it is important that employees enjoy their time before and after work.
The majority of our child labour is prohibited, whether in our permanent people live in the Sukari camp, and thus we have invested employment or in contractors workforces.
in a variety of leisure facilities such as playing fields, a Contractors are required by their agreements to abide by gymnasium, a library, internet access, satellite television and these requirements, and followup checks are undertaken a swimming pool.
Special barbecue dinners are also held seeking to establish that our conditions are met.
at the beach or around Sukari and sports tournaments are regularly organised.
We expect every one of our employees to uphold our core values of honesty and integrity.
All employees are encouraged to treat their fellow colleagues with respect, dignity and common courtesy.
We believe this will foster a safe working environment.
Annual performance appraisals are undertaken for all employees.
The appraisal covers several areas including the employees job knowledge, skills attained during the year, quality of work and initiative and innovation.
The review is undertaken by the immediate supervisor and the appraisal performance is agreed with the section head.
The appraisal process also identifies the need for training or coaching, modified responsibilities or opportunities to undertake more challenging roles and responsibilities.
Training conducted onsite with employees and contractors 52 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information The environment Water management and groundwater protection Our policies outline our commitment to environmental We recognise responsible water use is a key component for responsibility.
Safeguarding the environment, and coaching our sustainability programme and our policies commit us to and training our employees to reduce the impact of our conserve natural resources.
activities are essential parts of our operations.
As a result, we closely monitor our water use, strive to We remain committed to maintaining, and whenever reduce our water footprint and take steps to safeguard possible exceeding, the high level of environmental water quality.
performance that we have achieved during 2014.
Water is a critical component to our processes and thus it Maintaining an environmentally responsible culture is essential to secure a sustainable source of water for our operations.
In an area with limited fresh water resources or We run a wellestablished programme for training and municipal water, we rely on a sea water intake and pipeline awareness of environmental impacts.
The programme from the Red Sea to provide a sustainable water supply to addresses different environmental fields including the mine.
chemical management, waste management, emissions and water conservation, as well as general environmental As a secondary source of water, we have beach wells where management practices.
sea water infiltrates into groundwater.
We have desalination plants for generating fresh water for the process plant and An environmental and social impact assessment for domestic use.
ESIA was prepared as part of the project feasibility study at Sukari.
We strive to maintain high standards The sea water pumped to site is used, and reused of environmental performance and meet, and when throughout the process plant ensuring maximum usage of practical exceed relevant legal requirements.
The system is this resource without needlessly taking more water from the supported by a robust documentation system that ensures intake pipeline.
the maintenance of required registers, documents and renewal of required permits.
Groundwater protection measures have been incorporated in the design of the tailing storage facility and other Resource management components where a layer of gypsum and a HPDE liner Systems and procedures are in place to ensure correct are used to prevent seepage.
Workshops have concrete and safe handling of chemicals and hazardous materials.
working areas to prevent seepage.
Five monitoring bores are downstream from the tailing storage facility to detect Risk assessments are carried out for handling and usage any potential contamination.
In 2014, the monitoring of of all chemicals and hazardous materials.
Controls include these bores showed no contamination.
containment, automatic alarms and shutoff systems.
Preventative maintenance programmes for tanks and Desalinated water used in camps and offices is tested to equipment are also in place.
Emergency response plans ensure its quality accords with chemical and bacteriologic and facilities ranging from spill kits and eye wash stations parameters.
Bottled water used for drinking is also to chemical suits address potential requirements for periodically tested as a double check on suppliers and responding to chemical or hazardous waste spillages storage procedures.
All samples are compliant with or incidents.
We fully acknowledge the importance of managing 3 In 2014, we used a total of 8,298,474m per year with an chemicals in a sound manner so as to minimise harm 3 increase of 82% on 2013 4,210,886m due to the expansion to the environment or the health of employees.
About 99% of the water consumed at communication and chemical management handling is Sukari is sea water and therefore there is no impact on fresh a core component of our training programme and our water resources.
The systems in place set safe conditions for the transportation, storage, labelling and handling of chemicals.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 53 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility statement continued Energy CO 2 Fuel CO equivalent Marsa Alam, the region in which the Sukari mine is located, 2 consumption equivalent per ounce is a remote area with no direct connection to any power litres tonnes of gold grid.
The city has its own power plant whose capacity is 2013 80,228,770 229,181 0.64 only sufficient for residential use not industrial needs.
2014 109,422,636 308,146 0.82 Consequently, the project at Sukari powers the entire processing plant through its own onsite diesel Forecast emissions based on the 2014 intensity and power station.
targeted production of 420,000 oz yr are estimated at 344,400 CO equivalent tonnes.
In 2014, Sukari consumed a total of 109,422,636 litres of 2 diesel, an increase of 36% from 2013s 80,228,770 litres.
A review of alternative fuel sources to supply the processing This was due to the construction phase and the consequent plant is ongoing, but to date there have been no expanded plant.
About 66% of this quantity is used in viable alternatives.
power generation and the rest is used in operating mobile equipment and vehicles and in operation.
Calculation of the direct greenhouse gases GHG emissions is based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories.
In 2014, the Sukari mine 1 generated 308,146.6 tonnes of CO equivalent against 2 production of 377,261 oz yr.
The emissions intensity for 2014 was 0.82 tonnes of CO equivalent per ounce of gold 2 produced for 2014.
This is compared to the consumption of 80,228,770 litres of diesel in 2013 to produce 356,943 oz yr. Diesel power station onsite The GHG generated in 2013 was 229,181.4 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent, with 0.64 emissions intensity.
1 Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions occurring from sources that are controlled directly through the operating company, Sukari Gold Mines.
There are no material external purchases of power.
Exploration beyond Sukari and overheads occurring at the corporate offices in other locations are not considered material for the purposes of these calculations.
Case study creating value from garbage Our solid waste management system acknowledges the value of garbage and sees it as a benefit for others.
We adopt a system for waste segregation at source.
We segregate our food waste from other inorganic waste in the kitchen.
Employees dispose of waste in the different designated bins.
The food waste bins are stored in the waste refrigerator overnight to preserve the food until HEPCA, our solid waste contractor collects both types of wastes.
HEPCA, the Hurghada Environmental Protection and Conservation Association is our partner in the solid waste management system.
As per our mutual agreement, our organic waste is delivered to neighbouring Bedouins to be used as animal fodder.
The inorganic waste is mechanically processed by HEPCA in preparation for further processing in specialised recycling facilities.
The material recovery unit is totally operated by Bedouin employees who were trained and are now working in different positions in the unit.
We are very proud that we are part of this community development project.
54 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Emissions, effluents and wastes Programmes are in place to manage emissions, effluents, nonprocess waste, waste rock and tailings.
All our industrial water streams are recirculated within our operations.
Sewage is treated in a tertiary wastewater treatment plant and the treated water is used in landscaping.
To ensure effective performance periodic checks and inspections are conducted on the treated wastewater.
Our monitoring activities in 2014 confirmed that we remained within legal requirements and international best practice standards in respect of the following areas: ambient air quality in the camp area in terms of dust and emissions : dust concentration in different work areas: noise and illumination: work environment emissions, including carbon Processing plant at Sukari monoxide, sulphur dioxide and ammonia: stack emissions due to fuel combustion: quality of treated wastewater: and While we maintained careful monitoring of areas of potential concern, such as migratory bird movement across the area, quality of groundwater.
there were no incidents reported of adverse impact on We maintain a salvage area where valuable wastes are wildlife as a result of operations at Sukari during 2014. temporarily stored until transferred offsite or recycled in Land management and rehabilitation different areas onsite.
Mining is a business that deals directly with natural The waste management system in place at Sukari, Egypt resources and it is inevitable that land will be disturbed.
sets out the correct handling of storage and disposal of For our part, we are committed to leaving a positive legacy waste material.
The system is focused on: for coming generations and development initiatives.
waste minimisation through adequate storage Accordingly, upon closure, the goal is to transfer Sukari management to avoid stockpiling: to a stable and selfsustaining condition, after taking into maximising onsite recycling and reuse of different types account the beneficial uses of the site and surrounding land.
of wastes: Due consideration will be given to environmental and social impacts to avoid longterm challenges for parties that live recovery of valuable material: close by or depend on the area.
reuse of treated wastewater streams: and The planning for the closure of the mine aims to ensure disposal of material in an environmentally that mining activities are soundly phased out, the mine is acceptable manner.
closed in an environmentally proper manner, a physically A key focus for the Committee has been improving the rate and chemically stable landform is maintained, with minimal in which waste material is transferred offsite or recycled.
erosion and minimal potential for dust generation and that the hazards are reduced to levels equal to or below those Biodiversity naturally existing within the surrounding environment.
Centamin is committed to protecting the wildlife unique to the eastern desert by minimising the impact of our A draft restoration and rehabilitation plan is updated operations on the environment.
We are conscious that each year.
A provision for restoration and rehabilitation the sea near Sukari is renowned for its crystalclear water, is included in the annual budget.
The provision for future and includes a variety of coral reefs and marine biota.
restoration costs is the best estimate of the present value of The desert environment is characterised by its scarce the expenditure required to settle the restoration obligation terrestrial biodiversity resources, and the area of Marsa at the reporting date.
Alam also includes the Wadi ElGemal Protectorate, In addition to the longterm rehabilitation plan, we one of Egypts largest environmental protectorates, undertake shortterm rehabilitation and restoration activities with about 100km of pure beach and desert landscapes.
especially for construction sites and for spills.
As mentioned, Biodiversity conservation principles were integrated into the we have a wide range of spill kits and personnel are trained project design for Sukari from the outset and are applied to for cleanup operations.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 55 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility statement continued Community and society Community development initiatives Centamin recognises that it has a responsibility to support We have supported infrastructure and services in Marsa and enhance the community in which it operates, and Alam for a number of years.
The initiatives include: to minimise its impact on the environment and local Infrastructure: people at every stage of its activities.
We consider good provision of generators of capacity 3.2Mw to upgrade community relations as a key component of continued Marsa Alam power station: operational success as well as a corporate requirement.
continuing to supply electricity to a neighbouring We are committed to acting at all times in a socially Bedouin settlement of 200 people: responsible manner.
supporting the youth centre at Marsa Alam: Stakeholder engagement financing the maintenance activities undertaken in We attach considerable importance to maintaining dialogue Marsa Alam institutes and schools: and with the local community in areas in which we operate.
maintenance of Sukari statues in Marsa Alam.
A public consultation system has been in place at Sukari Social involvement: since the project design phase, and during the construction phase.
With mining in operation we have maintained open sponsoring local events and celebrations including the channels of communication with all our stakeholders for the orphans day, police day and the environment day: and purpose of information disclosure.
donation of equipment and furniture to local authorities in Marsa Alam.
Such as the civil defence authority and In providing opportunities for raising concerns groundwater department.
and grievances we have been pleased to find that throughout 2014, as in previous years, the Sukari mine Social welfare: continues to be welcomed by the local community and financing the surgery for Bedouins in Marsa government authorities.
Alam hospital: financing daily Iftars during Ramadan for unprivileged individuals in Marsa Alam: and distributing food at feasts.
Enhancing education: training of 60 geology and engineering students at Sukari in the summer vacation: and Raw seawater pond at Sukari organising field visits to Sukari for students and officials.
56 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information The process in developing the EIA included a Advanced exploration comprehensive stakeholder consultation for the project Burkina Faso and the relocation requirements associated with the Health and safety project.
In comparison to Sukari, Batie project extends in Following the acquisition of Ampella Mining Limited in villages and occupied areas and thus a relocation for some 2014, essential components of our health and safety farms, houses and public areas will be carried out.
management system have been implemented in Burkina Faso.
These include employee and contractor orientation A comprehensive relocation plan has been prepared while and induction training.
The Batie camp site has a calculating all financial aspects.
This process engaged all wellequipped clinic operated by ISOS and the clinic has concerned stakeholders including farmers, land owners, a fulltime paramedic.
Vehicle safety and travel is also an local chiefs and local committees have been formed important aspect of the system.
With the further optimisation and design of the project, the relocation plan will be As reported in the operational review, subsequent to the refined accordingly.
year end, an unfortunate incident occurred on a public road near the Konkera village which resulted in one of To date, the following projects have been taken forward by our local employees being fatally wounded and another Centamin since the acquisition of Ampella: sustaining injuries.
The wellbeing of our employees is a provision of essential antivenoms to Batie: priority for Centamin and a thorough investigation into this establishment of a water bore in Wadarado village: bandit attack, on two of our vehicles, has been carried out.
Further additional security measures have been proposed repair of a school in Djikando Village: and following the incident and these are being implemented.
sponsorship of local events and school sports activities.
There was no impact on operational activity as a result of Stakeholder engagement remains a key element the incident.
throughout the exploration and advanced exploration Environmental assessment and community projects phase.
This will become increasingly important as the Centamin has contributed to a number of projects Company proves the resource and is able to develop for the local community of Batie in Burkina Faso.
an operating mine in the region.
Centamin, through An environmental impact assessment study EIA the Ampella local subsidiaries, will continue to engage has been carried out in accordance with Burkina Faso with the local community for our projects in Batie in legislation and regulations.
Of particular note in connection with the EIA were the specific issues relating to the human environment and these were identified, as follows: relocation of communities directly impacted: relocation of cashew tree plantations: identification of sacred and religious sites: social acceptability and job creation: economic impact assessment: and community projects.
