24 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Our people External hires full-time equivalents Year ended 31 March very day our people touch the lives of millions, 000 providing services that help customers get the 9 most out of their work and personal lives.
We invest 8 in our people so they can succeed and contribute 7 to our business.
6 5 Believing in what we do 4 A clear purpose guides everyoneos contribution in BT.
By bringing 3 together the best networks, technology and products and services for our customers, we use the power of communications to make a better world.
2 1 During the year we updated our corporate values to reect what really matters to our people.
Teams are increasingly using these values to guide 0 2012 2013 2014 the way they work, creating a culture that encourages everyone to get involved in changing things for the better.
UK Non-UK We continue to build a pipeline of future talent and plan to recruit Team Change We help each We all around 900 graduates and apprentices in 2014 15.
And as part of other achieve make change nMovement to Worko, a UK employer-led initiative backed by the 3rinceos more happen Trust and the Government, we are oering up to 1,500 work placements to 18-24 year-olds.
When a role is no longer needed, our transition centre helps the individual learn new skills and nd alternative roles in the business, Pride Customer Honesty rather than being made redundant.
This year around 2,500 people We are We are proud We are here were retrained and redeployed in this way.
for our{ honest and to make a respectful dierence customers Diversity at work 3roactive policies on inclusion and diversity help us deliver against the needs of a varied customer and supplier base.
More than 6,000 of our A global workforce people belong to internal employee networks that reect the diversity At 31 March 2014, we had 87,800 full-time eTuivalent employees of our workforce women ethnic minorities disability lesbian, gay, in 61 countries s 72,200 of them based in the UK.
We are the bise[ual and transgender Christian Muslim and carers.
As a nTwo Tickso 15th{largest employer in the UK, supporting its economy by providing employer awarded byobcentre 3lus to UK employers who have made jobs and income.
certain commitments, we have well established policies and practices to support the recruitment, development and retention of people with We recruited around 8,100 people in the year.
Applicants with disabilities or long-term health conditions s were in the UK and include around 1,400 engineers 500 of whom and who meet the minimum criteria for the vacancy s are automatically are former armed-forces personnel and over 600 apprentices.
put through to the first stage of the recruitment process.
We created over 500 new roles in the UK which were previously undertaken by agency or oshore resources.
And outside the UK we We are rated in the Top 10 private sector organisations for both insourced a further 2,200 roles.
Meanwhile, we have increased our ethnicity and gender diversication as benchmarked by Business in the workforce by 60% in the high-growth regions that we are investing in, Community.
Our declared disability rate is 5%, with 8% of this yearos with around 500 recruited into our global development centres in India graduate recruits registered as disabled.
We are listed in The Times Top 50 places for Women to Work.
Our Overall, the recruitment of new people was oset by reductions as a gender diversity policy for the BT Board is to aim to have at least 25% result of natural attrition, our restructuring programme and eciencies.
For most of the year we had at least 30% female representation on the Board.
At the year-end this had declined to 22% two female directors out of a Board of nine following the retirement of 3atricia ewitt in March 2014.
We will look to address this in line with our diversity policy.
We describe the composition of the Board in the Governance section on page{86.
Below Board level, 573 20% of our senior e[ecutives are female with 2,353 80% male.
We are focused on appointing more women into operational roles at senior manager level.
Across the company, 18,400 21% of our people are women and 69,400 79% are male in a sector that has traditionally been male-dominated.
The Strategic Report 25 Delivering our strategy Staying safe and well Communication and involvement We have made significant improvements against our key health, safety Our people cited a 22 percentage point improvement in the internal and wellbeing targets.
At the year-end, our annualised lost time injury communications they received over the last three years.
TI rate was 1.93 incidents per million working hours compared with We keep our people informed about company results, major business 2.29 a year earlier.
decisions and other things that aect them using a variety of digital channels.
eaders regularly connect with their teams through roundtable Annualised lost time injury rate meetings, ntown hallo debates, site visits, webcasts and blogs.
Per million work hours We consult our people or their representatives on a regular basis, 2.4 taking their views into account on decisions likely to aect them.
In the UK, we recognise two main trade unions.
The Communication Workers Union represents people in engineering, administrative and clerical 2.2 positions.
Prospect represents managerial and professional people.
We also operate a panuropean works council, the BT uropean Consultative Committee.
2.0 Volunteering Through our international volunteering programme, all of our people can use three working days to support causes they feel passionate about.
1.8 During the year, 16% of our people volunteered over 46,000 days of their time supporting over 1,300 charities and community groups across Mar 13 May 13 Jul 13 Sep 13 Nov 13 Jan 14 Mar 14 the globe.
Not only is this a great source of pride, it helps people develop new skills and greater awareness about the communities we work in.
During the year we received the BRAK Road Safety Charityos Fleet Safety Analysis and Action Award.
This recognises our e[tensive risk In the UK, over 700 BT people took calls to support the 2013 Children assessment, data analysis and interventions strategy for road safety.
We powered Sport Reliefos fundraising eorts by Over a ten-year period our approach has resulted in a halving of collision co-ordinating 87 call centres and 1,000 BT volunteers helped take rates and cost, across a eet of more than 34,000 vehicles.
We have continued to support our people to deal with the ups and More than 200 BT volunteers help run the BT Young Scientist downs of everyday life.
We trained around 950 people managers in the Technology [hibition.
This is a grassroots initiative in Ireland to year to enhance their own personal resilience and support that of their raise schoolso engagement in science, technology, engineering and teams.
Resilience is associated with lower levels of absence, increased mathematics.
It also encourages research and development, innovation productivity, greater engagement and better wellbeing overall.
It celebrated its 50th event in January 2014, increased awareness of managing mental health, managers are better attracting 2,000 entries from more than 4,400 students.
eTuipped to support people facing these issues.
The improvements we have made have been demonstrated in both standardised psychological Employee engagement measures and our own Wellbeing Inde[.
ach Tuarter, around 32,000 people provide feedback about working for BT through our engagement survey.
ou can nd more about wellbeing in our Better Future report ngagement levels have improved from 3.69 in February 2013 to 3.82 at www.
com betterfuture in February 2014 out of a ma[imum of 5.
This is our highest-ever level.
All aspects of the employee e[perience showed improvements, including Learning and development how people feel about their job, their team, their manager, senior leaders We retained accreditation against the Investors in People standard and the company.
Over the year, feedback from our people shows a for the 15th consecutive year.
Conferred by the UK Commission for growing optimism that things are changing for the better in BT, with a mployment Skills, it confirms people management e[cellence around higher level of e[citement about the companyos future.
the key areas of strategic planning, culture and communication, eective management, managing performance and developing people.
Employee engagement index As at 31 March The BT Academy develops professional skills across four faculties leadership, customer, business and technical.
Around 5,000 leaders s 3.9 from senior e[ecutives to junior managers s have learnt new ways to lead, coach and support their teams.
A global programme is giving 3.8 our frontline people the skills, tools and techniTues to improve the way they serve customers.
