48 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Human rights Regulation BTos human rights policy is set out in nThe Way In nearly all our markets, communications services We Worko, our statement of business practices.
are subject to regulation by governmental and It applies to all BT employees, our suppliers and non-governmental bodies.
This is to make sure that anyone working on behalf of BT.
CPs abide by common standards and rules and that nobody is disadvantaged by those CPs with strong To cover the most likely areas where BT could negatively impact on positions in their markets.
In this section we explain human rights, we have clear global policies which cascade from our statement of business practices.
These include Anti-Corruption some of the recent and upcoming decisions taken Bribery our Data and Privacy policies the GS18 Sourcing with by regulators and how they aect us.
Human Dignity standard which applies to all of BTos suppliers our Conict Minerals Policy various security policies and a number of our Human Resources policies covering diversity, inclusion, and health, European Union EU regulation safety and wellbeing.
In EU countries, electronic communications networks and services are governed by a number of European directives and regulations.
We monitor the eectiveness of these policies on a regular basis with the These create a Europe-wide framework covering services including appropriate Board committee oversight.
During the year, the Compliance xed and mobile voice, broadband, cable and satellite TV.
Programme Panel, a committee of senior commercial representatives from across the business, reviewed our compliance framework for human The directives include rules covering access and interconnection, rights and in March 2014 we reported on our progress to the Operating universal service obligations, and a reTuirement for national regulators Committee, Nominating Governance Committee and Audit Risk to review markets for significant market power SMP every three years.
We also conducted an initial impact assessment to clarify They also cover how regulators set price controls.
They reTuire regulators the areas where our operations are most likely to impact human rights.
to consult with the European Commission EC on any price control The main ones relate to workers in our supply chain how we safeguard decisions before they are nalised to make sure they are consistent with data about our customers and employees and the way our products and European regulations.
We will continue with and expand on this work.
In 2014 15 telecoms legislation will be revised to further harmonise We have in place, and have used, escalation processes for issues or rules across member states on access, spectrum and mobile roaming.
We also have our condential hotline, The EC is also expected to review which markets should be covered by for reporting certain types of malpractice or wrongdoing in the work telecoms regulation.
We act upon instances of ethical or compliance misconduct and include some information on this area in our Better Future report.
UK regulation The telecoms industry is regulated primarily by Ofcom the UKos ou can nd our Better Future report at independent regulator, through various European directives, the www.
com betterfuturereport Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act, as well as other regulations and recommendations.
Our aims for 2014 15 include further developing our compliance framework in consideration of human rights, including a Board level The Communications Act review of our overarching human rights policy.
We will continue to work The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out the with our suppliers, customers and partners, along with industry, sector reTuirements for how electronic communications services should be and government bodies to reinforce the message around respect of regulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions imposed by the human rights.
Our Better Future strategy and our involvement in local European directives.
communities drives forward our objective to promote and support In July 2013, the UK Government set out its plans nConnectivity, human rights.
Content and Consumerso to make sure that people and businesses are able to make the most of the digital age.
These include a review of broadcasting and pay-TV regulation and aim to give Ofcom a duty to ensure consumers can easily switch bundles of services between suppliers.
Any agreed changes may need to be incorporated into the Communications Act.
