strategic rePort H ow do you keep retail relevant in an online world?
W Hiteley sHoPPing, HaMPsHire the way people are shopping is clearly changing but physical space remains a core part of the buying experience for consumers.
our understanding of consumers and what they want ensures we continue to create the very best environments where people choose to shop and spend their time and where retailers want to be.
getting the right food and leisure offer is playing an increasingly important role in attracting shoppers and encouraging them to stay longer, helping our occupiers to generate sales and achieve their goals.
our recently opened Whiteley shopping is a great example of how we can bring together insights and best practice from across our business.
it is why we were able to attract leading high street brands such as fat face and Joules who chose to open their first out-of-town stores at Whiteley shopping.
it is why the cinema and all restaurant units in our forthcoming leisure extension are already pre-let or under offer, 12 months before opening.
Whiteley shopping has rapidly become a preferred destination for retailers and shoppers.
it was voted B est Medium sized shopping centre Development in europe by the international council of shopping centres in 2014. the architecture has an extra level of 4.7m quality, which combined with the environmental annualised fOOtfall credentials rang true with our brand, and therefore is what appeals to our customers.
65 minutes average lengtH Of visit tiM MOOdy 1.25m HeaD of ProPerty, fat face PeOPle in catcHMent area 87% Of visitOrs are in tHe a ffluent acHievers deMOgraPHic 1, 355 free Parking sPaces E xcellent breeaM sustainability whiteley shopping rating www.
com shoppingcentres 4 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 Strategic report H ow do you attract leading global companies to your offices?
r egents Place, lonDon companies from around the world are choosing london as a place to do business.
great working environments, particularly those which have good transport links, are increasingly important in attracting and retaining the best people.
as well as good buildings to work in, great environments have places to shop and enjoy leisure time.
People are also choosing to live in the best of these environments.
regents Place is a great example of how we are able to create outstanding work environments for london by understanding our occupiers needs and working closely with the local community.
its high-quality offices, well served by major transport links, are enhanced by restaurants, shops, a health club, a theatre, art studios, a childrens nursery and landscaped open space.
as a result, this 13-acre campus has attracted a broad range of businesses from around the world: from banking to oil and gas, to media and technology, including one of our newest occupiers, facebook.
We have also provided 150 high-end apartments for people to buy along with 160 more affordable homes for people to rent.
We are delighted to be moving 1 5,000 to regents Place and joining a vibrant wOrkers and residents business community.
our new office space will transform the way we work 45 together as a company.
different cOMPanies siMOn rees 98% ceo, Digital cineMa MeDia OccuPancy rate 6.
4% annual increase in value since 2009 E xcellent breeaM sustainability rating regents Place www.
com offices 6 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
