Strategic report RIGHT CUSTOMER CAPITAL EXPERT PLACES ORIENTATION EFFICIENCY PEOPLE wHere we invest We optimise and flex the allocation of our our business integrates our ability to create value requires us both capital across these sectors, including between the entire value-creation chain to identify long-term trends and to ensure investment and development activities.
We that we manage the risk and opportunities regularly review our property portfolio and in property from investment created through economic and property cycles.
recycle capital out of mature assets.
our buying and selling to Property is a cyclical market with returns investment strategy is considered alongside development and property sensitive to changes in supply and demand, the risk parameters agreed by the Board both from occupiers and investors.
We invest in places where we see good or We believe our ability to source and structure the potential for good, lasting demand from deals is a competitive advantage allowing we create HigH-quality, occupiers and investors.
attracting high-quality us to access high-quality investments and adaPtable assets occupiers on longer lease terms generates development opportunities at attractive prices.
Properties and locations with enduring sustainable and growing rental income which We are able to do this because our extensive appeal both to occupiers and investors.
drives increases in the capital value of our network of market contacts, property and properties over time.
the right space tends corporate finance expertise and financial adaptable buildings that can evolve to perform better over the long-term than strength which enables us to take on large, to the needs of our customers.
average or poorer quality property reflecting complex transactions.
the benefits of enduring demand from occupiers and investors.
Our POrtfOliO our portfolio comprises assets with a range Within the UK property market we focus on of lease lengths and different ages including in attractive envirOnMents investing, developing and managing highenvironments with a broad amenity offer.
those which are newly developed and those quality retail and london offices.
this is which are scheduled for major refurbishment Well-connected locations.
because these markets are large and liquid or development.
this allows us to drive and, in our view, have the best long-term returns through asset management initiatives, growth potential for rents and capital values development and recycling of capital from see the markets we operate in on page 16. witH best-in-class service mature assets into those with better growth although we report them separately, they are focus on continuous improvement of our potential.
highly complementary and we run them closely service offering and delivery.
today, an increasing amount of the services supported by latest technologies.
spaces we are creating are mixed-use.
the substantial retail cash flows enable us to flex our investment in the more cyclical london tHat Offer gOOd value fOr MOney office market and invest in significant attractive and affordable locations.
UK PORTFOLIO 1% Retail parks Superstores Shopping centres 23% 2% Department store 23% and High Street Leisure City offices 11% West End offices 17% Provincial Residential 16% 5% 3% UK PORTFOLIO develOPMent 2010 PrOgraMMe develOPMent recently cOMMitted and near-terM PiPeline 2010 london programme 2.7 million sq ft Retail parks Superstores Shopping centres Department store and High Street Leisure City offices West End offices Provincial completed 2013 completed 2013 completed 2013 completed 2014 completed 2012 to complete June 2014 to complete March 2015 199 bishopsgate 1030 brock street 10 Portman square Marble arch House 39 victoria street the leadenhall building 5 broadgate 18 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort driving PerfOrMance tHrOugH in construction costs.
this can be mitigated asset ManageMent through pre-letting and fixed-cost contracts.
We look to drive performance from the portfolio as part of our overall management of risks, we through active management of the spaces maintain a maximum limit of total development we own, both the buildings themselves and the exposure both pre-let and speculative of not environments around them.
Proactive asset more than 15% of our investment portfolio.
management adds significantly to the value of our current committed developments are over an asset over time by increasing rental income.
70% pre-let and 77% of our costs are fixed.
asset management covers a broad range of in recent years, we have been one of only activities including: a few companies with the financial resources new lettings, rent reviews and lease and expertise to exploit a scarcity of highrenewals: quality london office space.
providing high levels of service to occupiers: in 2010, we committed to a 1.5 billion development programme, focused on london, changing planning consents: and which has delivered over 600 million of changing configurations, refurbishment and profit with a further 45 million estimated extensions to meet customer requirements.
it is expected to be a key driver of our rental income growth, adding an estimated We have 31 asset management specialists in 85 million to our contracted rent.
they are responsible for making programme is nearing completion and we strategic decisions on the occupier mix, leasing, see development returns remaining attractive, glasgOw fOrt renewal or extension of leases.
We utilise our we have replenished our development pipeline.
scale and customer relationships to drive value We have recently committed to 1.3 million as one of our largest shopping parks, we through our active asset management.
sq ft of new development projects and have have been investing to improve the experience our asset management specialists work with a further 719,000 sq ft of projects in our nearfor the 12 million people who visit glasgow our local property teams to deliver attractive term pipeline.
of these we expect to commit fort each year.
our investment in an eightand vibrant environments places that are to 4 Kingdom street later this year.
screen Vue cinema and five restaurants, well integrated into the surrounding area, to add to the existing line-up of over 60 retail with the right mix of amenities and pleasant business review for development brands at the park, has delivered outstanding P4450 public spaces.
footfall grew by 8%: dwell time rose to 102 minutes.
We have recently supplementary information for development develOPMent obtained planning permission for a 112,000 P172173 Development forms an important part of our sq ft extension, which includes a 80,000 sq ft business: We have a strong and established store pre-let to M&s.
track record for delivering large-scale development and refurbishment projects.
Development offers the opportunity to create glasgow fort value by delivering the right product at the www.
com right point in the supply and demand cycle.
com retailparks the amount of development we undertake varies depending on our view of the prospective returns.
Development returns are generally considered higher risk than those available from existing income-producing properties and we target returns that are commensurately higher as a result.
the risk principally arises from the length of time the development takes from inception to completion: the risks include letting the building and increases develOPMent 2010 PrOgraMMe develOPMent recently cOMMitted and near-terM PiPeline recently committed 1.3 million sq ft near-term 0.7 million sq ft to complete 2015 to complete 2016 to complete 2016 to complete 2017 expected to commit design stage to start 2015 yalding House the Hempel aldgate Place clarges Mayfair 4 kingdom street 5 kingdom street blossom street Paddington central Paddington central shoreditch The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Strategic report RIGHT CUSTOMER CAPITAL EXPERT PLACES ORIENTATION EFFICIENCY PEOPLE our portfolio is well balanced to the different creating the right space in an environment Our uk retail and ways consumers shop.
We own some of the where people want to shop and retailers leisure POrtfOliO best retail locations in the country, whether can thrive experiential shopping, where you may go for a We continually look to invest in our assets whole day out: convenient destination shopping, whether through great shop fit-outs or major where you regularly shop for a couple of hours: refurbishments and extensions to provide uks largest listed landlOrd or functional shopping, which meets everyday retailers with high-quality, flexible, modern assets under ManageMent or basic needs, such as a food shop.
our scale and strong relationships gives us 10.4bn retail develOPMent competitive advantage, ensuring that we We have a 372,000 sq ft retail development have an unparalleled landlords view of our fOcused On HigH-quality PrOPerties programme which is primarily focused occupiers and consumers behaviour.
the in well-lOcated retail lOcatiOns on upgrading and extending our existing adaptability of our portfolio is key: the majority assets and increasing our food and leisure of our assets benefit from flexible planning offer, to improve the overall environment, 24.6m sq ft consents and are easily adapted allowing us which will deliver good near-term returns.
to respond to changing requirements and HigH-quality OccuPiers deliver the most attractive space to retailers generating HigH-quality casH PerfOrMance Overview and consumers.
flOws cOntracted rent our retail portfolio has consistently our asset management activities are focused outperformed iPD all retail over the last one, on: leveraging existing retailer relationships: three and five years with each major sub sector 397m improving the retail mix and targeting a broader outperforming its benchmark over the same OccuPancy rate range of retailers: increasing the food and period.
this underlines the quality and beverage offer: unit configuration and flexibility resilience of our portfolio and our ability to including mezzanines: and improving the retail evolve our retail offer in a rapidly changing 98.5% environment including upgrading and extending marketplace.
PORTFOLIO BALANCED TO THE WAY britisH land retail tOtal PEOPLE SHOP retail strategy PrOPerty return versus iPd our aim is to be the preferred destination 1 year 3 years 5 years Experience for retailers and consumers by owning and Convenience British land retail 10.7% 7.1% 11.5% Functional creating retail assets that reflect how the iPD 10.1% 5.7% 9.6% consumer shops and meets the needs Performance 60 bps 140 bps 190 bps of retailers.
in a fast-changing retail 40% 39% versus iPD environment we focus on: all retail detailed understanding of the consumer 21% We undertake extensive research including retail and leisure review for 2013 14 over 50,000 exit surveys conducted over the P4748 last 12 months, to provide us with detailed actively resHaPing Our POrtfOliO knowledge on how people shop at each More detail on our properties tO best POsitiOn fOr grOwtH witH www.
com our-properties of our key assets.
2.3bn Providing the right services to attract both the retailer and consumer of gross investment activity services cover a broad range including digital, over the past four years.
click and collect, marketing and community engagement and are becoming an increasingly important part of British lands retail offer.
k ey retail assets Meadowhall shopping centre tesco and sainsburys food superstores teesside shopping Park drake circus shopping centre, Plymouth 20 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort our office and residential businesses focused best-in-class services Our lOndOn Office and on london, reflect the capitals position as a We focus on world-class property residential POrtfOliO leading global city, one of the worlds largest management, covering everything from centres for financial and business services, day-to-day services to the development and increasingly where people are choosing of new buildings.
POrtfOliO fOcused On transPOrt Office and residential develOPMent We own, manage and develop modern, highand infrastructure Hubs and in 2010 we took the decision to commit to a quality and well-located office accommodation, uP-and-cOMing areas significant london development programme supported by outstanding customer service, totalling 2.3 million sq ft of office and residential which meets the needs of a broad range of 7.3m sq ft space.
one million sq ft of this has now organisations.
our portfolio comprises an completed with the remainder to complete attractive mix of high-quality buildings in we create attractive envirOnMents over the next 12 months.
We remain positive well-managed environments and a significant and Places on the outlook for development returns over the pipeline of development projects.
increasingly, coming year, we have successfully replenished our office properties and campuses include our pipeline and we have committed to a 3 campuses retail and residential elements.
number of new projects, totalling a further HigH-quality standing investMents residential plays an important role in our office 485,000 sq ft, including clarges, the Hempel cOntracted rent developments in the West end and is also a and aldgate Place.
profitable business in its own right.
We focus on high-end properties in london and our More information on our developments 211m www.
com development approach is to recycle capital quickly, as we OccuPancy rate develop and look to sell the majority of the units before schemes complete.
PerfOrMance Overview 92.1% our london office portfolio has delivered in offices, our asset management activities strong total returns of 14.9% per annum are focusing on: leveraging our strong occupier weigHted average lease over the last five years and consistently relationships: attracting new occupiers: lengtH tO first break outperformed iPD all offices, reflecting our actively managing our lease expiries: and focus on london and the quality of our improving the working environment.
Office POrtfOliO develOPed Office strategy britisH land Office tOtal in last five years our aim is to create offices in london which PrOPerty return versus iPd have enduring appeal to occupiers, by virtue of their location, design, overall costs to 1 year 3 years 5 years Around 40% occupy, environment and the way in which British land office 19.3% 13.6% 14.9% strOng PiPeline Of cOMMitted we manage and maintain them.
in order iPD 18.5% 10.2% 11.5% develOPMent to achieve this we focus on: Performance 80 bps 340 bps 340 bps versus iPD understanding our occupiers needs all offices 1.2bn our understanding of occupier needs is the key to the quality and sustainability of our buildings, ensuring that they are Office and residential review for 2013 14 P4950 both well-let and stand the test of time.
More detail on our properties ensure our estates appeal to a broad www.
com our-properties range of occupiers We support our occupiers to attract and retain talent by offering places with strong transport links, excellent public spaces and an attractive working environment enhanced by restaurants, shops and leisure facilities.
k ey lOndOn Office assets broadgate, ec3 regents Place, nw1 Paddington central, w2 10 Portman square, w1 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Strategic report RIGHT CUSTOMER CAPITAL EXPERT PLACES ORIENTATION EFFICIENCY PEOPLE envirOnMental excellence Performance leadership index 2013 and our requirements under the crc energy efficient, modern buildings are more cost have been recognised in the Disclosure efficiency scheme, and emission factors effective to run and less at risk from emerging leadership index for the third year running.
from the UK governments gHg conversion issues, such as new climate change legislation, factors for company reporting 2013. the UK government aims to reduce emissions rising energy costs, changing occupier demands by 80% by 2050 and is introducing legislation for full details of the methodology used to and potential reputational damage.
sustainable to drive reductions in the built environment calculate these emissions and for Pwcs buildings are also better protected and future which is responsible for around half the UKs independent assurance, please see our proofed against physical risks caused by carbon emissions.
We aim to reduce our corporate responsibility full Data report increased flooding and rising temperatures.
like-for-like emissions scope 1 and 2 by 2014 www.
there are growing indications to support our 40% by 2015 compared to 2009. to date we view that sustainability, particularly energy have achieved a 36% reduction.
in support scope 3 emissions efficiency, help protect and grow capital value P174 of this reduction, we have a number of other over the medium to long-term.
targets including improvements in waste www.
com responsibility occupiers and people who work, shop and management and water efficiency.
live in our buildings increasingly prefer We have reported on all emission sources energy efficient, low-carbon buildings.
our required under the companies act 2006 stakeholders expect us to lead on energy strategic report and Directors reports efficiency to reduce costs and future proof regulations 2013. these sources fall within our our buildings.
consolidated financial statement and relate to reducing our carbon footprint is an important head office activities and controlled emissions part of our effort to manage buildings efficiently from our managed portfolio.
We do not have and develop sustainable buildings.
We actively responsibility for any emissions that are manage greenhouse gas emissions across not included in our consolidated statement.
We have participated in the We have used the gHg Protocol corporate carbon Disclosure Project for eight years.
accounting and reporting standard We are joint top of the ftse 350 carbon revised edition, data gathered to fulfil envirOnMental awards include absOlute scOPe 1 and 2 eMissiOns tonnes co e 2 year ended 31 March 2014 2013 2009 combustion of fuel Managed portfolio gas use and fuel use in British land owned vehicles 5,406 5,722 5,015 Operation of facilities ciBse client energy Management award Managed portfolio refrigerant loss from air conditioning 1,677 1,076 653 and Building Performance award 2014.
Purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for our own use Managed portfolio electricity use 36,264 37,295 42,339 1 scOPe 1 and 2 eMissiOns intensity tonnes co e 2 World green Business council Business leadership in sustainability award 2013. year ended 31 March 2014 2013 2009 2 Per m offices 0.048 0.045 0.079 2 Per m shopping centres 0.021 0.024 0.039 2 Per m retail parks 0.004 0.004 0.007 nare it global recognition leader in the light award 2013.
Per m gross rental and related income 59.41 61.99 1 Heating and cooling degree day adjusted to normalise for weather.
Property Week sustainability achievement award 2013.
22 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort cOMMunity suPPOrt as well as listening to the requirements of our occupiers, we work with local communities to understand their needs and help address local issues, for instance by supporting local employment, training and apprenticeships.
We know that local people prefer places created with their collaboration the right mix of retail, restaurants and leisure, new jobs, muchneeded community facilities, better public spaces, safer walking routes and amenities such as accessible toilets and baby changing facilities.
Places which are integrated well into the surrounding area become part of the local community.
it adds richness, life, a sense of community and diversity to our places, which makes them more attractive for occupiers.
We are making good progress on our community charter which we launched in 2011. this sets out ten commitments to the people who live near our major properties and developments.
these commitments cover our approach to community engagement, and to local issues such as training, employment and education.
our strong reputation for community support makes us more likely to become the partner of choice for local authorities and others.
it means our planning proposals are more likely to be in tune with what local communities want, helping us achieve better quality planning permissions, more quickly.
com responsibility since 2007, we have invested over 50 million Bruce ewen is one of 98 apprentices who of cash and in-kind contributions to local learnt while they earned at our assets last infrastructure and initiatives through our year, supported or part-funded by us and our community programme.
as a key member suppliers as part of our focus on employment cOMMunity awards include in the West euston Partnership we were able and training.
over 100 local jobseekers have to better understand the issues the local also gained sustainable employment with community faced and work to address them.
our suppliers at Broadgate in the city, the statistics available for the period from through our skills into Work programme 2004 to 2010 show that the area around with community partner the east london regents Place has benefited from a Business alliance.
substantial reduction in levels of deprivation in the top 1% of all london areas.
Business in the community awards 2014 reaccreditations 2013 in glasgow, Hull improvements in the local community have and london.
gone hand-in-hand with commercial growth, with property values increasing twice as much as the rest of the West end office market since 2009. our experience at regents Place has shaped our vision of what good community engagement across our entire portfolio can and will look like.
Business in the community awards 2013 in glasgow, Hull, rotherham and london.
com offices The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Strategic report RIGHT CUSTOMER CAPITAL EXPERT PLACES ORIENTATION EFFICIENCY PEOPLE attracting new retail close relationships with our occupiers, along with a deep OccuPiers Out-Of-tOwn understanding of the people who use the spaces, forms the basis our stronger understanding of the consumer of all our activities.
this underpins our ability to generate highis allowing us to target a broader range of quality, secure cash flows.
it helped us attract nike to take space at chester and rotherham and fat face and Phase eight to take their first out-of-town our approach is firmly grounded in strong in administration have fallen from 0.9% to stores at Whiteley shopping.
our scale in 0.1% of our total rent reflecting the quality of retail and office markets gives us broad reach our portfolio.
our occupancy, which is high across our markets.
We undertake extensive at 96.1%, also includes some vacant space at shopper research programmes across recently completed london offices.
We have around 80% of our multi-tenanted assets good levels of interest in this space and are in the last 12 months we have interviewed confident about letting prospects.
HigH-quality OccuPiers tOP 10 We also work hard to ensure our relationships % Rent with our occupiers are strong.
in retail, we have had over 500 meetings over the last 12 tesco 7.7 months.
every two years, we commission sainsburys 6.0 www.
com retail extensive independent customer satisfaction surveys across our business to help us better Debenhams 5.8 understand our occupiers needs and identify UBs 3.2 opportunities for further improvements.
retaining Office OccuPiers Home retail group 2.7 On Our HigH-quality caMPuses our fifth biennial customer survey in 2013 confirmed that we continue to significantly Kingfisher B&Q 2.7 our occupiers choose to stay and grow outperform industry averages for occupier with us.
across our office portfolio, existing satisfaction.
HM government 2.5 occupiers such as Herbert smith, f&c, tullet Prebon, close asset Management next plc 2.4 www.
com occupiers and Premier oil have signed close to Virgin active 2.0 1.7 million sq ft of lease extensions with us over the last three years.
We attract some of the highest-quality arcadia group 2.0 occupiers to our properties.
the quality of our properties and our customer focus means DIVERSE OCCUPIER BASE that our occupiers want to stay with us.
they commit to long leases and then extend them: 2.4% they also sign up for more space and grow General retail with us.
Fashion beauty 7.2% 20.4% Supermarket the quality and diversity of our occupiers, 8.4% 0.8% Banks financial services high occupancy levels, strong rents and long Professional leases give us significant security of income 12.7% and corporate which enhance the value of our properties.
18.7% Food leisure broadgate DIY no single occupier accounts for more than www.
co. uk 13.9% Government 8% of our total revenues.
our average 15.5% Other business www.
com offices lease length at 10.3 years is longer than the industry average of 10 years.
financially strOng OccuPiers lOng leases and HigH OccuPancy in addition to benefiting from a high-quality and Weighted average underlying Like-fordiversified portfolio of occupiers, we take a 1 2 lease length occupancy like change rigorous approach to managing and monitoring retail 11.3 years 98.5% 100 bps their financial positions.
We review the financial covenants of all new occupiers with rent over offices 8.4 years 92.1% 190 bps a certain threshold before agreeing any lettings total 10.3 years 96.1% 130 bps and paying incentives.
We also assess the financial covenant strength of all our major 1 to first break.
occupiers on a periodic basis and we monitor 2 occupancy movement on the same group of properties over the past 12 months by excluding sales, purchases those we consider may be experiencing and newly completed developments.
over the last year, occupiers 24 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort PrOPerty ManageMent PrOviding tHe rigHt services in retail in offices, day-to-day facilities management Provision of click and collect services is is undertaken by Broadgate estates, a whollyincreasingly important.
consumers ability owned subsidiary, whose team also provides to get in and out of a retail destination really facilities management and other services matters and the free car parking in a large to third-party clients.
the fact that Broadgate proportion of our schemes is a real benefit.
estates also acts for other occupiers and at Meadowhall shopping centre in sheffield, investors helps them to deliver best-in-class click and collect and pioneering technologies occupier services to the British land such as virtual gift cards are attracting office portfolio.
in retail, we outsource the day-to-day operational management of most of our retail properties, including maintenance and cleaning, to external agents.
outsourcing dayto-day management to expert agents, who Meadowhall www.
com shoppingcentres manage on a large scale, helps us to minimise www.
co. uk operational costs for us and our occupiers, gives us significant operational flexibility and further broadens our insights into occupier Meeting Our Office OccuPiers needs and consumer trends.
We work closely with if i was asked who was the best landlord our managing agents and proactively monitor that we deal with, every time it would be their performance against our customerBritish land.
nick benbOw Of regus safe and HealtHy envirOnMents occUPier at tHe BroaDgate toWer British land is committed to providing safe anD 338 eUston roaD, regents Place and healthy environments for all users of the buildings and places we manage.
We aim to be a leader in our industry and to apply best practice in meeting applicable health and safety requirements.
We perform regular risk assessments across the portfolio and set ourselves ambitious targets for resolving identified risks to achieve continuous improvement.
Performance against these targets and accident reporting are monitored by our Health and safety committee which, in turn, reports performance to the risk committee.
PrOPerty awards include Whiteley shopping in Hampshire won the icsc new Development award 2014 Medium sized category.
com offices st stephens shopping centre in Hull won the retail Week retail Destination of the year 2013.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Strategic report RIGHT CUSTOMER CAPITAL EXPERT PLACES ORIENTATION EFFICIENCY PEOPLE debt finance capital efficiency means We focus on having sufficient competitively achieving the right risk return priced and flexible borrowings available to deliver our property strategy.
balance of equity and the scale of our business, combined with borrowings to support the asset the quality, security and stability of our rental side of our balance sheet and income, means that we are attractive to enhance shareholder returns.
a broad range of debt providers and able to arrange finance on attractive terms.
good access to the capital and debt markets is a strategic PartnersHiPs competitive advantage, both reducing our cost the equity to finance the 18 billion property of funding and allowing us to take opportunities portfolio we manage comes from our when they arise.
shareholders and our co-investors in joint ventures and funds.
the strategic alliances Debt financing involves risk from adverse we develop with our partners enable us to changes in the property and financing markets.
leverage our equity, achieve benefits of scale in arranging and monitoring our financing we and spread risk.
include important risk disciplines, ensuring that relevant risks are fully evaluated and Our Main Partners managed.
We choose the appropriate gearing Partner Property level and follow five guiding principles which govern the way we structure and manage gic Broadgate our debt.
these principles are outlined on norges bank Meadowhall shopping centre the opposite page and explained on page 57. tesco 34 superstores gearing 3 shopping centres 3 retail parks in deciding our gearing level we weigh up the potential increased returns obtainable sainsburys 3 3 superstores from greater leverage through borrowing to buy property against the risks of having more Oxford Properties the leadenhall Building debt.
We use a loan to value ratio debt as a uss Whiteley shopping percentage of the value of our assets, ltV eden Walk shopping centre to measure our gearing and settle on an ltV range which reflects the strength of our aviva southgate shopping centre operational business and reliability of cash flows, where we are comfortable that overall the use of partnerships is an integral part of returns will be enhanced without exposing our business and a key way in which we extend tHe leadenHall building the group to undue risk.
they also enable us to access at 736 ft high, and with over 610,000 sq ft attractive investment opportunities alongside strengtH Of balance sHeet Metrics of lettable floor space over 46 floors, the like-minded partners with complementary leadenhall Building is the tallest office tower skills.
around half of our owned assets by value 31 March 31 march Proportionately consolidated 2014 2013 in the city of london.
its development is an are in joint ventures or funds including our two excellent example of British lands ability loan to value ltV 40% 40% largest single assets, the city office campus to form strategic partnerships with leading at Broadgate and Meadowhall shopping average interest rate 4.1% 4.6% institutional investors.
our recent city development projects, with oxford Properties, the real estate arm interest cover 2.5x 2.3x i. e. those in our 2010 development programme, of oMers ontario Municipal employees have been developed within joint ventures.
retirement system, we have respective scale group our partnerships are based on developing to undertake this significant development deep and long-term relationships.
in the loan to value ltV 29% 24% opportunity while sharing the associated majority of cases, we provide asset risks.
the strength of the design and average interest rate 3.5% 4.4% management, development, corporate and desirable location has meant that the building financial services and we earn performance is already 53% pre-let at terms overall interest cover 3.2x 2.8x and management fees.
this enhances our accretive to value.
overall returns, strengthens our relationships with key customers and suppliers and keeps us close to our markets.
com offices financial policies and principles P5658 26 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort our preferred ltV range is between 40% and our unsecured revolving credit facilities Our five financing PrinciPles 50% on a proportionally consolidated basis, i. e. provide flexibility to support the operations including our share of joint ventures and funds.
of our business, with the ability to draw at 31 March 2014, this ratio was 40%.
from and repay at short notice without additional DIVERSIFY OUR SOURCES OF FINANCE time to time we may fall below this as a result cost.
Undrawn committed facilities are of phasing of recycling activity or valuation maintained for immediate available liquidity.
Unsecured increases: we would not increase gearing 0.6bn bank debt Maturities of different facilities are well 0.9bn as a result of market improvements in Debentures spread, from debentures with terms up US Private investment yields.
to 2035, Us Private Placements at circa Placements 1.0bn Convertible We leverage our scale through joint ventures 12 years and a range of bank facilities with bonds and funds which are financed with debt, in terms usually of five years.
this spread 1.6bn Securitisations securitisations and loans, which are nonreduces our refinancing risk in respect Joint ventures 0.7bn 1 recourse to British land.
in doing so, the ltV of timing and market conditions.
and funds 0.4bn at 40% on a proportionally consolidated basis We aim to have no requirement to is higher than the group measure for our refinance in British land with a two year unsecured lenders, which is around 30%.
horizon and continue to review the accordingly we can operate with a higher level debt markets to arrange new finance Maintain liquidity of gearing on a proportionally consolidated as opportunities arise.
basis without putting pressure on the British land credit profile.
the same two financial covenants set 2.0bn 2 out on page 56 apply to all British land Undrawn committed facilities.
our consistent We monitor the markets and seek to access approach has helped us build the long-term extend and stretcH Maturity different types of finance when the relevant relationships with debt providers which Of debt POrtfOliO market conditions are favourable to meet we encourage and value.
the needs of our business, including our joint ventures and funds.
We aim to avoid reliance 8.7 years on any particular source of funds and borrow average debt maturity.
both on unsecured and secured bases from a large number of lenders from different market sectors and geographical areas.
Maintain flexibility 1 BRITISH LAND DEBT MATURITY PROFILE AS AT 31 MARCH 2.6bn M of revolving credit facilities to draw 2 and repay at no additional cost.
1,000 Undrawn facilities Drawn facilities Convertible bonds 800 Maintain strOng US Private balance sHeet Metrics Placements 600 Debentures 400 40% ltV proportionally consolidated.
1 British Land facilities proforma for the new 785 million revolving credit facility.
1 HUts debt shown at our share 0.3 billion within joint ventures and funds.
2 British land facilities pro forma for the new 785 million revolving credit facility.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Strategic report RIGHT CUSTOMER CAPITAL EXPERT PLACES ORIENTATION EFFICIENCY PEOPLE our team of 242 people is small for a ftse 100 company.
We believe that this is the best of both worlds.
our approach is to recruit small teams of experts in their fields who buy in additional, external resources as they need them.
our lean team makes our business We believe that staff engagement is a entrepreneurial, fast and flexible.
We have a full formal people, this also means that each individual and informal staff programme to increase has the chance to get involved, to work engagement.
one of the benefits of the relatively small size of our head office team alongside industry leaders, and to have a real impact in our business and beyond.
is that we are able to get all our employees together in one room.
We make the most of this as part of British lands first community Week, our skills, give us considerable competitive opportunity, holding all-staff conferences each 180 volunteers worked together on community advantage in a fast paced, changing projects close to some of our key assets.
one team year and all-staff meetings every month, where environment.
our outsourced model and of volunteers hosted a day of entertainment at age people from different areas of our business scale also mean that we have the lowest UKs centre in camden.
are able to update our whole team on relevant operating costs of the major UK reits.
developments and respond to questions.
our We also offer a wide range of volunteering people are good to deal with: they are talented opportunities, many of which are designed and professional, have integrity and work well to encourage team-building and develop staff with others.
our people and values are part competencies and skills that will be useful of what make us different and drive a high in the workplace, at the same time as helping performance culture.
they make us a good to address community issues.
We also have organisation to do business with, so we are a broad range of social activities which many often a partner of choice for customers, staff participate in.
suppliers, joint ventures and regeneration projects.
they are also at the heart of our in 2013, we participated in our third annual staff satisfaction survey through the sunday employer brand the smallest big company youll ever work for, which helps us attract times Best companies to Work for survey.
We achieved a one star rating, for the third and grow the best talent.
92% of our staff said volunteering activities year running.
were effective for team building.
Here, two of our Board consists of expert individuals with our volunteers are working on the garden area at experience from a number of relevant sectors, wellbeing richard House childrens Hospice in newham.
as detailed in their biographies on pages 66 We are committed to the wellbeing of our staff, and 67. the Board draws on its diverse range recognising our obligations as an employer Our values of skills and breadth of knowledge when and the benefits this brings to our business.
developing British lands strategy and We provide a safe working environment, integrity provides strong leadership as that strategy access to healthcare services and an employee We do what is right, not what is easy.
assistance scheme which includes a counselling service.
We promote and support over the last year our Hr strategy has focused One teaM on two key areas: active lifestyles through subsidised gym We work collaboratively with both membership, provision of cycling facilities, nurturing talent so we get more out of our internal and external stakeholders.
membership of the governments cycle to people and so they grow and develop: and Work scheme and regular sporting activities optimising our organisation so we are arranged through our social programme.
excellence as dynamic as possible and have the We are the best we can be and capabilities we need for the future.
cOMMercial acuMen We take the lead in our field.
28 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort report of the nomination committee HuMan rigHts and fairness We currently have two female Directors on P7981 Diversity Policy in tHe wOrkPlace the Board, Dido Harding, a non-executive P81 Developing people at British land We treat our staff and suppliers with fairness, Director and lucinda Bell, finance Director.
We support the protection this currently represents 18% female Board governance review of internationally recognised human rights membership.
as at 31 March 2014, of the 34 P6667 Board of Directors and have been a signatory to the United nations senior management at British land and our P73 employees global compact, which promotes absolute subsidiaries, 21% were female.
of the 526 respect for human rights, since 2009.
British employees at British land and our subsidiaries, land supports the United nations guiding 48% were female.
We report diversity in line Principles on Business and Human rights, with the UKs new narrative reporting also known as the ruggie framework.
senior management therefore We are developing a supply chain charter includes employees of British land and our to ensure that these principles are subsidiaries who have responsibility for implemented throughout our supply chain.
planning, directing or controlling the activities of the company or a strategically significant British land treats all job applicants and part of the company.
employees equally and conducts business in an honest way.
Measures to deliver GENDER DIVERSITY AT BRITISH LAND AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES on these commitments include our equal opportunities Policy, anti-Bribery and corruption Policy, competition Policy Board of DirectorsSenior Management All employees and fraud awareness Policy.
100 100 100 We have been a signatory to the UK 80 80 80 governments Prompt Payment code since it launched in 2010.
We paid 97% of invoices 60 60 60 by value within 30 days this year, excluding 40 40 40 disputed invoices.
20 20 20 diversity 0 0 0 our recruitment practices have long included Male a commitment to diversity and gender equality.
Female the Boards Diversity Policy is detailed in the report of the nomination committee on pages 79 to 81. the policy throughout British land is to employ the best candidates available in every position, regardless of sex, race ethnic origin, nationality, colour, age, religion or philosophical belief, sexual orientation, marriage or civil partnership, and pregnancy, maternity, gender reassignment or disability.
awards include We won a national Payroll giving excellence award 2013, with 23% of staff signed up to our new scheme, an impressive rise from 2% in 2011.
PaddingtOn central the strengths of our people in deal making delivered results in our 470 million acquisition of Paddington central in July 2013, an off-market transaction with a complex ownership structure.
on a net initial yield once fully let of 6.2% on the existing properties and development sites at a price of 175 per sq ft, we believe this is a very attractive entry price into a well-located, major West end office.
We rank in the top five ftse 100 companies for reporting wellness and engagement of employees, in the Business in the Paddington central www.
com offices community Workwell Benchmark 2014. www.
com The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 82% 18% 79% 21% 52% 48%
