e c n a n r Strategic report Corporate responsibility approach Our approach Once again in 2014 we were accredited At Intu we believe that with the BitC CommunityMark, one of only Our corporate responsibility approach is corporate responsibility must 52 UK companies to receive the award.
based on three pillars of communities and be driven by the strategic aims The CommunityMark is a national standard economic contribution, environmental that publicly recognises leadership and of the Company and be subject efficiency and relationships with excellence in the community.
to the same quality of In our joint community projects we work governance controls as other In 2014 we reached the target of reducing with local partners to help disadvantaged our carbon emissions by 30 per cent areas of the business.
We want young people into work.
During 2014, we compared with 2011 like-for-like portfolio Intu to be a long-term and worked with nine community partners adjusted for occupancy.
We also diverted delivering 21 projects at our centres.
sustainable business and we over 97 per cent of waste away from These projects have directly reached over landfill, recycled 69 per cent of waste and can only ensure that if we care 1,200 people.
reduced water use by 2 per cent compared for the communities where our with 2011.
We continue to be included in FTSE4Good shopping centres are located and the Dow Jones Sustainability Global Our outstanding and sustained and look after the environment Index and we were awarded the Green Star performance in energy efficiency was that we all share by GRESB.
We have also received a gold recognised by the Carbon Trust, which ranking in the Mayor of Londons Business awarded us the Best in continuing Energy Challenge for our two centres in carbon reduction award at the Standard Greater London and our head office.
The award recognises the challenging 30 per cent reduction target p48 we set ourselves and the work we have for more information done to achieve this since 2011.
1 Creating compelling experiences Communities Environmenta l and economic efficiency contribution 4 2 Generating Establishing Our value for enduring customers shareholders relationships with retailers 3 Delivering long-term growth Relationships 10 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk e v o g R C Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report Communities Environmental Relationships and economic efficiency contribution Our shopping centres are integral to We have a responsibility not just to We need to understand the needs the communities they serve.
They build manage and minimise our day-to-day and expectations of a wide range of social togetherness by providing places environmental impacts but also to stakeholders in order to provide a for people to come together to meet, share good practices and influence our business that offers a great shopping eat, drink and socialise.
We also make delivery partners, retailers and visitors experience with informed investors, an important contribution to the towards more sustainable behaviour.
passionate employees and welleconomic life within and beyond these Ultimately, we want to create a more supported communities.
Akeypartof communities, providing jobs for local sustainable operating environment.
Our centres support charities  We focus our efforts on the common and community organisations that  areas of our shopping centres, where address fundamental issues in modern onrelevant issues.
we have the biggest ability to drive society which are important to the change.
Bringing facilities management The main groups of stakeholders we long-term success of our business, under our control has further increased engage with are: including youth, education and the our oversight of the environmental prevention of anti-social behaviour.
Communities efficiencies we can achieve.
We target reductions in energy usage, increase Customers in recycling levels, and decrease in Investors water consumption.
Local and national government Our people Retailers Suppliers p49 p50 p52 for more information for more information for more information Achieving Retail Gold Zero Waste Award A winning partnership Since 2005, intu has supported the intu Chapelfield is the first shopping This years Chairmans CR Prize went to Retail Gold initiative to prepare young centre ever to win a Gold Zero Waste the team at intu Lakeside who worked people for a career in retail, placing over Award for its commitment to reducing with the National Literacy Trust to support 300 students with retailers.
This year waste to landfill.
All staff and retailers are local young people with literacy difficulties we launched a tailored intu World Class trained in recycling, sorting waste and and their families.
Partnership working Service module for students preparing for reducing contamination and understand is required for the prize: helping young their retail placement.
With intu Braehead why the centre takes waste management people facing educational, medical, social we are also providing employability so seriously.
By the end of 2014 intu and employment difficulties is part of our support to people attending classes Chapelfield and nine other intu centres CR approach.
sent zero waste to landfill.
11 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
