Risks and Uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Property risk Our management has significant experience in the property industry Self storage market risk generated over many years and in particular in acquiring property on The UK economy is projected to grow at approximately 3% in 2014, main roads in high profile locations and obtaining planning consents.
and is expected to return to the level of output last achieved in 2007 We do take planning risk where necessary.
The planning process before the global financial crisis.
Self storage has proved relatively remains difficult with some planning consents taking in excess of resilient through the crisis, with our revenues and earnings increasing twelve months to achieve, although given we have planning consent over the last four years.
As the economy has recovered in the past on all bar one site, the risk to the Group has reduced significantly year, the market risk has fallen in line with increasing occupancy.
Self storage is a relatively immature market in the UK compared to We manage the construction of our properties very tightly.
The other self storage markets such as the United States and Australia, building of each site is handled through a design and build contract, and we believe has further opportunity for growth.
Awareness of self with the fit out project managed in-house using an established storage and how it can be used by domestic and business customers professional team of external advisers and sub-contractors who have is relatively low throughout the UK, although higher in London.
The worked with us for many years to our Big Yellow specification.
rate of growth of branded self storage on main roads in good locations has historically been limited by the difficulty of acquiring Treasury risk sites at affordable prices and obtaining planning consent.
The lack of Our financing policy is to fund our current needs through a mix of availability of credit within the economy has further reduced this rate debt, equity and cash flow to allow us to selectively build out the of growth since the start of the downturn, and over the last three or remaining development pipeline and achieve our strategic growth so years new store openings within the sector have slowed to an objectives, which we believe improve returns for shareholders.
We average of nine stores per year over the past four years, down from have made it clear that we believe optimal leverage for a business a peak of 34 per year in 2005-2009. such as ours should be in the range 20% to 30% and this informs Our performance during the downturn has been relatively resilient, our management of treasury risk.
We believe that the resilience of our We aim to ensure that there are sufficient medium term facilities in performance is due to a combination of factors including: place to finance our committed development programme, secured a prime portfolio of freehold self storage properties: against the freehold portfolio, with debt serviced by our strong a focus on London and the South East and other large operational cash flows.
metropolitan cities, which has proved more resilient during the We have a fixed rate loan in place from Aviva Commercial Finance downturn and where the drivers in the self storage market are Limited, with 13 years remaining.
For our bank debt, we borrow at at their strongest and the barriers to competition are at their floating rates of interest and use swaps to hedge our interest rate highest: exposure.
Our policy is to have at least 60% of our total borrowings the strength of operational and sales management: fixed, with the balance floating paying margin over LIBOR.
At continuing innovation to deliver the highest levels of customer 31 March 2014 we had fixed rate swaps in place over 53% of our service: outstanding bank borrowings, coupled with the loan from Aviva, the UKs leading self storage brand, with high public awareness resulting in 73% of the Groups total borrowings being fixed.
and online strength: and strong cash flow generation and high operating margins, from The Group does not hedge account its interest rate derivatives, a secure capital structure.
all movements in fair value are taken through the statement of We have a large current storage customer base of over 42,000 comprehensive income.
The Group regularly monitors its spread across the portfolio of stores and many thousands more who counterparty risk.
The Group monitors compliance with its banking have used Big Yellow over the years.
In any month, customers move covenants closely.
During the year it complied with all its covenants, in and out at the margin resulting in changes in occupancy.
Despite and is forecast to do so for the foreseeable future.
the current economic environment, this has remained a seasonal Interest cover and balance sheet risk business and typically we see growth over the spring and the The Group reviews its current and forecast projections of cash flow, summer months, with the seasonally weaker periods being the borrowing and interest cover as part of its monthly management winter months.
In addition, an analysis of the impact of significant The performance in terms of occupancy, revenue and EBITDA of our transactions is carried out regularly, as well as a sensitivity analysis stores can be seen from the Portfolio Summary on page 20. assuming movements in interest rates and occupancy in the stores on gearing and interest cover.
33 Strategic Report continued Risks and Uncertainties continued Credit risk Reputational risk Our customers are required to pay a deposit when they start to rent Big Yellows reputation with all its stakeholders is something we a self storage room and are also required to pay in advance for their value highly and will always look to protect and enhance.
We aim to four-weekly storage charges.
The Group is therefore not exposed to communicate clearly with our customers, suppliers, local authorities a significant credit risk.
79% of our current customers pay by direct and communities, employees and shareholders and to listen to debit: however of new customers moving into the business in the last and take account of their views.
Big Yellows intranet and website year 85% have paid by direct debit.
Businesses often prefer to pay by are important avenues of communication for both employees cheque or BACS.
Since the start of the downturn in economic activity, and shareholders.
we have not seen an increase in the levels of bad debts and arrears.
Security risk In the year to 31 March 2014 our bad debt expense represented The safety and security of our customers, their belongings, and 0.10% of revenue in the year 2013: 0.17%.
To achieve this we invest in state of Taxation risk the art access control systems, individual room alarms, digital CCTV The Group is exposed to changes in the tax regime affecting the cost systems, intruder and fire alarm systems and the remote monitoring of corporation tax, VAT and Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT, for example of all our stores outside of our trading hours.
We are the only major the change in the prior year of the imposition of VAT on self storage operator in the UK self storage industry that has every room in every from 1 October 2012.
We regularly monitor proposed and actual store individually alarmed.
changes in legislation with the help of our professional advisers, We have implemented customer security procedures in line with through direct liaison with HMRC, and through trade bodies to advice from the Police and continue to work with the regulatory understand and, if possible, mitigate or benefit from their impact.
authorities on issues of security, reviewing our operational procedures regularly.
The importance of security and the need for Real Estate Investment Trust REIT risk vigilance is communicated to all store staff and reinforced through The Group converted to a REIT in January 2007.
The Group is therefore training and routine operational procedures.
We have continued to exposed to potential tax penalties or loss of its REIT status by failing run courses for all our staff to enhance the awareness and to comply with the REIT legislation.
The Group has internal monitoring effectiveness of our procedures in relation to security.
procedures in place to ensure that the appropriate rules and legislation are complied with.
To date all REIT regulations have been Internal audit complied with, including projected tests.
The Group does not have a formal internal audit function because the Board has concluded that the internal controls systems are sufficient Human resources risk for the Group at this time.
However, the Group employs a Store Our people are key to our success and as such we are exposed to a Compliance Manager responsible for reviewing store operational and risk of high staff turnover, and a risk of the loss of key personnel.
He reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Store We have developed a professional, lively and enjoyable working Compliance Manager visits each operational store twice a year to environment and believe our success stems from attracting and carry out a detailed store audit.
These audits are unannounced and retaining the right people.
We encourage all our staff to build on their the Store Compliance Manager carries out detailed tests on financial skills through appropriate training and regular performance reviews.
management within the stores, administrative standards, and We believe in an accessible and open culture and everyone at all operational standards.
This role is supported by an Assistant Store levels is encouraged to review and challenge accepted norms, so as Compliance Manager, enabling additional work and support to be to contribute to the performance of the Group.
With the economy carried out across the Groups store portfolio.
Part of the store staffs improving, the risk of higher staff turnover and difficulty in finding bonus is based on the scores they achieve in these audits.
The the right employees does increase.
results of each audit are reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller and the Head of Store Operations.
34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report At Big Yellow, we know the most important space of all is the environment that surrounds us.
Thats why we continue to work hard to create an environmentally friendly business.
A big green Commitment 1.0 INTRODUCTION Big Yellow recognises that high levels of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, linked to clear commercial objectives, will create a more sustainable business and increase shareholder and customer value.
This policy covers all of our operations, as a self storage provider, a real estate developer, an employer and a participant in our local communities.
Big Yellow seeks to meet the demand for self storage from businesses and private individuals providing the storage space for their commercial and or domestic needs, whilst aiding local employment creation and contributing to local community regeneration.
2.0 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 OUR PEOPLE Our people are at the heart of Big Yellows business, bringing our values to life through the service that they provide, to the energy and passion that drives us to become an ever more responsible and sustainable business.
We recognise that recruiting, retaining and motivating individuals with talent and integrity and ensuring that we listen to our people and maximise their skills and performance is key to the continued success of our Company.
We encourage a culture of partnership within the business and believe in staff participating in corporate performance through benefits, such as bonus schemes and share incentives.
We recognise and reward the exceptional performance, achievements and ideas of our people through a Points Recognition Scheme, and allocated 42,000 of points for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Wellbeing and Support We aim to promote employee wellbeing through a range of flexible working options which include flexitime, staggered hours, home working and sabbaticals.
We provide Childcare Vouchers along with a comprehensive range of medical support and advice though our occupational health providers.
We have arranged corporate gym membership on a national basis, as well as a Cycle to Work scheme.
Communication and Engagement We continue to recognise the importance of communication and consultation with an annual spring conference, regular formal and informal meetings, quarterly newsletters and weekly operational updates.
In addition, the Directors and senior management spend a significant amount of time in the stores and are accessible to employees at all levels.
A bi-annual Employee Engagement Survey provides management with key feedback and guidance as to where to focus their attention to further improve the working environment.
Training and Development We continue to promote the development of staff through ongoing training and regular performance appraisals.
For the year ended 31 March 2014 a total of 789 days training was provided across the Company, comprising both sales and operational training and personal and management development.
Our Big Impressions customer experience programme was launched in April 2013, the aim of which was to further support our people to become more in touch with our customers.
The feedback from this programme formed a key focus for the coaching of our sales teams throughout the last year.
A personal development programme designed specifically for Assistant Store Managers was introduced at the start of the year, with 14 Assistant Store Managers having completed or currently participating in the programme, to prepare them for their future progression within the Company store network.
35 Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 2.0 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Community We recognise the importance of contributing within the local community and we encourage our people to develop close links with charities, schools and other institutions, both locally and nationally, to help to build more economically sustainable environments.
For the year ended 31 March 2014 we recognised and supported ten different Company charities which were elected by our store and head office teams.
Our people undertook a variety of activities for both these and other charities, with donations also being made by the Company.
Throughout the year a total of 30,000 was raised for our Company charities and 9,000 was raised for other charities.
Examples of our fundraising activities have included: The Royal Marsden March Fifteen people from our London stores took part in the Royal Marsden March, a 14 mile sponsored walk between The Royal Marsdens hospitals in Chelsea and Sutton.
The team raised 1,615 to support cancer diagnosis, treatment, research and care.
British Heart Foundation 10 of our stores have acted as Donation Stations for the British Heart Foundation, raising a total of 7,684 from bags of unwanted clothes and household goods, which will support the charitys pioneering heart research, as well as the care of people living with heart disease.
The British Heart Foundation is thrilled with Big Yellows support over the past few months from donations of money and unwanted goods.
The charity truly values this amazing support from Big Yellows customers and staff and we look forward to continuing the good work with them.
Its great to think that someones unwanted goods can literally save lives and help to keep hearts beating.
Heather Hunt, Community Fundraising Manager, British Heart Foundation The Three Peaks Challenge This gruelling challenge, which involved climbing Ben Nevis, Scafell Pike and Snowdon in twenty four hours, was completed by one of our team members and they raised just under 2,700 for Abigails Footsteps, a charity which provides support to parents who suffer the loss of a child from a still birth.
Our construction team for new stores always subscribes to the Considerate Constructors Scheme on a voluntary basis to maintain high standards for Respect in the Community.
This was achieved for our new store fit out construction at Gypsy Corner.
They applied the principles of performance beyond compliance and were certified for caring about site: safety, security, appearance, environmental protection and workforce values, both on and off-site.
Free Storage In addition to our fundraising activities, we have also provided charities with free storage.
During the year the space occupied by charities in Big Yellow and Armadillo stores on this basis was 44,000 sq ft, worth approximately 806,000 at standard rents.
Some of the many charities that have benefited from this storage include the National Childbirth Trust, Read International, British Heart Foundation, a number of Food bank charities, and local community charities.
Young Enterprise Fourteen people at Big Yellow are currently supporting students in schools or colleges within their local communities in conjunction with Young Enterprise, a charitable organisation that creates and develops programmes that complement the school experience and encourages young people to realise the extent of their own talents.
Our volunteering has taken the form of providing classroom support, mentoring students to create their own businesses and participating in Young Enterprise regional board meetings.
Big Yellow Self Storage volunteers supported me and my Young Enterprise teams at a couple of Learn to Earn programmes in schools in South London.
Their wholehearted commitment to the day was much appreciated by Young Enterprise staff, as well as the school staff and students.
The Big Yellow Self Storage volunteers fully immersed themselves in the days, mentoring student groups, and drawing on their own experience to stress to students how education is key to future success and happiness in work and life.
Bracey Parish, Area Manager, Young Enterprise 36 We recognise the importance of contributing within the local community to help build more economically sustainable environments.
During the year the space occupied by charities in our stores was worth approximately 806,000 at standard rents.
2.2 HEALTH & SAFETY Big Yellow recognises the importance of maintaining high standards of health and safety for everyone who may be affected by our business.
The Groups Health and Safety policy for Big Yellow Self Storage and Armadillo Self Storage is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
It is applied in two distinct areas Construction and Operations.
The policy states that all employees have a responsibility for health and safety, but that managers have special responsibilities.
Additional duties are placed on Adrian Lee, Operations Director, to keep the Board advised on health and safety issues and compliance with the Policy in respect of construction activity and store operations respectively.
The Group has a Health and Safety Committee, which meets quarterly and comprises Adrian Lee and appointed Department Heads and relevant Managers.
They meet to discuss any issues that have been reported from meetings held at head office, Maidenhead our distribution warehouse, the stores and any construction sites.
In addition, the Group has appointed an external consultant to review our Policy and to perform audits of stores on a rolling programme, to ensure the implementation of the Groups Health and Safety policies.
Health and Safety audits are also carried out by external consultants on each construction site prior to the opening of a store.
Our Health and Safety Policy covers all of our stores, our head office, Maidenhead and our Fit-out construction sites.
Incidents are recorded for staff, customers, contractors and visitors.
The Board receives bi-monthly reports which monitor Health and Safety performance in all these areas.
Annual Store Health and Safety Meetings take place for all stores and Maidenhead.
Agendas are provided for these meetings via the Intranet from Facilities Management files and the minutes are reviewed by Area Managers to raise any issues with Facilities Management or Human Resources where necessary.
Health and safety performance and incidents are reported and are displayed in the tables below.
1 Big Yellow Self Storage customers, contractors and visitors The total number of health and safety incidents for the Group was 50, of which 46 were minor injuries and four were reportable.
The minor injuries comprised 31 customers, visitors and contractors and 15 staff.
There were four reportable injuries, which comprised three for customers, visitors and contractors and one staff injury.
There were also two minor injuries within Big Yellow Construction Company Limited.
Store customer, contractor and visitor health and safety 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total number of customers move-ins during the year 51,049 57,604 65,807 72,772 Number of minor injuries 41 43 34 31 Number of reportable injuries RIDDOR 3 3 RIDDOR per 100,000 4.6 5.5 Indicates data reviewed by Deloitte as part of their assurance work.
See page 44 for the independent assurance report RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation 1995 There were no fatal injuries, notices or prosecutions during the year ended 31 March 2014.
Reportable injuries were due to an increase in customer move-ins, tripping and personal disabilities.
Minor injuries were predominantly related to the handling of personal or business possessions by our customers or their removers.
37 Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 2.2.
2 Big Yellow Self Storage staff Store and head office staff health and safety 2011 2012 2013 2014 Average number of staff 273 279 316 321 Number of minor injuries 19 12 16 15 Number of reportable injuries RIDDOR 1 3 1 Annual injury incidence rate AIIR per 100,000 staff 366 949 311.5 Indicates data reviewed by Deloitte.
See page 44 for their independent assurance report From 2013 we included Armadillo staff, and corrected and restated the AIIR Annual Injury Incidence Rate There were no fatal injuries, notices or prosecutions in the year ended 31 March 2014 at any of our stores.
Our annual injury incidence rate for staff decreased mainly due to increased health and safety awareness, even though we had increased numbers of staff 2% and an increase in the number of customer move-ins 11%.
One member of staff had a reportable injury due to a fall.
3 Big Yellow Construction Company Limited Construction fit-out contractors and visitor health and safety 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of total man days 6,431 6,511 610 3,315 Number of minor injuries 11 2 Number of reportable injuries RIDDOR 1 During the year, our Gypsy Corner fit out works took place and high safety standards were maintained.
Only two minor injuries occurred.
No fatal injuries, notices, reportable injuries or prosecutions occurred indicating a well controlled environment for staff, contractors and visitors on-site.
Health and safety performance continues to be reviewed in preparation for a new store development at Enfield in the year ending 31 March 2015.
3.0 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our CSR Policy sets out how we manage the impact of our business on society and the environment, to control our risks and manage our opportunities in a sustainable way.
Big Yellow has been classified as having a low environmental impact by the Ethical Investment Research Index Series EIRIS because it is involved in Support Services FTSE4Good Index Series, Environmental, Social and Governance Rating Assessment.
Notwithstanding this, and in order to maintain an efficient and sustainable business for its Stakeholders, Big Yellow has continued to commit significant resources to the environmental and social aspects of its storage operations, real estate portfolio, new store developments and acquisitions.
This year we report in compliance with the Companies Act, Climate Change Regulation on Reporting Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions for listed companies.
For detailed application see our Basis of Reporting at: http: corporate.
We therefore provide a summary in the Directors Report of Scope 1 and 2 carbon dioxide equivalent CO e emissions.
We also use the recently 2 published DEFRA DECC conversion factors, revised from five year, to one year, rolling averages, which show annual GHG emissions reductions more accurately.
See page 44 for their independent assurance report Peak energy use and benchmark year for medium term performance assessment We have restated annual emissions back to 2011, a peak energy use and carbon emission benchmark year, to present information on the most comparable basis.
Our future four year carbon reduction programme for the years to March 2018 is to continue with our programmes of energy efficiency and investment in low carbon solar electricity generation.
Our main carbon intensity measure is kg CO e customer 2 2 occupied space m, as this reflects new store openings and customer service use.
Our materiality threshold for energy use is 5%, and for carbon emissions is 1%.
A limited level of assurance is provided for our Scope 1 and 2 energy use, GHG emissions and health and safety data.
This assurance was undertaken by Deloitte LLP in accordance with the International Standards on Assurance Engagements 3000 ISAE 3000.
For 12 stores, Big Yellow only has a 33% financial interest, however we manage the buildings and utilities at these sites.
We have opted to capture their operational footprint and have reported this in our consolidated emissions reporting.
We have not opted for equity share reporting for these sites.
The ISAE 3000 Standard provides an evaluation of both quantitative and qualitative aspects of our CSR management and reporting.
We report our energy use for our owned and joint venture stores: our head office in Bagshot, Surrey: and our packing materials warehouse in Maidenhead.
Our environmental report does not include any of the 10 managed Armadillo stores.
Energy use and Scope 1 on-site and Scope 2 off-site carbon emissions are major operational costs and have a significant environmental impact.
Peak energy demand in 2011 was chosen as our benchmark year, due to a previous period of increased business growth through new store openings and increased customer occupancy.
39 Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 4.0 MANDATORY CSR REPORTING EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Scope 1 Direct On-site Gas and Coolant GHG Emissions tCO e 2011 2012 2013 2014 2 Natural Gas kWh 656,017 742,086 716,508 652,181 Coolant Use Kg 0 2.8 66.5 112.4 Total Scope 1 tCO e 121.5 140.6 419.0 474.8 2 Indicates data reviewed by Deloitte.
See page 44 for their independent assurance report Peak coolant replacement air conditioners.
Scope 1 emissions are from natural gas use for heating flexi-offices, and from coolant replacement in air conditioning units.
These emissions represent only 8.4% of our combined scope 1 and 2 emissions that are under our control.
Coolant replacement increased, as a consequence of regular service maintenance checks.
Natural gas use for heating offices has increased in the colder winters.
Company van diesel and construction fit out gas oil use emissions are less than 0.1% of total Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and are therefore not a material impact.
Scope 1 Direct On-site Solar Electricity Generation 2011 2012 2013 2014 Solar Generation kWh 107,074 134,297 208,807 285,832 Solar Electricity % of Total Electricity Use 0.8 1.0 1.6 2.4 Indicates data reviewed by Deloitte.
See page 44 for their independent assurance report We have been investing in the generation of renewable energy since 2008 and our solar electricity generation has been increasing, due to more recent investments in larger 50 kWp capacity installations.
Annual solar electricity generation has been increasing by on average 39% since 2011.
Solar electricity has saved 138 tonnes of Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions in the year ended 31 March 2014, and has saved 363 tonnes since 2011.
See page 44 for their independent assurance report Peak energy use and benchmark year for future reductions Electricity from off-site power station emissions account for some 94.7% of our annual energy consumption in the year ended 31 March 2014, compared to 96.0% in 2011.
GHG emissions have reduced by 23.0%, including Gypsy Corner fit out construction, since 2011, due to our continued investment in energy efficiency programmes such as installing motion sensor lighting and LED re-lamping.
Our energy efficiency investments prior to 2011 included motion sensor lighting, new store solar PV installations, wind turbines and ground source heat pump technologies.
Scope 2 Long Term GHG Emission Reduction Targets % 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 tCO e 6,758 6,143 6,051 5,207 5,069 4,731 4,393 4,055 2 % reductions 9% 10.5% 23.4% 25% 30% 35% 40% Our future programmes for re-lamping stores internally and externally with energy efficient LED lighting is to be continued during the year ending 31 March 2015 and beyond.
Additional investment in solar PV installations at our existing highest energy using stores will also be implemented in the year ending 31 March 2015.
The long term target is to reduce our GHG emissions from peak energy use in 2011, by 40% in 2018.
40 Annual solar electricity generation has been increasing by on average 39% since 2011.
See page 44 for their independent assurance report We have achieved a 31.3% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per customer occupied space from 2011 to 2014.
We have continued our investment in energy efficient and low carbon programmes to displace our dependence on power station supplied electricity.
5.0 SCOPE 3 VOLUNTARY SUPPLY CHAIN EMISSIONS Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions Scope 3 supply chain emissions represent GHG emission losses during electricity supplier transmission and distribution to our stores.
% change Scope 3 Supply Chain Electricity Supply and Distribution from GHG Emission Losses tCO e 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2 Electricity Supply kWh 13,925,217 13,588,703 13,153,960 11,688,629 16.1% Supply Losses tCO e 544 525 501 445 18.2% 2 Scope 2 3 Emissions 7,302 6,668 6,552 5,652 22.6% Peak energy use and benchmark year Our energy efficiency programmes have reduced electricity use within our stores and also the associated transmission and distribution losses by 18.2% since 2011.
