Strategic report c orPorate resPonsiBility a t BritisH lanD our customers and their stakeholders prefer We identify the social, environmental and efficient, modern places, which are integrated ethical issues that matter most by working well into the surrounding area and are with people across the business, engaging often developed in collaboration with local with external stakeholders, consulting experts, communities.
this enhances peoples daily reviewing best practice, benchmarking our lives at work, at home or out shopping.
these performance, monitoring the external context places also benefit from the actions we take and carrying out risk assessments.
this year, to future proof against physical risks caused 750 stakeholders completed an online survey by increased flooding and rising temperatures.
exploring social and environmental issues related to our business, over 100 experts at British land, we have worked very hard appraised our approach to carbon and energy to ensure that corporate responsibility is management, and many participated in integrated into our business, with social, independently facilitated workshops on environmental and ethical factors considered key social and environmental issues.
and managed at every level.
that is why, this year, we have integrated corporate Different stakeholders have markedly different responsibility information throughout this priorities and we need to strike a balance.
so, dear sHareHOlder, report, reflecting how we not only create alongside our other stakeholder engagement i am delighted to have taken the value for our investors but make a broader activities, our corporate responsibility Panel, contribution for our other key stakeholders chaired by chris grigg, includes external lead for corporate responsibility and the society in which we operate.
experts who provide market insights on at British land, an area that changing trends in their fields and challenge our our size and substance demand a responsible approach.
through our corporate responsibility i have always been interested in.
across all our activities, committee, we then develop and implement it is in keeping with our mindset we take great care to try to ensure that our our strategy and monitor performance.
impacts are positive, for our occupiers, local that the person responsible communities, investors, suppliers and the our long-term social and environmental for finance is also responsible wider environment.
targets will conclude in March 2015.
We have made good progress on these during the year, for social, environmental and our properties attract over 300 million visits as detailed in our full Data report 2014. each year and are places where almost 100,000 ethical issues.
our commitment During the coming year, we will continue to people work or live.
through our five-year focus on delivering these targets and will also to these issues helps us to development programme, we are supporting implement our supply chain plan to address a further 32,300 jobs, fuelling growth and create places people prefer, and key social and environmental issues, notably engaging with local communities.
We work so to deliver long-term value.
increasing our focus on human rights.
We are with our supply chain to create apprenticeships, working with the Princes accounting for giving people the chance to learn while they sustainability Project to put sustainability at the earn at our assets, at the same time as heart of business decision making, strategy and developing the workforce of tomorrow for our reporting.
areas that have proved challenging sector.
our community programme also stands this year that we will continue to focus on, both out for the high level of staff involvement, with directly and through our supply chain, include over three quarters of our people volunteering local procurement and employment, renewable this year.
energy in existing buildings and embodied in addition, we work closely with our supply carbon on developments.
chain to manage carbon emissions and other i look forward to working with our team environmental impacts at our properties and and expert partners to develop our strategy developments.
i continue to be pleased with the further and set new long-term targets substantial reductions we have achieved in in the coming year.
landlord-influenced energy costs for occupiers.
corporate responsibility information this reflects the way we run our business, with is integrated throughout this report.
our customer orientation and environmental emphasis.
Our strategy and carbon data lucinda bell, finance director P2223 chair of the corporate risks responsibility committee P3841 the corporate responsibility committee P65 strategic rePOrt aPPrOval the strategic report, outlined on pages ePra sustainability reporting 2 to 42, incorporates what we do, our portfolio, P174 places people prefer, chairmans review, chief executives review, business model, tony braine for more detail on our strategy www.
com responsibility markets, strategy, KPis, managing risks company secretary and corporate responsibility.
13 May 2014 for more detail on our performance www.
com crdata By order of the Board 42 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 governance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 PerforMance reVieW Business review Portfolio review 44 retail and leisure review 47 office and residential review 49 financial review 51 financial policies and principles 56 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
