Strategic report People Our people are energised and inspired by our vision to deliver a compelling shopping experience People who work at Intu are passionate Talent development Our employees are fundamental about what they do and proud of our In 2014, we appointed a talent manager to the success of our business and reputation as the market leader of the to help us achieve our aim to provide the the delivery of our brand promise UKshopping centre industry.
same access to learning and development to all our customers opportunities for all intu employees We expect the best from our employees, regardless of location role or level.
and in return we are committed to offering a stimulating and rewarding working We also: environment where they can achieve their implemented a structured leadership personal and professional goals as they programme to support succession accomplish challenging business targets.
Our values planning, identifying a group of senior Creative We appoint the best people, and develop managers to work with internal and We look at the familiar and we their talent, promoting internally and external talent development specialists.
see something different: we are rewarding commitment and innovation Two senior managers have now been insightful and imaginative, but whenever we see it.
promoted to the Executive Committee not for their own sake, for we And it works 83 per cent of our staff created a comprehensive and consistent never lose sight of what is declared themselves proud to work for induction programme forcentre staff important and relevant intu, up 2 per cent on last year.
extended performance appraisal Bold Our HR strategy is built around five key systems to staff at all levels We act confidently and decisively, themes to complement our corporate always knowingly, perhaps at times strategy.
We focus on three of these controversially, but never rashly inthisyears report.
or without consideration Genuine We are true to ourselves, act fairly and communicate clearly: we say what we mean and we mean what we say.
We recognise our obligations Talent to our stakeholders and the wider development society, and commit to put our utmost into everything we do Employee Reward and engagement recognition HR Strategy Performance Employee management life-cycle 32 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report Career development at Intu: Carly North Left: Carly started her career with us in 1999 as a customer care assistant at intu Lakeside.
She was promoted to marketing coordinator and after a spell at intu Bromley as assistant marketing manager she returned to intu Lakeside as customer services manager in 2011 Staff at intu Merry Hill Employee survey 2014 Eighty four per cent of staff took part in the annual employee survey in November 2,032 out of 2,427 eligible employees.
Scores were up again in 42 of the questions measured in previous surveys, and in over half the questions at least 70 per cent of respondents agreed or strongly agreed with the proposition.
The overall engagement score now stands at 747 2013 732 with favourable movement in all five domains that make up the engagement index: work environment, reward, development, operating culture and line of sight.
Next year we will: Employee engagement Engaging with our staff, taking them extend the leadership programme and with us on intus journey to achieve its consolidate thesuccession plan to staff 9 1% ambitious targets, is crucial to our progress.
at all levels Of all staff agree intu They need to understand our business and puts customers at the develop assessment techniques to know how they can contribute to feel part heart of everything we do better evaluate skills and resources of the team.
throughout the organisation For the third year in a row our employee encourage staff to gain cross-functional survey records a rise in employee experience through project-working engagement, from 701 in 2011 to 747 in2014.
build on the success of World Class Service through a series of development 8 3% sessions focusing on delivering Of our staff are acompelling experience proud to work for intu introduce a national apprenticeship scheme work towards achieving the Investors in People standard at all our intu branded centres 33 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report People continued continue to encourage staff In 2014 we: Employee numbers to take part in Intus corporate kept our staff informed with regular responsibility, community support business briefings at national and local andsustainability programmes level, and created a new employee 2, 4 59 handbook for intu Retail Services staff expand our induction programmes 2013: 2,027 tocover the full cycle of onboarding carried out brand immersion events continue to review flexible fornew staff working options Leavers in their developed an action plan based first year onthe2013 employee survey learn from the experience of staffwholeave us introduced a new employee Reward and recognition volunteering programme 1 9 % Our competitive remuneration structure relaunched the Employee Assistance 2013: 35% helps to retain and motivate the best with Programme provided by the base salaries benchmarked against our Retail Trust peers in the industry.
Many employees rolled out new policies for are eligible for an annual bonus based whistleblowing and use of social media on corporate measures that reflect the executive remuneration policy and Next year we will: are related to individual performance.
improve internal communications A proportion of the annual bonus is networks further awarded in deferred shares to encourage focus on the Companys growth.
deliver the action plans arising from Managers may also be rewarded with the2014 employee survey longer-term share options and many staff develop our intranet making content can join a Share Incentive Plan subject to accessible to all staff, including aqualification period.
employees who do not have direct daily access to the Intu network 34 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report In 2014 we: Service profile Human rights Under 1 year 1-10 years made a voluntary defined contribution At Intu we respect the dignity, liberty pension plan available to all intu Retail and equality of everyone we work 16% 65% Services staff for the first time with.
Our policies and procedures are 2013: 15% 2013: 64% introduced intus first national consistent with the United Nations recognition and reward scheme called universal declaration of human rights, 10-20 years over 20 years Win Your Dream, which allows staff which sets a common standard 16% 3% at all levels to nominate colleagues of achievement for all peoples and 2013: 17% 2013: 4% for outstanding achievement linked all nations.
toour values We are committed to implementing the Next year we will: UN guiding principles on business and Age profile human rights.
Under 30 30-50 complete a comprehensive remuneration review across all parts We only work with people who choose 19% 47% ofthe business to work freely and we respect their 2013: 18% 2013: 48% rights to equal opportunities and ask the Remuneration Committee to freedom of association.
We work with Over 50 review proposals and approve Senior our suppliers, retailers and associated Manager and Executive Director salary companies to ensure they meet 34% levels and bonus awards acceptable standards of human dignity 2013: 34% in their own sourcing policies.
promote share ownership opportunities to all staff to enhance engagement We will continue to evaluate the pay Gender profile Recruitment and conditions of all our employees, Female Male in particular new staff on or near to In line with our policy of developing our minimum wage, to bring them into talent we have filled many of our new roles 40% 60% line with the rest of our staff in terms from internal applicants.
Five shopping 2013: 37% 2013: 63% of wages and benefits and ensure fair centres have new general managers, working conditions.
four of whom are internal promotions or transfers.
Fair treatment of people who work Gender profile for Intu or our suppliers is a key senior managers Most of our large scale recruitment is due focus of our corporate responsibility Female Male to expansion as well as the transfer of approach.
As appropriate our Board staff when we acquired intu Derby and intu CR Committee and CR Management 29% 71% Merry Hill, werecruited 468 new people Committee consider the potential 2013: 27% 2013: 73% into the Group during 2014. human rights risks faced by Intu and assess approaches to mitigate those risks.
We appoint the Career development at Intu: Gavin Prior best people and develop Left: When teenage night school student their talent, promoting Gavin Prior responded to a newspaper advert for the role of Administration internally and rewarding Assistant at The Harlequin now intu Watford in 1996 he probably didnt commitment and think that within 16 years he would be at the helm of a super-regional destination.
innovation wherever From Services Manager to Operations Manager at intu Metrocentre, he became we see it one of Intus youngest general managers at intu Metrocentre in 2012.
He has recently been seconded to intu Merry Hill, one ofintus newest editions to the portfolio 35 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk e B r a u l t a c n u c r e t d s a l a p t p i r p o a a c c t h s t u o b r i o s R k s r i e n l t b u a b Strategic report People continued Energised and inspired Left: People who work at Intu are passionate about what they do and proud of our reputation as the market leader of the UK shopping centre industry How are we structured?
Our teams are grouped into six specialisms that underpin our business model p8 Our for more information about customers the business model Asset management Development and construction Finance Drives the success of the centres by delivering Responsible for the planning, management Provides reports and analysis of the Groups sustainable asset growth through innovation, and delivery of new build, refurbishment and financial performance, maintains a robust sound investment and commercial decisionextension projects across the portfolio from financial control framework and provides making, including proactive leasing of retail inception through to completion.
rigorous financial analysis and appraisals units, dealing with rent reviews and lease ofprojects and strategic options to support renewals, and managing smaller active executive decision-making.
Commercial and digital Operations and intu Retail Services Governance and support Adds value to assets through excellence and Each shopping centre is led by a dedicated Encompasses Legal, Secretariat, Human innovation in the disciplines of marketing, general manager working within regional resources, Corporate responsibility, customer experience and digital technology to structures.
intu Retail Services provides total Communications and Public relations.
build the brand and encourage customers to facilities management ensuring each centre come more often and stay longer.
Includes intu is properly maintained and that there is a Experiences which delivers income through welcoming, clean, safe and secure environment advertising and brand partnerships.
The digital for retailers and customers.
team is responsible for information and communications technology operations and project delivery across the spectrum of digital activity, including our transactional website, intu.
36 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk r n a e n d r u O s L e o e n y g o - l t p e r m m e f d o e c t u n s e l a T Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report Focus on: intu Retail Services Motivating our people to give their best e know from Tell intu that when our customers have a great experience at one of W our centres, they are more likely to stay longer, spend more, come back sooner and tell their friends.
The perfect intu customer experience depends on our people and the positive interactions they have with our customers.
So in 2013 we created intu Retail Services to bring all frontline staff working in our centres in-house.
We wanted to ensure every member of staff feels part of the intu team and has a strong connection to Intu as a wider Group.
It also allows us to train all our staff in our World Class Service programme so that every member of the intu Retail Services staff understands the need to continually improve the experience of customers and retailers and to provide great standards and great service.
Our focus this year has been on recruitment, induction and training to ensure staff have the right skills.
A great by-product has been a more motivated and committed workforce with a dramatic reduction in staff who leave within their first year of service, down from 35 per cent to 19 per cent.
Turnover is down by 18 per cent overall and absence levels are down by 15 per cent.
The success of our approach has been independently recognised.
At this years industry awards we won the PFM Partners in Retail Facilities award and intu is the only shopping centre business to be accredited by the Institute of Customer Service.
Tell intu continues to highlight how much our customers value staff who are knowledgeable and always looking to provide the best experience.
37 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
