Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 53 Investment management Improving resource efficiency We recognise the importance of including sustainability considerations within our investment decisions.
As part of our through refurbishment due diligence procedures on asset purchases, our Investment management team ensures that key information collected through a sustainability checklist is provided to the Asset management team prior to purchase completion.
As part of our ready for sale procedures, similar information isprepared for purchasers.
In anticipation of the introduction ofminimum energy performance standards in 2018, we continue to operate a watchlist of properties with an E, F or G Energy Performance Certificate EPC rating.
35% of these properties aredue At our refurbishment of 28,550 sq ft at 200 Grays Inn Road, toenter development prior to2018, while the remaining WC1, resource efficiency measures implemented included: properties are reviewed on a quarterly basis to ensure that installing an energy efficient lighting system, which where floors are vacated, opportunities are taken toincorporate minimised energy consumption and provided improved energy efficiencies into refurbishment plans to improve the controllability for building users: EPC rating.
the use of more efficient insulation: selecting blinds to minimise solar gain within the oor space: Asset management installing a new BMS system, which interfaced with the efficient resource management landlord system and provided for improved zonal control: During the year, we continued our programme of energy and providing reusable items such as carpet tiles, ceiling tiles water case studies.
Improvement measures identified from and plasterboard partitions to another tenant for their own those case studies, together with those undertaken in 2013, refurbishment work: have been included in individual building energy action plans ensuring that mechanical and electrical equipment removed and are implemented as part of planned maintenance.
The from the oor was provided to the building maintenance impact of these improvements is then monitored through team as spares or recycled where not reusable: monthly analysis of energy consumption data.
recycling 96% of waste, which was not reused: Increasing tenant engagement is critical if we are to reduce providing soft oor coverings, which were more than 50% energy consumption at our properties and we continue to liaise recycled content: and with tenants on resource efficiency through regular tenant ensuring that all timber elements were FSC certied meetings and encourage the adoption of similar technologies products.
For the year ending March 2015, As tenants move into the space, our building management we will introduce new Environmental Working Groups team will work with tenants to ensure that their systems specifically focused on energy, waste, water and other are fully integrated with landlord operated systems and sustainability issues at properties over 50,000 sq ft. energy consumption is monitored on a monthly basis.
The Environmental Working Group already in place at the property will also provide the tenants with an opportunity to regularly Refurbishments feedback to our building management team.
We use our smaller refurbishments and fit-out works as an opportunity to improve the energy efficiency of our managed GPEs target for silver ratings at 200 Grays Inn Road properties.
When undertaking refurbishments we recognise wasattained through the close collaboration of the design, that there are other sustainability implications such as contractor and building management teams to ensure that opportunities were maximised to reduce the environmental responsible sourcing of materials and waste management.
We, therefore, undertake SKA ratings.
Operated by RICS, SKArating is an environmental assessment tool for sustainable Rob Smith Project Manager, Overbury fit-outs.
Used on all our significant refurbishments under 50,000sq ft, the SKA rating provides a flexible framework to manage the sustainability impacts of refurbishment works and challenges our designers and contractors on both elements of design and delivery.
We also encourage our tenants to follow 54 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Sustainability a similar approach where undertaking their works through our In many cases, the embodied carbon involved in the tenant guide.
In the year, we achieved a silver rating for the two production and installation of renewable technologies by floors we refurbished at 200 Grays Inn Road and our works at faroutweighs the carbon reductions associated with their Foxglove House.
Recognising that embodied carbon is likely to become an integral part of BREEAM and the planning Development management process, for the year ended March 2014 we carried out lifecycle analysis to calculate embodied carbon in the structure, Outperforming environmental standards cladding and building services of three developments.
In order to ensure that we continue to deliver flexible, high quality space, it is critical that the sustainability credentials An assessment was undertaken at 95 Wigmore Street, W1 ofour developments outperform current environmental post-completion, to provide us with a baseline where embodied standards and anticipate future market needs.
We regularly carbon had not been considered.
The study identified cost review changes to regulations, planning requirements and neutral changes which could have saved 5,500 tonnes of bestpractice, which inform our target setting process.
Our embodied carbon as compared with the 2,000,000 it would Sustainable Development Brief outlines our approach for our have cost to make the same savings through renewables.
consultants and contractors and requires the best practicable As a result of these findings, St Lawrence House, W1 and environmental option to be employed when considering 73 89Oxford Street, W1 currently at RIBA Stage D, were energy, water, waste and biodiversity strategies for the property.
reviewed to ascertain where design changes could be made prior For our new developments, we are committed to achieving to starting on-site to reduce the associated embodied carbon.
BREEAM Excellent ratings with a minimum of a very good Options being considered include a review of construction rating targeted for major refurbishments.
As a matter of routine techniques such as the type of formwork used, the cooling we look to develop buildings with energy efficiency ofat least strategy of the building, sourcing of certain materials such as 25% above Part L Regulations 2010 and, for the forthcoming concrete to find local alternatives and increasing the recycled year, we will aim to improve on 2010 requirements by 35%.
content of steel and suspended ceilings.
Following these reviews, Where BREEAM requirements are updated, we carry out a gap it is intended that revised processes will be included within our analysis on current projects to review how our developments Sustainable Development Brief to ensure that embodied carbon can be adapted to achieve new requirements.
Given planned is considered at the outset for future projects.
changes to the BREEAM rating system expected to be In order to reduce the carbon associated with our development implemented in 2014, this process is underway for those activities, it is essential that efficient construction techniques projects currently in design stage.
We have found that the use of Building Information In order to monitor achievement against our corporate targets, Modelling BIM improves collaboration between the design both our Sustainable Development Brief and Tracker are team and contractors, solving design issues in a virtual applied to all projects, with the Tracker reviewed at each RIBA environment before they are realised on-site.
This in turn stage to ensure that key targets and benchmarks are met.
The reduces waste and improves sequencing.
We, therefore, Tracker, bespoke to each project, is updated at least annually to continue to take a leading role in the use of BIM and will ensure that it reflects our corporate targets, current legislative implement BIM on all new build development projects and requirements and anticipates revisions to legislative, planning, pilot its use on one refurbishment project by March 2016. industry, BREEAM and LEED requirements.
Weare also reviewing opportunities to utilise BIM when See our Sustainable Development Brief at www.
co. uk moving from construction to fit-out and setting our facilities responsibility  management strategy for new developments.
Many of the materials used within our developments have Handover of buildings to tenants complex supply chains.
We require concrete and steel to be To ensure that our developments continue to meet tenant responsibly sourced using recognised accreditation schemes expectations, it is essential that we work with our tenants during and all new developments and major refurbishments to their fit-out process to ensure that the transition of the building achieveForest Stewardship Council Project Certification.
from development through commissioning, fit-out and into occupation is managed effectively.
From 1 April 2014, we have Reducing embodied carbon committed to following the Soft Landings approach on all Whilst most current legislation focuses on operational ofour new build developments and major refurbishments, emissions, there is a growing understanding that the emissions ensuring that our designers and constructors stay involved with generated by the construction and maintenance of a property our new buildings beyond practical completion.
This will assist should be considered when reviewing the carbon footprint our tenants and building management team during the first ofabuilding.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 55 production film work requirements.
We worked with Double 240 Blackfriars: a BIM journey Negative to establish a scope for the post occupancy evaluation, to ensure that feedback was obtained both on our design of the building and Double Negatives fit-out.
As part of the evaluation, a questionnaire was circulated to all employees and included: the effectiveness of ventilation: air quality: the design of entrance, reception and circulation areas: lift provision: shower and toilet facilities: and Our scheme at 240 Blackfriars Road, SE1 has a complicated structural design, with raked facades and an intricate roof cycle storage.
With over 300 tonnes of steel being 97% of respondents said that the building met their needs.
constructed nearly 90 metres above ground level, it was Valuable qualitative feedback was also received on the essential that cladding, steelwork and services installation were fully co-ordinated prior to construction.
flexibility of artificial lighting controls, the effectiveness of breakout areas and the quantity and quality of showers.
This Building Information Modelling BIM enabled us to: feedback will be used by both our project and tenant fit-out detect clashes in a 3D environment, minimising co-ordination teams when preparing other speculative schemes to ensure we issues on-site between structural, architectural and services are designing our buildings to meet potential occupier needs.
elements: Apost occupancy evaluation is now underway for 24 Britton carry out construction rehearsals in a 4D timeline to identify Street, EC1 with further surveys planned atour recently sequencing and logistics issues to ensure the programme completed properties, 33 Margaret Street, W1 and was as efficient as possible, this mitigated delays caused 95WigmoreStreet, W1.
by exceptional weather conditions during the construction period: Working with the local community achieve our sustainability objectives through an increase in As one of our stakeholders, it is important that we consider the off-site manufacture and reduced wastage on-site due to local community, particularly where we are developing.
We, improved sequencing and improved energy modelling: and therefore, ensure that community initiatives are implemented on all construction projects with costs over 10,000,000.
At provide the model and information to our occupiers to allow 240Blackfriars Road, SE1 an Employment and Skills Manager them to gain efficiencies in their own t-out.
wasemployed to co-ordinate apprenticeships, training and By implementing BIM we signicantly reduced the risk budget engagement with local schools and colleges.
66 local people for the project.
For every 1 invested in the process we saved secured employment within the Mace supply chain as a approximately 2 in the contract sum.
resultof the support of the project, with 58 of these securing sustainable employment lasting 26 weeks or more.
Tours months of operation and beyond, to help fine-tune the systems, werearranged for Lewisham and Southwark College, City and ensure that management staff and our tenants understand ofWestminster College and the University of Westminster, how to control and best use the building.
inaddition to a number of open days with local job centres toprovide pre-employment training to their candidates.
Post Occupancy Evaluation Initiatives have also been implemented at our City Tower, EC2 We are committed to carrying out a post occupation evaluation and Walmar House, W1 projects with building tours for local 12 months after our developments are occupied.
This review educational establishments being undertaken and a blood also includes tenant wellbeing and allows us to provide donor drive being co-ordinated through our Walmar House feedback to both our project teams and the tenant fit-out teams project.
For the year to March 2015, we have committed where appropriate.
toworking with our construction partners to create 15apprenticeships at our construction sites.
We will also During the year, we undertook a post occupancy evaluation becarrying out a socioeconomic assessment at our at160 Great Portland Street, W1 which had been pre-let to RathboneSquare, W1 development to review the impact Double Negative prior to practical completion.
The building ofourdevelopment onthe local community.
had beendelivered to a shell and core with an enhanced services provision to meet Double Negatives unique post See our case study on pages 18 and 19 56 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Sustainability Achievement against our key sustainability targets Investment management Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By aligning our reporting of Communication with Investors Enhance long-term value environmental data with EPRA, shareholders.
byconsidering sustainability we ensure that our information is risks in investment cycles and more comparable with our peer communicating our approach group, allowing our investors to toinvestors.
gain a clearer insight into our performance.
Asset management Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By reducing energy we reduce Adverse regulatory risk Tenants Meet changing tenant needs costs to tenants through our and minimise voids by managing service charge.
Engagement with tenants Adverse regulatory risk Tenants improves performance on Employees sustainability and reduces costs through the service charge.
By maintaining positive Failure to maximise income from Tenants relationships with our tenants investment properties through Employees it enables us to manage our low tenant retention.
vacancy rate in accordance withourwiderstrategy.
Development management Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By adapting in advance of Poor development returns Tenants Reduce obsolescence and regulatory changes we reduce relating to the quality and enhance long-term value by Investors obsolescence and increase benchmark of the completed developing sustainable buildings.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 57 Target Progress made against target Align company reporting In progress In addition to our Environmental data report, an additional EPRA aligned report will withEPRA sustainability best be included on our website by the end of May 2014. practice guidelines by March 2014.
Target Progress made against target To achieve energy savings across An energy reduction of 18% was achieved across 54% of our properties 72% the investment portfolio on a on a like-for-like basis, equating to a reduction in carbon emissions of 16%.
like-for-like basis at a level of We have worked hard to make real energy 2.5% or better over the year for 75% of the properties in efficiencies across our portfolio.
are the result of aconcerted team effort between 2015 Target our contractors andBuilding Managers.
To achieve energy savings of Our new Environmental WorkingGroups 2.5% or better over the year overthe investment portfolio and our smart metering programmeshould ona like-for-like basis.
assist us in identifying furthersavings during the forthcoming year.
Valentine Alexander Building Services Manager, GPE Introduce Environmental Working Our EWG at City Place House, EC2 was set up in December 2013.
Due to 50% Groups EWG at our two refurbishment works undertaken during the year, the City Tower EWG will properties over 100,000 sqft besetupin the coming year.
in order to engage tenants in resource efficiency action plans.
2015 Target To introduce EWGs at properties between 50,000 sq ft and 100,000 sq ft.
Improve or maintain the level 85% of our tenant satisfaction surveys rated the services we provide as being better 85% oftenant satisfaction per than last year.
property from 2013 baseline The opening of our flagship store in time for our survey by March 2014.
20thanniversary celebrations is testament tothe hard work ofthe GPE Asset management team working efficiently andeffectively with our legal and property team.
Chris McKendrick Commercial Director, Cath Kidston Target Progress made against target Achieve a BREEAM rating Projects completed during the year ended March 2014 100% of Excellent on all new Property BREEAM Rating build developments and Very good or Excellent New build 95 Wigmore Street, W1 Excellent .
Refurbishment City Tower, EC2 Very good 2015 Target Target retained.
Projects on-site during the year ended March 2014 Property BREEAM Rating New build 240 Blackfriars Road, SE1 Excellent certicate pending 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4 Excellent targeted Refurbishment Walmar House, W1 Very good targeted 58 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Sustainability Achievement against our key sustainability targets Development management continued Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By adapting in advance of Poor development returns Suppliers Reduce obsolescence and regulatory changes, we reduce relating to the quality and enhance long-term value by obsolescence and increase benchmark of the completed developing sustainable buildings.
By diverting waste from landll Poor development returns Suppliers we reduce the impact on the relating to the quality and environment and reduce costs benchmark of the completed associated with landll tax.
Workplace Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By developing our people we Strategic priorities not achieved Employees Developing a sustainable seek to improve their personal job because of inability to develop business in partnership with our satisfaction whilst enhancing the and motivate talented employees.
employees, the local community effectiveness of our teams.
To build on our reputation as Loss or injury to employees, Tenants and the community, To provide a safe and healthy acompany that people want tenants, the public and suppliers and employees.
working environment for all toworkwith.
contractors and resultant employees and contractors reputational damage.
working on premises, visiting members of the public and all others affected by the activities of the Company.
660 464 259 248 156 136 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 59 Target Progress made against target Divert 95% of non-hazardous 99% of demolition waste was diverted from landll.
100% demolition and strip out waste and 90% of non-hazardous 99% of construction waste was diverted from landll.
construction and t-out waste from landll.
Carry out life cycle analysis Embodied carbon assessment undertaken at 73 89Oxford Street, W1 and 100% tocalculate embodied carbon StLawrence House, W1 and post-construction at 95WigmoreStreet, W1.
in the structure, cladding and building services of three The common themes identified from developments with construction our embodied carbon assessments will costs over 10,000,000 by March 2015. be included within the next update of our Sustainable Development Brief to 2015 Target To carry out embodied carbon ensure that best practice measures analysis on all new build are rolled out acrossallprojects.
James Pellatt Head of Projects, GPE Target Progress made against target Provide an average of at least Three days training provided per employee 100% 1.5days training per employee p. a.
2015 Target Total number of training hours To provide an average of at least 700 2 days training per employee p. a.
600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Governance and Environmental Estate Finance Health & IT human resources management Safety development To achieve zero injury days 2012 2013 2014 100% amongst employees.
Number of reportable injuries 1 2 0 Achieve zero reportable incidents.
100% First aid injuries 2 6 10 Achieve zero prohibition notices Work related fatalities 0 0 0 or fines.
100% Number of Enforcement Agency prosecutions or fines 0 0 0 Number of prohibition notices 0 0 0 Employee accidents and incidents 0 2 2 Number of employee days off work 0 0 0 60 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 61 How we manage risk The successful management of risk is essential to enable the Group to deliver on its strategic priorities.
Whilst the ultimate responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, the foundation of effective day-to-day management of risk is in the way we do business and the culture of our team.
Our at organisational structure, with close involvement of senior management in all significant decisions combined with our cautious and analytical approach, is designed to align the Groups interests with those ofshareholders.
Board oversight Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Operational Committees erational Committ Executive Committee weekly Development Investment Strategy update Corporate responsibility Asset management management management quarterly quarterly review weekly weekly quarterly Development Asset management Financial management management review Environmental policy weekly weekly quarterly quarterly Policies for highlighting and contr licies for highlighting and controlling risk olling ri Investment return Regular review of business plans, Development appraisal benchmarks dashboard lead indicators and parameters operational parameters Debt leverage, covenant Leasing objectives and tenant compliance and liquidity limits Occupancy targets covenant testing Procedures and internal controls High level risk Extensive documentation to Dened performance indicators assessment framework support decisions with sensitivity analysis Strict approval Formal policies and procedures External review of requirements consistently applied key controls People and culture Focused market expertise Integrity in business conduct Conservative attitude to capital deployment Open communication Interests aligned with shareholders Analytical rigour Transparent disclosure Qualied and experienced with stakeholders personnel with specic roles Business risk 62 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 How we manage risk The Group views effective risk management as integral to the delivery of superior returns to shareholders and seeks to ex operational risk in tune with the property cycle as described on page7.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the business, and their likelihood and theprocesses through which the Company aims to manage those risks are: Market risk Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation Central London real estate Reduced margin The execution of the Groups strategy covering the key market underperforms of outperformance areas of investment, development and asset management otherUKproperty sectors is adjusted and updated throughout theyear, informed by regular research into the economy, the investment and occupational markets.
The Groups strategic priorities and transactions are considered in light of regular review of dashboard lead indicators and operational parameters.
The Group aims to maintain low financial leverage throughout the property cycle.
Economic recovery falters Worse than expected Regular economic updates are received and scenario performance of planning is undertaken for different economic cycles.
thebusiness 69.3% of income from committed developments alreadysecured.
Investment management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities Mitigation difficulty in sourcing Not sufciently capitalising The Group has dedicated resources whose remit is to investment opportunities on market investment constantly research each of the sub-markets within at attractive prices, poor conditions central London seeking the right balance of investment investment decisions and development opportunities suitable for current and andmis-timed recycling anticipated market conditions.
ofcapital Regular review of property cycle by reference todashboard of lead indicators.
Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all acquisitions prior to purchase to ensure appropriate returns.
Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis to ensure the appropriate rotation of those buildings with limited relative potential performance.
Regular review of the prospective performance of individual assets and their business plans with jointventure partners.
Inappropriate asset Reduced liquidity Regular review of portfolio mix and asset concentration.
concentration, mix and and relative property Adjustment of the portfolio as appropriate through lotsize performance undertaking acquisitions and or development projects injointventure or forward funding.
Crystalise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 63 Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The central London real estate market has considerably outperformed the wider UK market during the year ended 31March2014, demonstrated by IPDs central London TPR exceeding IPDs universe by 2.5 percentage points on an absolutebasis and the outlookcontinues to be favourable.
Our market on pages 24 to 27 Over the last 12 months, the UK economy has substantially improved, with the focus shifting from the risk of an impending Eurozone crisis to economic growth and the outlook for interestrates.
Our market on pages 24 to 27 Impact change Likelihood change fromlast year from last year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group has continued to invest and recycle capital against abackdrop ofmoderate capital value growth in central London andasurfeit of buyers tosellers in the investment market.
Lack of available stock mitigated by depth of opportunity in currentportfolio.
During the year, one acquisition of 90 million was made together with disposals of 269 million at premium to book value of 9.5%.
Our market on pages 24 to 27 Investment management on pages 30 and 31 Case study on pages 16 and 17 The Group continues to monitor its portfolio mix and asset concentration risk.
Our largest asset is only 7.7% of the total portfolioand 23.9% of the portfolio is held in joint ventures.
