OUR PEOPLE Derwent Londons culture has allowed us to recruit and retain some of the most talented people in the industry.
Length of service number of staff at 31 December 2014 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 Under 3-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20 KATY LEVINE, 3 years years years years years years HEAD OF HUMAN RESOURCES Culture We have a culture of creativity, innovation, collaboration and 114 empowerment which stems from shared values.
These, Employees coupledwith professionalism, integrity and commerciality are keyfactors in our success and define what we stand for and howwe behave with our stakeholders.
This approach has 92% allowed us to recruit and retain some of the most talented people in the industry while providing above average returns Employee retention forour shareholders.
We operate with a flat organisational structure, and are committed to ensuring regular and open internal face-to-face communication, and a consultative 9th leadership style.
This leads to a motivated and highly Overall in the Management engagedworkforce and a high staff retention rate of 92%.
Today awards for Britains We believe that we have a duty totake appropriate measures MostAdmired Companies toidentify and remedy any malpractice within the Group or upfrom 10th place in 2013 affecting us.
We conduct ourbusiness with honesty and integrity but have a whistleblowing policy should the need arise.
Weengender an environment where employees are able to highlight anything thatfalls short of our standards.
As we continue to grow, we adapt to the changing conditions and focus on retaining our culture.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 73 27 23 34 17 4 9 OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED Our structure Diversity There are five core teams within our business that are We are an inclusive employer which allows us to be more supported by anumber of other corporate departments.
creative and provide a balanced environment for our Wedraw skills fromacross the business functions and employees.
The Group has a strong commitment to ourteams work flexibly andcollaboratively to deliver our ensuringequality and diversity.
This structure givesus the ability to handle Our policies, practices and procedures for recruitment, complexchallengesand delivereffectively.
trainingand career opportunities are purely based on merit.
As we continue to grow, we feel that we have a healthy For these reasons, we have a relatively balanced workforce balanceof fresh talent coming into the business with of58% male and 42% female.
Within our senior manager 44%ofour employees joining us over the last fiveyears.
Thisensures that we have continuity whilst also bringing Training and development newideasand skill sets into thebusiness.
We hold six-monthly reviews and regular open discussions We regularly review our organisational structure as tohighlight any training requirements and future potential.
opportunities arise and in 2014 we were able to fill a number Weinvest in supporting employees and managers ofimportant management positions by internal promotions.
bysourcingarange of internal and external personal development opportunities which increase our management capability.
Lastyear 84,000 was invested in staff training.
Wealso ran induction programmes for our joiners and seven internal technical workshops with the aim of continuing our commitment to ensuring employees are aware of the Groups activities.
These have been extremely well received and each workshop was attended by at least 65% of the staff.
Organisational structure Acquisitions investment recycling 6 Executive Asset Committee Development management 3 14 30 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 14 Finance Leasing 19 5 We draw skills from across the business functions Other and our teams work 23 flexibly and collaboratively to deliver ourstrategy.
74 Strategic report Gender split at 31 December 2014 Community and volunteering Last year we launched an employee volunteering programme All employees where every employee has the opportunity to take one day peryear to work with a charity they feel passionate about or get involved in an initiative arising from our Fitzrovia Community Investment Fund.
35% of employees were involved across anumber of projects such as painting a community centre, playing in a charity football tournament or running a careers workshop for young people.
This equated to 225 hours up Number % from 59 hours in 2013.
Male 59 58 We were very pleased when Maruf Miah, our first apprentice, Female 42 42 won the Outstanding Achievement by an Apprentice in the 2015 City Gateway Awards.
In addition, we recruited a second apprentice to work alongside our experienced building managers.
For more informationon our community initiatives please refer to our annual sustainability report.
Reward and recognition We recognise that, to be able to meet our expectations, we need to attract, nurture and retain our talent.
Our approach is toreward people based on individual performance, and contribution to the overall company performance.
During 2014 our mid-year and annual performance appraisal process and Board supporting tools were refreshed to reflect and emphasise our core competencies.
Annual salary increases and bonuses are linked to an overall performance rating which is allocated through our appraisal system.
In addition, we have a range of benefits which can include a non-contributory pension scheme, share options, maternity and paternity provision, life insurance cover, private healthcare, season ticket loans, cycle-to-work scheme Number % and childcare vouchers.
We monitor the industry to ensure we Male 12 92 are competitive and fair.
Female 1 8 Over the last year we have built a relationship with an external occupational health provider to provide information, advice andsupport on general health and wellbeing matters.
This is supplemented by the introduction of an Employee Assistance Cash Plan to help our employees cover the costs of their everyday healthcare needs.
In addition, there is a helpline which offers counselling and advice to employees and their families.
Senior management excluding Directors The strategic report on pages 16 to 75 has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Number % JOHN D. BURNS Male 13 72 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Female 5 28 DAMIAN M. A. WISNIEWSKI FINANCE DIRECTOR 26 FEBRUARY 2015 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 75 Queens, 200 Queensway W2 3 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 78 DIRECTORS REPORT 83 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 92 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 111 RISK COMMITTEE 112 AUDIT COMMITTEE 113 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 116 77
