SUSTAINABILITY As with previous years, we have continued to make strong progress with our sustainability agenda, and weare pleased to say that 2014 has seen us achieve a great deal.
At the start of the year, we introduced our newly revised sustainability policy and strategy, which set out a clear directionand framework.
It introduced four new strategic priorities fundamental to our business, designed to capture therequirements of our six key stakeholder groups occupiers, employees, investors, funders, communities and suppliers.
Moreover we were proud to launch our new look sustainability website pages, giving access to all our key documents and data, as well as providing all the latest news and updates.
Details can be found at www.
In addition to launching our refreshed sustainability agenda, we also set in place our clearest and toughest set of performance targets to date which are aligned to new strategicpriorities.
Our achievements demonstrate the hardworkand commitment from our teams.
This performance has been recognised externally through anumber of awards.
We retained our Green Star status in theGlobal Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB with topquartile performances for the European and International PAUL WILLIAMS portfolio categories.
Likewise, we were recognised in the EPRA EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR sustainability reporting awards, receiving a gold award for the second year in a row for our annual sustainability report.
JOHN DAVIES HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY Our community work is also going from strength to strength with75,000 invested via our Fitzrovia Community Investment Fund during 2014 with seven projects receiving funding.
Intotal145,000 has been invested by the fund to date acrossFitzrovia, with 12 projects having benefitted already.
Yearthree of the fund was launched earlier this year with 65,000 being made available for projects and initiatives in thearea.
Whilst we present a summary of our performance during 2014in the following pages, a comprehensive review is set outinourannual sustainability report, which can be found atwww.
This details all ourwork and achievements during the year, together with ourdatasetsand measurement indicators.
The targets for 2015 are ourclearestand toughest todateandare aligned to newstrategic priorities.
PAUL WILLIAMS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 70 Strategic report Our performance Our performance We have worked hard to embed our four strategic sustainability priorities introduced at the beginning of the year across our business and have made significant progress against our range of targets.
Our 2014 targets have been our most stretching and detailed to % date and presented us with some positive challenges.
Moreover, Achieved 97 they were specifically aligned to our strategic priorities, which allowed us to show a clear link between ourrefreshed strategy Partially achieved 3 and performance.
This enabled us toimprove transparency for Not achieved 0 our stakeholders and create greater engagement across Not applicable 0 business departments.
For 2014 97% of our targets were achieved, a 9% improvement over 2013 when we achieved 88% of our targets.
2014 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Resource efficiency Management Today Britains Most Admired Companies 2014.
1stintheproperty category for the fifth year in succession and 9th in the overall awards.
19% 4thinthe property Community and reduction in carbon generation all scopes  category.
inour like-for-like portfolio EPRA Reporting Awards 2014 Gold Award for our 2013 annual report.
22% Gold Award for our 2013 annual reduction in energy use electricity, gas, oil sustainabilityreport.
andbiomass in our like-for-like portfolio GRESB Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 2014 6% Green Star status retained with top quartile increase in our waste recycling from 56% to 62% performances in theEuropean and .
Communities CDP 2014 Disclosure Rating score of 86.
145,000 BREEAM Awards 2015 awarded to projects to date from the Fitzrovia Morelands rooftop scheme won the office and refurbishment fit-out category.
Community Investment Fund 2,832,500 community contributions via planning Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 71 SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED Our 2015 targets Following a comprehensive review of our performance measures, and drawing on feedback from our stakeholders, we have refocused our approach to setting targets.
They nowinclude a number of new longer-term measures designed to stretch and challenge us further.
In addition, we have created a number of new internal performance measures, based on previous targets, which have been put in place to ensure we continue toperform well.
We intend to report our progress against both these sets of measures in order to give stakeholders a greater perspective andunderstanding of our performance.
We set out below ournew targets for 2015.
Designing and delivering buildings responsibly Aspect Metric Target Future office space Designing new spaces Using lessons learnt and elements from our White Collar Factory concept, developatleast one new development and gain planning permission during 2015 BREEAM EcoHomes Code Rating achieved Achieve a minimum of BREEAM Excellent for all new build projects for Sustainable Homes LEED Achieve a minimum of BREEAM Very Good for all major refurbishment projects Achieve a minimum of LEED Silver for all new build and major  Achieve a minimum of Code Level 4 or EcoHomes Very Good for residentialprojects 2 Energy and carbon Predicting whole All new build and refurbishment projects 5,000m to undertake a design energy building energy use assessment based onCIBSE TM54 Energy performance Minimum of a B rating for new build projects.
Minimum of a C for all major certificates EPCs refurbishments Managing our assets responsibly Aspect Metric Target Building sustainability plans Implementation All managed properties to create a Building Sustainability Plan by the end of 2015 Energy and carbon AMR installation Complete Phase 2 landlord and tenant sub metering of our AMR programme by the SMARTmetering end of2016 and identify participants forPhase 3 tenant managed supplies % reduction Achieve a 5% reduction in landlord influenced energy consumption across our like-forlike managed portfolio by 2017 % recycled Increase recycling rate to 70% for managed waste in all properties for which Derwent London has management control of wasteby 2017 Water Management Maintain portfolio mains water consumption in the like-for-like managed portfolio 3 2 below0.45m m Customers Engagement Produce at least two editions of the tenant sustainability newsletter during 2015 Suppliers Measurement Monitor the progress of sustainability performance measures in the new building engineering maintenancecontracts Creating value in the community Aspect Metric Target Community strategy Strategy development Develop an appropriate community engagement strategy and activity programmein ourTechBelt portfolioby the end of 2015 Community engagement Fitzrovia Community Develop and successfully deliver year 3 of the Fitzrovia Community InvestmentFund Investment Fund delivery Skills Opportunities provided Provide at least two work experience and or mentoring placements Engaging and developing our employees Aspect Metric Target Employee volunteering Engagement Develop and stage a young persons careers workshop Management systems Process efficiency Develop and implement a new electronic absence and holiday tracking system Knowledge Knowledge Undertake at least four technical knowledge share presentations during 2015 dissemination Employee development Engagement Update and refine the Employee Handbook and supporting policies by the end of2015 72 Strategic report
