Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 45 I joined GPE to learn from a successful team which rewarded hard work, commitment anddelivery of results myactualexperience has exceededexpectations.
Miles Wilkinson Project Manager Remuneration Training and development Remuneration plays an important role in retaining and We encourage our people to develop their careers with us, and motivating our people and an annual exercise is undertaken to provide both funding and study leave to enable them to access benchmark salaries against market.
Annual bonuses are used professional development opportunities, including: to reward all employees for achieving and exceeding corporate formal training for professional qualifications: and personal objectives.
A number of Senior Managers also external degrees: and participate in our three year long-term incentive plans, where vocational skills.
the vesting of awards is based on our performance against the Groups strategic KPIs of: Training needs of all employees are formally considered every six months through the appraisal process.
growth in absolute Net Asset Value per share: relative Total Shareholder Return: and During the year, 44,454 was invested in formal employee relative Total Property Return.
andNon-Executive Director training providing 1,923 hours oftraining, averaging three days per employee.
Training See more on our KPIs on pages 20 and 21 programmes included business related topics, sustainability In addition, all employees have the opportunity to join actions, personal skills including basic to advanced excel ourtwofor one Share Incentive Plan with over 72% of training for all employees and facilities management ouremployees currently participating.
This year, as part of our desire to continuously As part of the year-end remuneration process, the Executive improve our relationships, all employees with day-to-day Committee reviews salary benchmarking against market tenant contact in our asset, development and finance teams comparators, individuals performance against personal willundertake customer service training.
objectives and targets, proposed discretionary bonuses and We also encourage our employees to take up roles outside planned long-term incentive plan awards.
The outcome of this oftheir day job which will serve in their development review is then provided to the Remuneration Committee asindividuals.
which considers remuneration levels proposed for all employees and decides upon recommendations made for Senior Manager and Executive Director salary levels, bonus awards for achievement of personal objectives and proposed Long-Term Incentive Plan awards.
Total number of training hours by type 658 660 700 588 600 499 464 500 408 400 283 259 300 248 226 182 156 200 136 113 65 58 100 44 40 0 2012 2013 2014 Governance and human resources development Environmental Estates Management Finance Health & Safety IT 46 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 The Board Executive Directors Martin Scicluna Chairman Toby Courtauld Chief Executive Nick Sanderson Finance Director BCom MA, MRICS BA Hons, ACA Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Chairman of the Nomination Committee Member of the Executive Committee Member of the Executive Committee Chairman of Environmental Policy Committee Date appointed to the Board: October 2008 Date appointed to the Board: July 2011 Date appointed to the Board: April 2002 Independent: Yes Independent: No Independent: No Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Chairman of RSA.
Formerly Non-Executive Skills and experience: Joined the Group in July 2011 as Finance Directorand Chairman of the Audit Committee Joined the Group in April 2002 as Chief Executive.
Formerly Partner, Head of Real Estate ofLloyds Banking Group following 34 years at Previously with the property company MEPC for Corporate Finance Advisory at Deloitte, following Deloitte, including Chairman from 1995 to 2007.
11 years, hegained broadexperience ranging from ten years of real estate investment banking Age 63. portfolio management through tocorporate experience in Europe and Asia with Nomura, transactions and general management as a Lehman Brothers and UBS Investment Bank.
Current external commitments: member of the Group ExecutiveCommittee.
Chairman of RSA plc, Non-Executive Director and Age46.
Chairman of the Audit Committee of WorldPay Current external commitments: Current external commitments: Member of the Finance Committee of the British Member of the British Property Federation Property Federation, Member of the Reporting & Boardand Policy Committee, Member of the Accounting Committee of EPRA Management Board of the Investment Property Forum, Director of The New West End Company, Non-Executive Director of Live-Ex Limited Non-Executive Directors Charles Irby Jonathan Nicholls FCA BA Hons, ACA, FCT Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Senior Independent Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the NominationCommittee Member of the Nomination Committee Date appointed to the Board: July 2009 Date appointed to the Board: April 2004 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Formerly Group Finance Director of Old Mutual plc Formerly Chairman of Aberdeen Asset and Hanson plc, and previously Non-Executive Management and a Non-Executive Director of Director of Man Group Plc.
QBE following 27 years incorporate finance and Age 56. investment banking at ING Barings.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Current external commitments: theAudit Committee of SIG Plc, Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of North Atlantic Smaller Director, Senior Independent Director and Companies Investment Trust Chairman of theAudit Committee of DSSmithPlc Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 47 Neil Thompson Portfolio Director BSc Hons, MRICS Committee memberships: Member of the Executive Committee Chairman of Health and Safety, Environmental and Corporate Responsibility Working Group Date appointed to the Board: August 2006 Independent: No Skills and experience: Joined the Group in December 2002 and was appointed to the Board as Development Director inAugust 2006, becoming Portfolio Director in September 2010.
He has worked for more than 20years in the central London commercial property market.
Formerly with Derwent Valley and Legal and General Investment Management.
Current external commitments: Vice Chairman and Member of theManagement Board of the BritishCouncil ofOffices, Member ofthe Operations Working Group of the Westminster PropertyAssociation Charles Philipps Jonathan Short Elizabeth Holden ACA BSc, ACIB, FRICS MA Hons Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Member of the Audit Committee from 1July 2014 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee from Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee 1July 2014 Member of the Nomination Committee from Member of the Nomination Committee from 1April 2014 1April 2014 Date appointed to the Board: April 2014 Date appointed to the Board: March 2007 Date appointed to the Board: September 2012 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Chief Executive Officer of Amlin plc and formerly Founding Partner of Internos Global Investors Formerly a corporate partner at Slaughter and a director of NatWest Markets.
LLP, apan-European real estate investment Mayspecialising in mergers & acquisitions, Age 55. management business.
PreviouslyCEO of corporate advisory and governance matters.
Current external commitments: Pramericas real estate private equity business Age 46.
Chief Executive Officer of Amlin plc, Trustee of the following 16 years in investment banking at Current external commitments: Outward Bound Trust and Director of Outward Lazard, Barings and SG Warburg.
Formerly a Non-Executive Director of Centra Living Bound Oman UK Non-Executive Director of Big Yellow Group plc.
Current external commitments: Executive Chairman of Internos Global Investors LLP, Independent Director to the Grosvenor Shopping Centre Fund, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee of Gatehouse Bank 48 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Senior management team Ben Chambers Hugh Morgan James Mitchell Investment Director Head of Investment Management Head of Asset Management BSc, MRICS BSc Hons, MRICS MA, MRICS Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Joined the Group as Investment Manager in Joined the Group in September 2007 as Investment Joined the Group in November 2003 as August 2002.
Appointed Investment Director Manager and appointed Head of Investment AssetManager and appointed Head of Asset in2009.
Formerly a Partner at Fineman Ross.
Formerly a Director with Management in 2005.
Formerly an Associate Previously with Nelson Bakewell and Gooch Savills and previously with Nelson Bakewell.
withCushman & Wakefield, and previously &Wagstaff.
withMEPC and Weatherall, Smith & Green.
Experience and responsibilities: Experience and responsibilities: Responsible for generating and executing asset Experience and responsibilities: Responsible for the Investment management team strategies for existing assets within the Groups Responsible for the net income return of the looking at both sales and acquisitions, sourcing portfolio including hold sell decisions.
new acquisitions and maximising opportunities A member of the GHS Limited Partnership from within the Groups investment portfolio.
A director of The Great Victoria Partnership, TheGreat Wigmore Partnership and The Great Ropemaker Partnership.
Marc Wilder Janine Cole Head of Leasing Head of Sustainability BSc Hons, MRICS MIOSH, AIEMA Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in June 2005 as Leasing Manager Joined the Group in November 1998 as Health and appointed Head of Leasing in 2009.
Promoted to Safety, Head of Leasing at Benchmark plc, and previously Healthand Environmental Manager in 2002 with Threadneedle Asset Management and andappointed Head of Sustainability in 2011.
Formerly a Professional Services Administrator with National Britannia.
Experience and responsibilities: Responsible for leasing across the Groups Experience and responsibilities: investment portfolio and development Responsible for environment and health and safety programme.
A member of the British Property Federation Sustainability Committee.
