OUR PEOPLE PREPARING FOR GROWTH 2014 was a year in which we progressed our people agenda significantly.
Embedding our values, organisational change and resourcing were key areas of focus.
In addition, our actions to improve management capability and develop talent will strengthen the business in the years ahead.
Positive steps were taken to improve collaboration and working practices throughout the organisation and our diversity and inclusion agenda was progressed.
LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT TALENT MANAGEMENT AND CAPABILITY RESOURCING During 2014 we focused on improving management capability The Company was successful in retaining and developing talent within the business.
whilst attracting high-calibre individuals to the business in 2014.
For the first time, we developed a clear and concise competence Voluntary staff turnover across the UK and France remained low at model for those who manage teams of people.
The Management 10.3% despite improved labour market conditions.
Framework, developed by a representative group of managers Our established approach to performance management, including the from across the organisation, was launched in spring 2014. bi-annual assessment of employees potential as well as performance, The Management Framework clearly defines the capabilities contributed towards a high number of promotions during the year: and skills we want to see from our management teams.
13 in the UK and six in France.
Furthermore, we redesigned our comprehensive recruitment Primarily driven by the progression of the Companys development processes to incorporate the new Management Framework and our projects and the Reading office move, the need for external management assessment centres in the UK now include a greater recruitment was high and 96 new people joined Hammerson during focus on management capability than ever before.
A number of restructuring initiatives resulted The Management Framework also gave us the benchmark against in 14 employees leaving the business during the year.
which to design a completely new Management Development In order to improve our Company-wide approach to talent Programme.
Aimed at existing and potential managers, the management and succession planning we objectively evaluated the Programme was launched to much acclaim in the autumn and will majority of UK and France roles during the course of the year.
Using form the foundation of our management development.
With this the established Hay Group evaluation methodology, we developed in mind, a comprehensive schedule has been planned for 2015. the Hammerson Career Framework.
ORGANISATIONAL DESIGN Going forward we will use the Career Framework to help identify AND STRUCTURE career paths for high-potential employees and our aspiration is for Our commitment to operate the most effective organisational this to support the mobility of our workforce across the UK and structures and to maximise the contribution of our people through France.
Furthermore, we will use the Career Framework to enhance collaborative working continued throughout 2014. our succession planning practices within the organisation, particularly for senior management and business-critical roles.
This was best evidenced by the opening of our new Reading office, Aquis House, where our integrated UK Finance team, the recently restructured Group IT Infrastructure function, HR administration and KEY FACTS AT A GLANCE a number of UK shopping centre support roles are based.
As a result of this move, 25 employees will be leaving the business in 2015.
NEW HIRES 445 96 Recent changes to our Asset Management, Leasing, Development HEADCOUNT and Property Management functions designed, in part, to allow for greater scalability enabled us to integrate new employees easily VOLUNTARY % into these teams during the course of the year.
334 STAFF TURNOVER 10.3 IN THE UK Our group-wide Marketing function, restructured in 2013 to improve efficiency and better leverage the expertise of our UK and France INTERNAL MOVES teams, saw significant economies of scale whilst delivering a broad 111 & PROMOTIONS 35 range of marketing activity across our portfolio.
32 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT THE SURVEYORS OF THE FUTURE APPLICATIONS TO OUR UK GRADUATE PROGRAMME DURING 2014, RESULTING IN TWO APPOINTMENTS 103 The Hammerson Graduate Programme was launched in 2011 and our first graduate surveyors joined the Company in the autumn of that year.
Introduced with the purpose of developing our own surveyors for the future, the programme has been designed to give graduates experience in asset management, leasing, development and investment whilst working towards chartered status with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
2014 was a significant year with both our first recruits Shelley Taylor and Robert van Vliet gaining their RICS accreditation and subsequently moving into asset management roles within the organisation.
With further graduates already on the programme and more set to join the Company in 2015, we are well placed to nurture our own talent in the future.
I passed my APC Assessment of Professional Competence in April 2014, having successfully completed five six-monthly rotations across key areas of the business as part of the graduate development programme.
The high quality of training and flexibility offered by the programme provided me with the confidence and ability to pass my APC and to accept an asset management position within the shopping centre portfolio.
I am enthusiastic about the future success of the graduate development programme and excited SHELLEY TAYLOR about opportunities for my career with Hammerson.
com 33 OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED Within our shopping centres there were numerous examples of CULTURE AND VALUES values-driven activities with our participation at Highcross in Retail 2014 was a year in which our values Ambition, Responsibility, Path being of particular note.
This new initiative, launched by the BCSC Collaboration and Respect started to become embedded within Educational Trust and the National Skills Academy for Retail, aims to the business and have a real impact on the way we work.
attract young people into the property and retail sectors and support Good internal communication is important to us and in 2014 an their development through its high-quality apprenticeship programme.
increasingly collaborative approach was enhanced through regular staff briefings and the introduction of a single Intranet for the entire A YEAR IN SHOPPING CENTRES organisation.
As a matter of course, the Company regularly consults In France, the opening of Les Terrasses du Port was certainly the with its employees on a wide range of topics such as changes highlight but, in addition, the decision to in-source shopping centre to reward, our approach to internal communications and flexible management services will enable us to maximise performance working.
Internal updates on business news and performance and improve synergies across the portfolio in the years ahead.
take place on a regular basis.
In the UK, WestQuay, Highcross and The Oracle maintained their Our staff conference, held at Les Terrasses du Port, was themed Investors in People accreditations and the taking over of the asset around the values with awards given to those employees who management at Cabot Circus resulted in 11 new employees joining had demonstrated them to best effect.
Growth in our Property Management, Technical Services and Car Parking teams enabled us to deliver an increasing number of cross-portfolio solutions, all with the aim of improving performance and standards in all our shopping centres.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT The 2014 Community Day in the UK was our sixth to date and was Samaritans and Elifar.
Employees are also encouraged to support met with the usual enthusiasm from head office and shopping centre other charities through our match funding programme.
214 employees participated in 15 events ranging from the 18,989 was raised by employees for 22 charities, which was Hammerson Games with 220 young people from Whitmore, Sebright, supplemented by 6,970 in company contributions.
Daubenay and Burbage Primary Schools to painting, weeding and In May six employees ventured to Haiti for two weeks to show their gardening at the Coram headquarters in central London.
This once support for the Haiti Hospital Appeal.
With nearly 11,500 raised our again proved a valuable team building event, providing an opportunity team were able to see first-hand how far that money goes.
With some for employees across the business to work together.
of the funds raised, the Appeal was able to buy nearly 500 banana Every two years employees select two charity partners with whom tree roots which our team loaded, unloaded and planted.
The selected charities receive a cash donation and, more support the appeal, we sent a container funded by the Guernsey importantly, an opportunity to develop a relationship with the Overseas Aid Commission, loaded up with solar panels and batteries business.
Employees are incredibly supportive of this process and for a backup system, clothes donated by Primark and medical highly engaged with the charities selected, which for 2014 2016 are equipment from the Swiss Paraplegic Foundation.
1412 VOLUNTEERING DAYS 34 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT The Company welcomes and fully considers all suitable applications DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION for employment, irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, age, During 2014 the Company enhanced a number of business practices sexual orientation or disability.
All employees are eligible to participate which support our objective of promoting diversity within the in career development and promotion opportunities.
In addition, we advanced a number of new initiatives exists for employees who become disabled to continue in their as well as introducing clearly stated targets for the first time.
employment or to be retrained for other suitable roles.
In the summer our Group Executive Committee attended a workshop on unconscious bias.
Delivered by Brook Graham, our diversity and inclusion advisors, the session was designed to broaden awareness of diversity in the workplace and to foster debate about actions to take DIVERSITY in order to create a more diverse workforce.
Our UK and France senior as at 31 Dec 2014 Chart Fig 10 management teams will attend similar workshops during 2015.
All employees We continue to place particular emphasis on gender diversity when Male 45% recruiting.
Of the 96 new employees recruited in 2014, 52 were female 54% with many of these in senior professional roles.
Seven of our 244 18 shopping centre General Managers are female.
201 Female 55% Our 2014 graduate intake was once again split 50 50 by gender, as it has been since the programmes inception in 2011.
The Company continued to support a range of activities focused on broadening awareness of the property industry, particularly Chart Fig 11 Chart Fig 12 amongst under-represented groups in society.
Specific actions taken Senior management Board during 2014 included the ongoing sponsorship of the Pathways to Property scheme, participation in the Capital South mentoring 2 scheme in Croydon, sponsorship and participation of Retail Path and 10 the promotion of Inspiring the Future events across the business.
The latter part of 2014 saw us introduce a number of objectives, 24 8 against which we will measure our progress.
Specifically, these are: That women will hold a minimum of 30% of the senior management roles throughout the organisation.
Chart Fig 13 Chart Fig 14 Shopping Centre Graduates That women are represented in no less than 30% of roles Managers identified in the senior management succession plan.
That the gender gap for employee engagement, as measured by our bi-annual employee survey, is no greater than 5%.
7 The Boards stated aim is to maintain 20% female representation 2 2 at Board level whenever practicable.
