14 140 0 L La and nd Se Sec cur uri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 sustainability and responsibility Performance against key targets 2014 to achieve high standards in sustainability and responsibility we report annually against a number of targets.
monitoring our performance in this way means we continue to make incremental progress as well as take bigger, more transformational steps.
Once a target is achieved, and the cR committee perceive the behaviours required to maintain performance are embedded through the business, it moves to a business as usual watch list.
We report against that list by exception.
the performance against our key targets is detailed below: a full list can be found in our cR Report www.
Performance against key targets 2014 continued table 90 Long-term target Interim measure Performance Sustainable business To create a culture at Land Securities that values and actively Interim measure Interim achieved, on track for long-term promotes difference, by March 2018.
Design and introduce diversity training to all Hiring Managers, by March 2014.
Maintain or increase 60% employee volunteering rate for half day or Missed more per year but increase the proportion of those who provide 57% employees volunteered this year.
32% of skilled or professional advice or mentoring to 42% of the 60%, by volunteering activity can be classified as professional.
90% of our surveyed investor and analyst audience and 90% of our Missed surveyed SRI specialists to believe our CR strategy is clear and Responses in the latest survey are mixed.
The perceived to be embedded in the way we do business, by March 2014. majority recognise the important of CR but some investors still question its value.
Better environments Reduce normalised average CO e emissions from the like for like Interim measure Partially achieved, on track for long term 2 managed portfolio by 15% by 2020 compared to 2010 11 baseline.
5% reduction in offices, shopping centres Overall portfolio shows 16% reduction but emissions and retail parks.
London offices: increased by 7% Shopping centres: reduced by 33% Retail parks: reduced by 8% Reduce normalised water consumption from the like-for-like Missed managed portfolio by 10% by 2016 compared to 2010 11 baseline.
Overall portfolio shows 9% increase but consumption by portfolio differs.
London offices: increased by 15% Shopping centres: increased by 7% Retail parks: decreased by 78% To increase to 90% the amount of waste diverted from landfill and Interim measure Achieved one year ahead of target recycle at least 70% by weight as an average across all shopping Portfolio average to maintain 90% 98% diverted centres by March 2015. landfill avoidance figure with at least 72% recycled 69% being reused or recycled by March 2014.
London Portfolio recycling rates achieve 100% diverted from Partially achieved landfill and 70% reused or recycled.
We believed our high recycling rate to be business as usual performance.
However we report by exception as our recycling rates have decreased significantly.
We believe this is due to more accurate measurement.
100% diverted 57% recycled All new developments and major refurbishments to achieve a Achieved Very Good rating under BREEAM 2011 or BREEAM Non-Domestic Refurbishment when published, with an aspiration for Excellent where reasonably practicable.
Residential schemes to achieve Code for Sustainable Homes Level 4 or Very Good under EcoHomes Scotland or BREEAM Domestic Refurbishment where applicable.
Achieved No incidents recorded Working towards zero, remain below industry benchmarks for Achieved reportable incidents for health and safety purposes on development Well below industry benchmark for reportable sites and continue to reduce occurrence of incidents within our incidences.
Our incident rate: 139.6 per 100,000 workers.
stRateGic RePORt GOVeRnance financial statements AdditionAl informAtion Additional information L La an nd S d Se ec cu ur ri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 14 141 1 Performance against key targets 2014 continued table 90 Long-term target Interim measure Performance Stronger communities Report annually against social, economic and environmental metrics Partially achieved to all regional Local Authorities and London Boroughs where we have We do report annually to local authorities, but not in significant shopping centre or development presence by March 2014. a systematic, consistent way.
The launch of our Impact Reporting programme will ensure reports are consistent moving forward.
Deliver the London Employment Strategy across the development Achieved pipeline and introduce to some managed portfolio service partners by 14 existing, three new and five London Portfolio March 2014.
APSIRE partners are now on board.
Establish appropriate grant-giving funds in all communities where we London: To increase external donor Achieved have a significant development or shopping centre presence based contributions to Westminster Fund every Now business as usual.
on giving thresholds set against centre size and development year to 2014. construction value.
Retail: A good number of schemes in place.
Further review needed to determine potential and limitations of scheme.
Additional performance highlights 2014 throughout this report you will have discovered how our responsible approach is simply part of the way we do business.
Our impact on the environment, and the way people interact with that environment, is considered at all stages of our property investment.
and our responsibility for the socio-economic fabric of the areas in which we operate is fundamental to us being successful.
there are some additional disclosures we have not made throughout the body of this report, all of which support our core business and help us to become developer, partner and employer of choice.
Additional performance highlights 2014 table 91 Activity Detail Performance Benchmarking Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Every year we work with CDP to disclose our greenhouse 2013: disclosure 88 score B gas emissions.
We were pleased to retain our position in 2012: disclosure 92 score B the Leadership Index this year.
2011: disclosure 60 score D Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB is a global, industry driven organisation that 2013: score 67% GRESB assesses the sustainability performance of real estate 2012: score 68% portfolios.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI DJSI assesses the long term social, environmental and We continue to retain our established position in economic impact of companies.
Only those that lead the DJSI their industries are included in the index.
2013: score 72 2012: score 70 2011: score 72 FTSE4Good The FTSE4Good Index identifies companies that meet We continue to retain our established position in the globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
London Benchmarking Group LBG We report the volume and value of our community and 3.0m equivalent value of time, promotion and cash charitable contribution every year.
investment 8,080 hours spent by our employees on volunteering Community National Charity Partnership All our shopping centres have partnered with The MS 216,000 funds raised during the two-year relationship Society during the past two years.
Next year, our national partner is Mencap.
Local Charity Partnerships Shopping centres are required to have a local charity 250,000 has been raised across 19 shopping centres partnership too.
These partnerships typically run for this year, for their local charity partners.
Education Each of our shopping centres and large scale The Department for Education has approved a new developments have at least one educational University Technical College for Westminster this year partnership.
focusing on transport and construction engineering.
This was the result of collaboration between the Sir Simon Milton Foundation and other employer partners.
