44 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility WORKING RESPONSIBLY ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO We have continued to support and invest in local communities where we have a presence.
In 2014, SEGRO donated over 1.6 million to goodcauses through money, time, land and business space.
We also increased our commitment to LandAid during the Introduction year.
LandAid is the charity of the UK property industry At SEGRO, corporate social responsibility is fully integrated and is committed to improving the lives of young people into all aspects of our operations.
In 2014, we continued in the UK who have been disadvantaged due to their our focus on sustainability and we have been able to economic or social circumstances.
demonstrate significant progress towards achieving thetargets we set out in our SEGRO 2020 strategy Additionally, we undertook a range of activities to engage seepage47.
with other stakeholders in our business, namely our employees, our investors, our customers and our suppliers, We have continued to support and invest in local to keep them informed about our business activities and communities where we have a presence.
In addition to to understand how we can better meet their expectations the economic activity taking place in our buildings, this of us.
support can take the form of monetary donations to localcharities, the time and expertise of our employees tolocal voluntary organisations or through the donation ofbusiness space.
In 2014, SEGRO donated over ANDY GULLIFORD 1.6 million to good causes in this manner.
Chief Operating Officer We also include transport emissions from business Mandatory greenhouse gas GHG emissions travel arising from our fleet vehicles, both owned and statement leased, as well as emissions from space occupied directly This is the second year we are reporting our Greenhouse bySEGRO personnel.
Gas Emissions in our Annual Report.
SEGRO has, however, been managing its energy intensity previously Our emissions are set out in the table opposite.
through its sustainability reporting which is available to They arise principally through the combustion of view at www.
gas for heating, fuel for transport together, scope 1 emissions and the purchase of electricity scope 2 emissions.
Consumption data has been collected from Methodology third party energy providers and the usage has been In order to determine the emissions that we are converted into a carbon dioxide equivalent using the responsible for, we have used the GHG Protocol UK Governments Conversion Factors for Company Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard as of Reporting 2014.
Further details of these can be found 31 12 14 and have applied the Operational Control on http: www.
As this is the second year of Mandatory Greenhouse Gas This means that we have included all emissions arising Emissions reporting, we have included the 2013 data from our assets under management, excluding any for comparison.
The 2013 figures have been restated to emissions arising from those parts of the portfolio that reflect more accurate energy data for the 2013 reporting are the responsibility of our tenants.
We have called this period, as well as correcting some inaccurate data points.
responsible space and have used this term when we are For more information on how the greenhouse gas figures reporting our GHG emissions as well as when we are are calculated, including the estimation methodology and reporting the progress we have made with our SEGRO data exclusions, please refer to our online data pack at 2020 sustainability targets.
com sustainability SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45 Table of emissions GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS DATA IN TONNES OF CO2e EMISSIONS FROM: 2014 2013 Scope 1 emissions combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 8,848 13,308 Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling 27,860 28,571 Total Carbon Footprint tonnes of CO2e 36,708 41,879 SEGROS CHOSEN INTENSITY MEASUREMENT: 2 Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes of CO e per m of responsible space 0.016 0.018 2 2 2 Coverage 2,335,626m 2,348,011m Table of emissions by region REGION EMISSIONS SOURCE 2014 EMISSIONS 2013 EMISSIONS TONNES OF CO2e TONNES OF CO2e UK Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 1,734 3,109 UK purchased Electricity, steam, heat and cooling 4,931 6,997 Continental Europe Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 7,114 10,199 Continental Europe purchased Electricity, steam, heat and cooling 22,929 21,574 36,708 41,879 Commentary Collecting environmental performance data across our The drop in SEGROs scope 1 emissions between 2013 UK and European portfolio remains challenging and we and 2014 can be largely attributed to property disposals, continue to work hard on improving our data collection including several large gas consumers i. e. Pegasus Park, methodologies and data coverage.
However, we do Sphere Business Park, Winnersh Triangle, Frankfurt recognise that our environmental data is not perfect and Hanauer Landstrae.
The sale of these assets has also in some instances we have had to exclude or estimate contributed to the slight decrease in scope 2 emissions missing data.
These challenges are not uncommon in2014 compared to 2013. across the property sector and we continue to work on The repositioning of SEGROs portfolio has also affected implementing new processes and training our employees its reported emissions intensity, although the number to ensure that the data quality of our environmental ofproperties included in the metric has decreased from reporting improves year-on-year.
793 to 687 a 13 per cent decrease, the floor area of our responsible space has only decreased slightly from 2 2 2,348,011m to 2,335,626m a 0.5 per cent decrease.
46 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility WORKING RESPONSIBLY ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO CONTINUED SEGRO 2020 Recap In 2013, we introduced our new sustainability strategy, SEGRO 2020.
We have built on the solid foundation set in 2013 through our commitment to embed the strategy across the Group.
Our SEGRO 2020 targets focus on building design, refurbishments, energy and water efficiency and obtaining building certifications that support our sustainable approach.
It links directly to our strategic priority of driving operational performance by delivering excellent customer service and optimising performance of our assets through greater customer focus, knowledge sharing, efficiency improvements and cost reductions.
Our new sustainability strategy has required us to undertake a number of projects which allow us to report and improve our performance against our long-term goals.
We have continued to embed our sustainability toolkits that were introduced in 2013 into our development and refurbishment projects, improving reporting RENEWABLE consistency and coverage whilst reducing the time requirement for our teams.
ENERGY We have seen particular success in our waste management figures for 2014.
Our reuse and recycling rates for construction and demolition CASE STUDY waste were 87%, whilst excavation waste achieved a reuse or recycling rate of 92%.
All three waste streams have therefore achieved target in 2014.
We have also added a further 11 BREEAM Very Good In 2013, we introduced a renewable energy project or equivalent certified buildings through our development and fund to expand the renewable energy offering across refurbishment programme.
We fund the projects on the basis that SEGRO owns the energy generated and provides it One area of focus for us in 2015 is to improve our utility data coverage.
to the customer at below market rate, improving the During 2014, we committed to the roll out of a group-wide energy environmental performance of the building and reducing bureau service by mid-2015, which will provide us with support in operating costs for our customer.
how we manage utility data across the portfolio.
It has been used successfully in the UK since 2011.
As part of the 2,900 sq m speculative development at Fairlie Road on the Slough Trading Estate, we installed The introduction of this service will help us maintain our EPRA Gold a 130 kWp solar photovoltaic array.
One of our longest reporting disclosure status which we achieved for the second year serving customers, All Print, moved into the building in running in 2014. late 2014 and will achieve cost savings of around 10,000 We are committed to delivering, reviewing and improving per year, or around 3.50 per sq m, as a result of the SEGRO 2020 to ensure we are extracting best value from our renewable energy measures incorporated in the building.
Close working relationships between the SEGRO The progress we have made in 2014 against our SEGRO 2020 development and sustainability teams, the main contractor, targets is shown in the table opposite and a more detailed review of our PV consultant and All Print helped to deliver the project performance is available to view on www.
successfully, with the following results: Approximately 115,000 kWh of electricity generated per year Saving 56 tonnes of CO per year 2 10k annual cost saving for the Occupier Kevin Wallace, Managing Director of All Print, said: The solar PV system has helped us reduce our carbon footprint and reduce energy costs by around 60%.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47 DRIVING OUR OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE 2014 SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE AGAINST SEGRO 2020 Change 2020 GOAL QUALIFYING CRITERIA 2014 PERFORMANCE since 2013 2015 ACTIONS OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE By 2020, we will reuse or recycle All new developments and In 2014, we reused or recycled 87 per cent of We will improve reporting coverage 80 per cent of construction and refurbishments where a both our construction 2013: 68 per cent and and performance across our demolition waste and 60 per significant amount of waste demolition 2013: 60 per cent waste and 92 per geographies and widen the scope cent of excavation waste.
cent of our excavation waste 2013: 33 per cent.
to include morerefurbishment We were able to report on 18 out of 24 projects.
2 By 2020, we will reduce energy Space where SEGRO purchases Our energy intensity was 73.6 kWh m In 2015, we will roll out the 2 intensity for SEGRO responsible energy for example, common year during 2014 2012: 79.4 kWh m year: thirdparty management of our 2 space by 40 per cent against our parts, SEGRO occupancy, vacant 2013:73.0 kWh m year.
This equates to a utility data to all of our Business 2012 baseline.
2012 and 2013 space and where we re-charge 7.3per cent decrease against the 2012 baseline.
Units to further improve our data has been re-stated to reflect energy costs to the customer, Energy intensity for space occupied by SEGRO data coverage.
the full portfolio at year-end.
where there is a meter and for personnel improved by 11 per cent.
which we have a full year of data.
3 2 By 2020, we will reduce water Space where SEGRO purchases Our water intensity was 31 m m year In 2015, we will roll out the 3 2 intensity for SEGRO responsible energy for example, common during2014 2012: 52 m m year: thirdparty management of our 3 2 space by 20 per cent against our parts, SEGRO occupancy, vacant 2013: 36m m year.
This equates to utility data to all of our Business 2012 baseline.
2012 and 2013 space and where we re-charge a41 per cent decrease overall.
Units to further improve our data has been re-stated to reflect water costs to the customer, data coverage.
where there is a meter and for which we have a full year of data.
ASSET DESIGN AND REFURBISHMENT By 2020, we will install water All new developments and The flow rate of our installed water fixtures We will continue to share best efficient technology in all our refurbishments where elements taps, WCs, showers etc.
was 27 per cent better practice across our development new buildings and qualifying of the building which affect water than our standard water efficiency specification and refurbishment teams to identify major refurbishments, and efficiency are included in the equivalent to a BREEAM Pass specification specifications and technologies rainwater harvesting grey water project scope.
across 28 qualifying development and which can be used across the group recycling where viable.
to make progress with this goal.
By 2020, all new buildings and All new developments and Our overall weighted performance for energy We will continue to share best qualifying major refurbishments refurbishments where elements efficient design was on average 32 per cent better practice across our development will be at least 40 per cent more of the building which affect than local base build standard in 2009.
This was and refurbishment teams to identify energy efficient than our typical energy efficiency building fabric achieved through a 28 per cent improvement in specifications and technologies 2009 buildings in each country.
or lighting are included in the building fabric efficiency across our development which can be used across the group project scope.
projects, and a 47 per cent improvement across our to make progress with this goal.
Our lighting specifications were, on average, 78 per cent better than our standard specification of 45 lumens Watt.
We reported data for 22 developments and nine refurbishments.
By 2020, all new buildings and All new developments over In 2014, 11 out of 23 development and major In 2015, we have committed to qualifying major refurbishment 10,000 sq m and refurbishments refurbishment projects, including Germany obtaining BREEAM certification projects will be certified to where BREEAM or equivalent 4, UK 6 and Italy 1 achieved BREEAM for the first time at one of our be BREEAM Very Good or certification is technically possible VeryGood or Excellent, DGNB Silver or Polish developments.
We will equivalent in the recognised and commercially viable.
continue with progress in those environmental certification for countries where certifications that region LEED, DGNB, HQE.
are regularly achieved, and will investigate the feasibility of gaining refurbishment certifications.
By 2020, all new buildings will All new developments and 16 out of 22 development projects requiring an Some countries we operate in do be EPC or equivalent B rated, refurbishments where the EPC achieved a rating of A or B. not require an EPC at the project or C rated for qualifying major projectworks require a new completion stage, and instead refurbishments.
EPCto be obtained and there We analysed 30 out of 33 refurbishment projects require an In use EPC certificate.
in 2014 which impacted the EPC rating.
57 per In 2015, we will work to investigate cent of the projects achieved EPC ratings of B or ways to integrate these EPCs, and C with 93 per cent achieving D or better.
focus on finding cost effective ways to achieve C ratings or above for more of our refurbishments.
RENEWABLE ENERGY We will seek to increase our Projects include direct SEGRO During 2014, 1,268 MWh of new renewable In 2015, we have set aside specific renewable energy generating investment as well as support energy generation capability was added to budgets across the Group to fund capacity across the Group.
for our customers who wish to theportfolio through the installation of solar investment in SEGRO-owned undertake renewable energy photovoltaic panels across five developments.
These projects are wholly owned by SEGRO and We will also continue to work created 1,233 kWp of new installed capacity.
The with our customers to support total renewable energy generation capability their renewable energy projects across the portfolio now stands at 8,319 MWh, where possible.
including third party owned systems.
This is an increase of 10 per cent on 2013.
We have reported against five new and 30 existing projects.
KEY: We have made progress with the goal in line with internal expectations Some limited progress has been made to support this goal, and we will prioritise performance improvement in 2015 48 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility WORKING RESPONSIBLY ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO CONTINUED Communities and Charity LandAid Supporting communities in which we operate remains an SEGRO is a long-time supporter and partner of LandAid, integral part of our operations.
In 2014, SEGRO invested the charity of the UK property industry.
Its aim is to a total of 1.68m in good causes through money, time, improve the lives of children and young people who land and business space.
A new Charity Committee was experience disadvantage due to their economic or social created during 2014, whose aim is to both set the Groups circumstances.
We are committed to providing 120,000 charity and community engagement strategy and its over three years 2014-2016.
Our approach to this charity Charity Policy as well as to oversee their implementation.
is not solely focussed on providing monetary assistance, SEGRO also offers pro bono work.
We work closely with our stakeholders in the communities where we have a presence.
This way we ensure that the Andy Gulliford, our Chief Operating Officer, also continues local communities understand why we are undertaking to be a member of the Land Aid Fundraising Committee.
specific commercial projects and the benefits they will Furthermore, during 2014, SEGRO employees supported bring to their local area.
We actively listen to their views LandAid with a variety of fund raising activities such as a on our plans and seek to address concerns they may have.
golf day, cake bakes, a sailing day and the Industrial Agents In the UK, for example, we have built strong relationships Cycle Challenge.
These raised a further 28,775 on top of with communities in Hillingdon, Hounslow, Ealing, Slough, our commitment.
To see more case studies on our community and charities activities throughout 2014, please see the full CSR report at 178,188 1,453,331 53,150 www.
DONATIONS ASSISTANCE EMPLOYEE IN KIND VOLUNTEERING LOCAL SCHOOL FUNDING CASE STUDY During 2014, SEGRO has continued to work closely alongside its partners in the local council to identify ways that we can positively impact the local community and help meet some of their needs.
For the launch of Origin, SEGROs flagship development in Park Royal, local primary school children were challenged to write a poem on their vision of Brent in 2034.
Each of the schools entering received a share of 6,000 that could be spent on projects that would improve the school.
The poems were sealed in a time capsule and buried on the Origin site.
Over 130 poems were submitted from Swaminarayan School, Mitchell Brook Primary School, Brentfield Primary School, OurLadyof Lourdes School and Stonebridge Primary School.
Winning team from Swaminarayan school SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 SLOUGH ASPIRE FIRST ANNIVERSARY CASE STUDY 2014 marked the first anniversary of Slough Aspire, the dedicated skills and training facility located on the Slough Trading Estate.
Developed by SEGRO, Slough Aspire has been delivered in Since its launch the centre has: partnership with a number of locally-based businesses and Provided training and development programmes for more than organisations including Mars, Lonza, the Federation of Small 3,000 people and businesses Businesses, East Berkshire College and Slough Borough Council.
Worked with 133 organisations in the public, private and not for Designed as the first port of call for training and learning needs profit sectors inthe area, Slough Aspire delivers a range of events and courses forstudents, businesses and the local community.
It brings Conducted 43 events, including training, networking, careers students, local residents and businesses together for learning and and information sharing events networking opportunities.
Ten new companies have registered with Slough Aspire over Over the past year the centre has worked with 2,521 students thepast 12 months as a result of networking events tohelp them become job-ready.
It has also enhanced the Fiona Jones, Slough Aspire Manager, said: skill-set of 436 local residents and delivered dedicated training for 141businesses and their employees.
It has been a really positive year for Slough Aspire, from thelaunch of our innovative training and events venue, the The centre is open to companies, schools and local residents SloughAspire Centre, to our construction pathway programme, andplays a vital role in strengthening links between students, through to collaboration with local companies such as Mars on thecommunity and local businesses.
50 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility WORKING RESPONSIBLY ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO CONTINUED SEGRO signed up to the Department of Healths Public Health and safety Health Responsibility Deal for the Construction and Civil Health and safety is very important to SEGRO and Engineering Industries in October 2013.
Since then, remains a top priority for us, we take our responsibilities to SEGRO has been working to deliver the aims of this our employees, customers, suppliers and visitors seriously.
pledge through our elected SEQOHS Safe Effective Our continuing aim is to embed health and safety within Quality Occupational Health Service provider to develop the culture of all employees, as well as through influencing a programme to provide all employees with access to our supply chain.
We do this by managing risks, tighter Occupational Health Services to reduce the occurrences of controls, training and raising awareness.
SEGRO has work related ill-health and ensuring that those with health strong health and safety management procedures problems do not place themselves or others at risk.
in operation across the Group.
Monthly reporting is SEGRO attained a RoSPA Gold Award for the second provided to the Chief Operating Officer, Operations year running demonstrating both our commitment and and Executive Committees and the Board on health and practical application of good health and safety procedures safety performance.
across all our business operations.
These awards are In 2014, with SEGROs increased construction activities, based upon specified occupational health and safety a clear focus was made to further engage and develop performance criteria.
Gold is the top achievement award.
relationships with our supply chain to ensure health and In 2014, our Accident Frequency Rate for SEGRO safety remains a top priority.
This has involved a series of employees remained at zero 2012 and 2013 interactive workshops involving our internal teams and zero.
There were no health and safety prosecutions, external suppliers across the Group.
enforcement actions or fatalities in 2014.
A key risk is working at height in both construction and maintenance activities.
A bespoke training course was developed and delivered to operational employees in the UK, and will be delivered across Europe in 2015.
SEGRO assisted the Health & Safety Executive HSE in completing a very successful Estates Excellence initiative at Park Royal, West London involving over 1,000 businesses.
SEGRO arranged the use of one of its buildings to host free health and safety training to more than 130 people.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 Our employees One SEGRO working together to deliver a greatyear 2014 has been a very successful year for our employees.
This was the third year of the strategic programme we launched in November 2011 and a year when all of our hard work started to come to fruition.
Across all of our teams and disciplines, from our leasing, asset, development and investment managers through to all of our support teams, everyone has worked together as One SEGRO to deliver the vision we set out to achieve in 2011.
We fundamentally believe that good communication, Employee awards ceremony One SEGRO across multiple channels, is central to creating our One SEGRO approach which we work hard to achieve through over a number of years through their length of service.
quarterly all employee webinars led by the Executive These ranged from 23 individuals achieving five years Directors, monthly team briefings led by Heads of withSEGRO, nine achieving 10 years of service, and a Function, an all employee newsletter produced at a very special mention for David Drummond, our longest Group level but covering both group messages and local serving employee, who achieved 30 years service in 2014. stories and our all employee conference which was held in the UK at the end of December.
At the conference At the end of 2014, we repeated our independent all we took the opportunity to recognise and celebrate all employee survey Your Say and achieved a very healthy of the great work achieved by our employees during the 86 per cent response rate.
We are delighted to report that course of 2014 through our SEGRO award ceremony.
our overall Employee Engagement score has increased by In 2014, more than 130 high quality nominations were 10 percentage points since our last survey from received by the judging panel for consideration for one 79 per cent 2012 to 89 per cent, placing us in the upper of our 12 SEGRO awards, ranging from Best Customer quartile of top-performing companies for employee Service Initiative to Outstanding Team Contribution to engagement when externally benchmarked.
we will communicate the detailed results of the survey to all employees and will be inviting them to participate As well as recognising great team and individual in action-planning workshops, led by our Leadership achievements, we also celebrated those individuals Team, on the areas where we know we can make who have demonstrated their commitment to SEGRO some improvements.
LIZ REILLY Group HR Director Everyone has worked together as One SEGRO to deliver the vision we set out to achieve in 2011 52 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility WORKING RESPONSIBLY ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO CONTINUED Continuing to add to our bench strength Growing our own talent During 2014, we continued to prioritise internal External talent development moves and promotions from within the During the course of 2014, we continued to build our business, once again reinforcing our belief in the power capacity in key areas of the business through internal and quality of our internal talent pipeline.
development moves for employees and through the The Executive Directors held regular talent discussions recruitment of key external talent.
at Executive Committee meetings and with individual In 2014, Andreas Fleischer, joined us from a competitor as Heads of Function to ensure we continue to maximise the our Business Unit Director for Northern Europe.
As part of potential of our employees at every level in the business Andreas strategic plan, we have reorganised the team and and to sustain a strong succession plan for key roles.
have recruited new talent into the business unit, focusing particularly in expanding our reach into new regions in Our new APC Assessment of Professional Germany and expanding our logistics capability.
Competence plus Graduate Programme At Group level, Nick Hughes, who joined at the end of SEGROs talent pipeline has benefited from the 2013 as our Marketing and Communications Director, recruitment of high quality real estate graduates over has started work to review the SEGRO brand and to anumber of years and in 2014 we launched our new maximise the impact we get from our marketing and APCplus programme.
As part of this, additional Our new programme is aimed at attracting graduates resources and skills have been added to strengthen from diverse backgrounds and providing them with a this team.
broader development programme including experience of corporate centre functions and the potential to work across Europe the plus in our APC!
Our first graduates on the new programme will join us in 2015.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 Creating a sustainable future Towards the end of the year we embarked on a piece of work to help us to articulate a deeper meaning and purpose for SEGRO and how that translates into how we behave as an organisation.
Essentially, we want to look beyond our immediate horizons to create a business with values that will guide us today and into the future.
This work will carry on throughout 2015 and will involve everyone in the business at various points during the year.
Human rights We are committed to doing things the right way and THE NUMBER OF PERSONS OF EACH SEX WHO ARE this is reflected in our values and our Code of Conduct.
SENIOR MANAGERS OF THE COMPANY A respect for human rights is implicit in our employment practices and the high standards we expect from our suppliers.
MALE FEMALE Valuing diversity We are committed to offering equal opportunities to people with disabilities and, if an employee becomes disabled while in our employment, we will offer appropriate support, retraining, equipment and facilities to enable them to continue in their role with SEGRO.
SPLIT ON We recognise the benefits of diversity and the value this BOARD brings to the organisation in terms of skills, knowledge 9 1 and experience.
We have a good record of promoting and appointing women to senior roles.
Women hold four out of the 18 positions in our Leadership Team.
LEADERSHIP As part of our ambition to increase the diversity of talent TEAM 14 4 joining the business, we have become part of Pathways to Property.
Pathways was established by Reading Real Estate Foundation RREF to help widen diversity in the real estate SPLIT OF MALE sector.
The programme includes a range of aspiration raising activities, including a Summer School programme, FEMALE 141 113 aimed at Year 12 students 16-17 year olds in targeted WORKFORCE state schools and colleges across the UK.
SEGRO are committed to providing financial support and work experience placements to support this initiative.
