36 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Over the last 12 months we have conducted those where a group-wide perspective will not only people and a comprehensive survey of the issues of most make us more efficient, but enable us to respond importance to our stakeholders.
This exercise involved more quickly.
values talking to everyone from office and retail occupiers During the year we simplified our decision to investors, employees, supply chain employees, making structure to make sure that people are both partners, and people in the wider community.
empowered to make a difference and accountable It became clear that one issue our stakeholders for what they do.
Across the London and Retail We are enhancing the way we work considered of key importance is the quality and portfolios we are establishing common roles and job and organise ourselves so we can well-being of their people.
That view is shared inside titles.
And we are encouraging our people to develop the Company.
For us, first and foremost, that means their careers across business units, enabling them to keep meeting our customers needs our own employees but also those working within become more rounded leaders, and bring greater and thrive in a fast-moving world.
our supply chain and for our customers.
This section perspective to the decisions that they make.
looks at the actions we are taking to help people Learning and recognition perform and prosper when working for and with During the year we launched a new learning and Land Securities.
development strategy to help employees gain the Our employees expertise and skills needed to succeed.
The first We aim to attract, develop and motivate phase of this saw the launch of a new Positive high performance individuals.
The quality and Impact management programme, under the No 1 commitment of our people helps set us apart.
We Place brand, aimed at those leading a team for the want employees who are ambitious for themselves first time.
This will be followed by a new leadership and the Company, and this means being proactive programme for senior managers.
This work is in about understanding the changing needs of our addition to our continued focus on mandatory customers, and being willing to take broad training areas such as health and safety.
accountability for ensuring that their evolving We know that a range of rewards, not just money, requirements are met.
motivates most people so this year we relaunched Over the year we enhanced our communications our business-wide recognition programme People to ensure we can keep attracting talented people.
This gives everyone the opportunity to This involved a complete redesign of the materials nominate their colleagues, including service partners, we use to attract new joiners and develop our for recognition, which can range from a simple employees, under the No 1 Place brand.
This will ethankyou to a significant cash sum awarded to first be used to attract school leavers onto our new individuals or teams.
In developing our ideas on Trainee Academy which will launch over the summer.
recognition, the senior HR team worked closely This work has tied into a wider project known with the Exchange Forum, our business-wide internally as Shaping the future for good that representative.
This group of eight people doing aims to inspire our people to make a real difference different roles across the business provides the for everyone affected by what we do, from our senior team with invaluable support in making Land customers and local communities to our Securities a great place to work, including ensuring shareholders and the wider world.
that ideas and suggestions from all levels, and all teams, are given proper consideration.
Robert Noel Management changes now takes part in the Forum, which meets quarterly.
During the year, executive director Richard Akers announced that he would be stepping down from Employee feedback the Board and he subsequently left the Company on This year we conducted a comprehensive 31 March 2014.
During his 19 years at the Company engagement survey across the business.
The results Richard created very strong relationships with retailers demonstrated that the biggest areas of concern in and was a driving force in the retail property sector.
the 2012 survey performance management, and Richards position has not been replaced directly the ability to raise concerns had been addressed at Board level.
Instead, we have expanded our effectively.
Key results from the survey: Executive Committee and its remit in terms Our overall response rate of 77% remains the same of oversight of the Companys operations.
as last years Pulse survey.
This Committee comprises the Chief Executive, Our overall Engagement and Sustainable Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Human Engagement scores of 88% positive are broadly Resources Director and two new roles: Managing the same as two years ago, but we remain ahead Director, Retail and Managing Director, London.
of both the Towers Watson UK national norm and Scott Parsons has been appointed Managing the UK High Performance norm.
Director, Retail and Colette OShea appointed Overall improvements in the scores are seen in the Managing Director, London.
Colette and Scott have categories of Performance, My Job, Leadership and end-to-end accountability for all aspects of investment, My Team, with our greatest gains being in the two asset management and development in their area.
key areas of focus from 2011: reporting instances This new structure enables Robert Noel to have a of dishonest or unethical practices, and poor clear view across the business, shortens reporting lines performance being dealt with effectively.
and creates one team at the head of the Company.
Comments from respondents highlight an Our organisation increased focus on performance and clearer, It is vital that the context in which our business stronger senior leadership.
Comments also operates drives the way we organise ourselves, suggested that areas requiring further attention not the other way around.
This means being clear include workload, systems and equipment, and a about those teams and activities which need to be desire to have greater accessibility to senior leaders.
dedicated to the London and Retail businesses, and STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our people Land Securities Annual Report 2014 37 Diversity Extending employment opportunities to Career development The diversity statistics for our industry are not what the community Sarah Roberts shares her story: we would like them to be.
Land Securities may be The construction industry faces the challenge of an I have been with the company for four better than most, but we would like to see it as our ageing population 50% of construction workers are years and worked in a variety of roles role to lead the way in shaping the future for good.
This is concerning because because, as Ive looked for progression, The Company is making good progress on gender a lack of skilled workers could restrict future Land Securities has been able to offer diversity.
Three of our seven Non-executive Directors development and affect construction costs.
I started as a PA are women, including a female chairman: and two of same time, it is also clear that employment can play an property administrator in the Retail our six Executive Committee members are women.
important role in helping disadvantaged people to get Portfolios asset management team.
See the charts on page 46 for more detail.
on in life and forge a better connection with others.
At the same time, a Land Securities loan We have a great deal more work to do on ethnic In 2011, Land Securities responded to the dual enabled me to study on a part-time diversity, as does our industry.
We are convinced that challenges of a shortage of skilled construction workers basis for an MSc in Real Estate.
I then having people from a range of backgrounds and with and social exclusion by launching its Employment took on the retail liaison manager role different perspectives makes us stronger and we are Strategy.
The Strategy is aimed at helping school at the Galleria, Hatfield, a job that was working to encourage greater diversity within the leavers and some of Londons most disadvantaged all about excellent customer service.
people particularly those who are ex-offenders, And I then progressed to an assistant homeless or long-term unemployed to secure jobs in Human rights operations manager role in the London construction.
We used our influence to bring together Our business activities take place in the UK and Portfolio, with sole responsibility for a wide range of industry peers, construction partners, matters affecting our employees are carried out under managing a building.
In January 2014 public bodies and charities to address these problems.
the jurisdiction of UK and EU law.
Some companies in I was appointed operations manager.
Together, the partners have provided preour supply chain have operations outside Europe, so Working in various roles and across employment training tailored specifically to we have acted to ensure that they follow the same departments has given me a strong construction, and successful candidates have been high standards of human rights for employees as are understanding of how the business employed through our supply chain.
Our programme operated in the UK.
Our new human rights policy sets links together and how I can best is successful and established and we have recently out the expectations and requirements we have of support my colleagues in other teams.
widened its remit to include our operational service our suppliers.
We have committed to work towards partners, given opportunity to disadvantaged people ensuring that organisations sourcing materials such as and brought new talent into our wider property timber, stone and steel for our significant construction Providing expert help management team.
projects from outside the EU adhere to our In 2013, 58 people came through these schemes principles.
You can read more about our policy into employment.
We have set ourselves an Health and safety ambitious target for 2015 to deliver 125 jobs We aim to remain below industry benchmarks through the combined programmes.
Our responsibility does not stop with these for reportable incidents for health and safety on programmes: we also provide local charities with development sites and within our managed property portfolio, and we aspire to have zero incidents.
employment grants and support local Business As part of our commitment to everyone working Improvement Districts BID Employment Charters.
The table below details the number of jobs which for and with Land Securities, we aim to improve the As part of our professional have been secured in the past two years.
In addition, health and safety of employees and contractors volunteering scheme, Ian Elson, a within our development and property portfolios, many hundreds have been given guidance on senior project manager in our London not least so we can reduce potential long-term employment, received training and gained qualifications Portfolio, has devoted 120 hours of through our employment related activities.
occupational illness and resultant insurance claims.
work and personal time over the last year to helping The Passage, one of London employment strategy: jobs secured Table 16 our homelessness partner charities 2013 2014 2015 in Victoria, SW1.
The Passage runs Construction Construction sector academy via construction partners 28 44 Londons largest voluntary sector day and service centre for homeless and vulnerable Service sector academy via training and facilities 7 5 partner people.
Each day it helps up to management partners academies 200 men and women, providing Construction Youth Trust 23 29 accommodation through a 40-bed Additional contractor programme at Nova, Victoria, SW1 0 8 hostel and 16 self-contained flats.
Ian Sub total 58 86 125 target has supported the charity with expert Other Employment grants programme via grass roots charities 0 50 property advice and guidance as it employment and homelessness partners carries out an extensive renovation initiatives BID Employment Charters 43 84 and refurbishment project.
He has also Sub total 43 134 helped interview and select a full-time project manager who will run the Total employment impact 101 220 project day to day.
For a full analysis of our health and safety performance this year, please see page 55
