22 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT THE HEART OF THE BUSINESS We are proud to once again be included in the FTSE4Good Index which helps us assess our achievements against a transparent and evolving global corporate responsibility standard.
OUR APPROACH PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2013 14 TARGETS FOR 2014 15 Gaining vital feedback on CUSTOMERS EXISTING We achieved a score of 78% in our 2013 14 customer Undertake a workplace and wellbeing review, areas for improvement Customer satisfaction and loyalty are key to the experience survey.
based on a survey of selected customers in The Workspace brand has sustainability of our business.
Several energy saving poster campaigns were Workspace buildings.
evolved to ensure that we put designed and circulated to centres during the year.
Launch Partnered Customers initiative at We help our customers to connect with local the customer at the heart of Posters identify the key areas of tenant energy flagship sites.
communities by participating in our community everything we do.
To help us usage and how tenants can reduce consumption.
Create a customer focused sustainability marketing achieve this we survey our programmes and working with them to improve Centre Managers encouraged responsible energy factsheet for selected assets.
customers experience of the environmental performance of our centres.
usage through their tenant newsletters.
Workspace annually and use Create a customer engagement action plan which the feedback to help us identifies opportunities to engage with customers improve and respond to their and the information to be communicated.
All staff are appraised Demonstrate how Workspaces property portfolio so that their performance is contributes to tenant employee productivity.
linked to a positive customer Continue to communicate energy saving ideas experience in their centres.
Registering all major SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS The Mayors Green Procurement Code is now Achieve a minimum Considerate Constructors score developments with the We aim to build long-term relationships with our of 35 for all relevant projects.
discontinued but we continue to work within Considerate Constructors suppliers by being a responsible purchaser of its guidelines.
Divert at least 75% weight of non-hazardous Scheme goods and services.
demolition waste from landfill for all developments All new construction projects require measures A prime requirement on on materials, waste and consideration for the and refurbishments.
We also work closely with our partners to integrate Workspace construction 2 On all buildings, procure green electricity tariffs to local community.
projects over 2,000m is that sustainability into the design, construction and 2 All new developments over 2,000m now registered cover 90% of our total energy consumption.
principal contractors are fully redevelopment of Workspace centres.
for the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
registered under the Considerate Constructors Approved signatory of prompt payment code.
As an example, the mixed-use redevelopment of our Highbury site including our new ScreenWorks business centre has been demonstrating compliance scores of very good and excellent, supporting sustainability target agreements established with our development partners and suppliers.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 We have long understood the value that a focused Corporate Social Responsibility CSR programme can create for Workspace, delivering operational efficiencies in the process and contributing to our reputation as a responsible business.
We believe our CSR activities benefit financial performance by driving occupancy rates, delivering cost savings and creating a more attractive business environment for our customers.
SUMMARY 2013 14 HIGHLIGHTS We are particularly pleased that we have extended our community investment strategy from E3 to E5.
We achieved a score of 78% in our 2013 14 customer experience survey.
All new construction projects require measures on materials, waste and consideration for the local community.
A Charitable Strategy has been put in place.
We developed ongoing training and development programmes to develop the right skills for our Jamie Hopkins introducing Workspaces charity expansion plans.
event with Kids Company in November 2013.
More detail on our CSR activities in 2013 14, including our performance against EPRA sustainability indicators, is available at www.
JAMIE HOPKINS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OUR APPROACH PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2013 14 TARGETS FOR 2014 15 Gaining vital feedback on CUSTOMERS EXISTING We achieved a score of 78% in our 2013 14 customer Undertake a workplace and wellbeing review, areas for improvement Customer satisfaction and loyalty are key to the experience survey.
24 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OUR APPROACH PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2013 14 TARGETS FOR 2014 15 Supporting London COMMUNITIES New strategy in place for all our social and Continue to deliver the E5 strategy: For the month of March, We aim to make the communities in which we charitable support schemes.
Increasing the provision of business space to certain Workspace funded the cost operate better places to live and do business in.
Moving from E3 to E5 community programme.
charities nominated in 2014 15. of four refrigerated FareShare Through staff engagement, we are partnering Record, report and reward all CSR charity initiatives Our flagship E5 community investment strategy vans and 12 staff volunteered with a number of charities including Kids Company, taking place across the Company.
supports education, employment, enjoyment, for a total of 96 hours to help: FareShare and XLP.
In collaboration with BiTC and the GLA, deliver Distribute 143,000 meals entrepreneurial and environmental initiatives Newly formed Charity Committee appointed InspiresMe work placements for local youths.
to over 150 Londonin the communities that we reside.
to ensure consistency and transparency in all Our employees will continue to give their time and based charities.
Feed 7,250 vulnerable people charitable and community initiatives.
energy to support charitable events.
We have provided assistance to a number of Evaluate the socio-economic impact of a completed Save 52 tonnes of food charitable organisations in the UK in the form Workspace development by March 2015. from going to waste.
of either reduced rent or free accommodation.
Prevent 26 tonnes of harmful CO emissions.
2 Introducing a new EMPLOYEES 381 training days completed by 118 staff to help Continue training and development.
appraisal process We provide a safe and rewarding work environment develop the right skills for our expansion plans.
Increase Director-led staff briefings in all A new simpler process was to ensure we attract and retain talented and Delivering presentations to employees to ensure business locations.
introduced to help foster ambitious individuals.
they understand the strategy of the business Updating our equal opportunities policy.
open and honest dialogue and the part they play.
Encourage staff to participate in E5 strategy.
Our commitment to diversity encourages innovation between manager and team New appraisal process to ensure that employees member.
Regular appraisals and ensures our workforce reflects the diversity of understand how their objectives assist in driving Continue to deliver the E5 strategy: provide an opportunity to our customers and communities.
Support at least 160 hours of staff volunteering review performance and set objectives as well as reward Introduced a Share Incentive Plan.
Gender split on PLC Board high-performance employees Continued to offer Sharesave Scheme to employees.
Actively encourage staff to take part in events, Male: 6 Female: 1 in the form of a higher bonus.
Staff engagement at the core of our new strategy sporting challenges and adventures to fundraise for social and charitable support.
Team managers and Gender split of entire workforce Investors in People reaccreditation achieved for members objectives are now Male: 54% Female: 46% the 10th year.
aligned and it is understood We have judged that human rights are not a how collectively they help material risk for the business due to existing drive business performance.
regulatory requirements in the UK.
Achieving BREEAM ENVIRONMENT T otal energy consumption down 4%, on course Achieve an average recycling rate of 57% across accreditation Our buildings are our biggest environmental impact to reach our target of reducing consumption by all assets where Workspace manages waste.
A key Workspace and we are committed to making the most of 8% between March 2013 and March 2015.
Develop and implement a customer waste engagement sustainability target is to opportunities to reduce carbon emissions and Total greenhouse gas GHG emissions down strategy which will include the conduct of recycling achieve BREEAM Very Good energy use, benefiting the environment and 2.9% in the year.
audits and providing feedback to customers.
status as a minimum on reducing operating costs.
51% of total waste was recycled with zero waste Monitor 2014 15 water consumption and investigate redevelopment and major sent direct to landfill.
water efficiency opportunities with a view to setting refurbishment schemes We strive to reduce other environmental impacts 2 We recorded water consumption on 62 assets.
a 2015 16 reduction target in April 2015. over 2,000m.
We achieved BREEAM very good on our Pill Box Set energy reduction targets for our ten buildings that Pill Box, our latest completed development which completed this year.
consume the most energy the ten buildings represent refit project, has attained this Efficient energy usage at our new head office 50% of total energy consumption across the portfolio with an overall design stage building, Chester House.
In 2013 14 we used 176 to assist the achievement of the portfolio reduction score of 60.3% covering kWhe NLA PA compared to the good practice target which finishes in March 2015. categories including energy standard of 223 kWhe NLA PA JLL Real Estate Undertake a portfolio risk review looking at Energy management, transport, Greenhouse gas emissions Environmental Benchmark.
Performance Certificate EPC ratings and construction materials, Overall GHG emissions across the portfolio have decreased opportunities to improve them.
waste, land use and ecology.
On a like-for-like basis energy Review the opportunities across the portfolio for consumption, which accounts for approximately 98% renewable energy initiatives and create an action of our total carbon emissions, has decreased by 3.6%.
plan for implementation by March 2016.
Achieve an 8% reduction in energy between This can be mainly attributed to a portfolio-wide improvement March 2013 and March 2015. of building management systems, and a milder winter.
Create an action plan to improve scores in More information can be found in the Report of the Directors external industry benchmarks following a review on page 73. of 2013 14 performance.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 OUR APPROACH PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2013 14 TARGETS FOR 2014 15 Supporting London COMMUNITIES New strategy in place for all our social and Continue to deliver the E5 strategy: For the month of March, We aim to make the communities in which we charitable support schemes.
high-performance employees Continued to offer Sharesave Scheme to employees.
Actively encourage staff to take part in events, in the form of a higher bonus.
Team managers and Investors in People reaccreditation achieved for members objectives are now the 10th year.
Achieving BREEAM ENVIRONMENT Total energy consumption down 4%, on course Achieve an average recycling rate of 57% across accreditation Our buildings are our biggest environmental impact to reach our target of reducing consumption by all assets where Workspace manages waste.
