Strategic report corporate responsibility corporate responsibility is embedded in the day-to-day operations of our business.
HIGHLIGHTS DuRING THE YEAR community engagement London Benchmarking Group contribution Our long-term prosperity depends on thesuccess of Londons of 3% of EPRA pre-tax earnings West End as a destination for domestic and overseas visitors as well as a place where businesses and residents want to be.
We 85% of refurbishment schemes achieved focus our community investment on the areas in which our a B or c grade EPc villages are situated and in the aspects which benefit the West End both as a neighbourhood and visitor destination.
We work 83% of tim ber from certified sustainable closely with organisations based in the West End in social, leisure or arts fields and, in some cases, help them to be sources located in areas which they might otherwise be unable to afford.
87% of r efurbishment schemes achieved Employees an above satisfactory score for the considerate constructors Scheme We have 23 employees including executive directors with an average length of service of 13 years.
There has, again, been no 100% green tariff electricity in carnaby, employee turnover excluding retirement.
Seven Dials, chinatown, Soho and our Our remuneration policy is closely aligned with our corporate office responsibility strategy with performance forming part of our executive remuneration.
All employees are eligible for the same No r eportable health and safety incidents range of benefits as the executive directors.
see page 62 for our policy on diversity see page 71 for annual bonus achievments The focus of our sustainability strategy is to extend the useful life of our buildings and, in doing so, preserve and enhance the Human rights heritage of Londons West End.
An essential aspect is to create economically sustainable environments through our long-term As the number of employees is small and the business of the management strategy for our villages.
Group is focused in the West End of London, human rights are considered in the Groups wider operations and throughout its Most buildings in our portfolio are within conservation areas and supply chain.
The Group intends to sign up to the UN Global some 25% are listed as being of special architectural interest.
Compact during the year ahead in recognition of the importance We preserve buildings and improve their environmental and of human rights.
economic performance through refurbishment and reconfiguration schemes, which are carried out within the Our main report on corporate responsibility is available on constraints of current regulations protecting listed buildings and ourwebsite.
During the year, 85% of the EPCs issued following refurbishment schemes achieved a grade B or C. see pages 52 to 53 for our performance against this years targets and targets for the year ahead see page 81 for greenhouse gas emissions see pages 34 to 35 for redevelopment and refurbishment activity #051 @shaftesbury.
co. uk annual report 2014 Corporate responsibility continued Set out below is an extract from our summary corporate responsibility report against the key targets this year and the objectives for the year to 30 September 2015.
We are independently assessed by RPS Group plc.
OBJECTIVES ACHIEVED IN 2014 TARGETS fOR 2015 Stakeholder and community engagement Maintain membership of various Membership of DJSI, Carbon Disclosure Continue membership of DJSI, GRESB, benchmarking indices Project and FTSE4Good.
EPRA FTSE4Good, Carbon Disclosure Project sustainability reporting silver award and others winner.
GRESB sector leader Continue to support local community Membership of the London Continue membership of London groups and be proactive in identifying Benchmarking Group and adoption of Benchmarking Group and further and working with charitable and other their methodology for reporting develop benchmarking measurements organisations community involvement has continued.
for reporting Contribution to community and stakeholders including Section 106 payments equates to 3% of EPRA pre-tax earnings Environmental responsibility Invest in brownfield sites only 100% regeneration of central London Continue to achieve 100% use and sites regeneration of brownfield sites as our portfolio expands Operate in an environmentally For 73% of refurbishment schemes, a Maintain BREEAM criteria for re-use of sustainable manner throughout our minimum of 50% of facade and a structure and facade in 100% of activities minimum of 80% of the primary structure refurbishment schemes ie a minimum of was retained 50% of the facade and 80% of the primary structure re-used Extend the useful life of buildings and Of the EPCs obtained, 85% were a grade improve their sustainability by raising C or above following refurbishment the energy performance certificate rating of properties being refurbished, according to predetermined targets Only one development scheme fronting Aim for BREEAM Very Good for all new Kingly Street and Fouberts Place was in commercial developments progress during 2014.
It is currently on track to achieve: BREEAM 2008 Offices Very Good BREEAM 2008 Retail Good BREEAM 2008 Restaurants Good Timber to be sourced, where possible, Re-use of timber maximised throughout Continue to maximise the proportion of from well-managed sources, certified by all schemes timber that is re-used third-party certification bodies 83% of timber has been confirmed as Source a minimum of 60% of all timber sustainably sourced with full chain of from certified sources and ensure all custody and 50% using Forestry timber is purchased from legal sources Stewardship Commission timber #052 Corporate responsibility continued Strategic report OBJECTIVES ACHIEVED IN 2014 TARGETS fOR 2015 Monitor and, where possible, reduce Absolute energy consumption decreased Achieve a year-on-year 5% energy energy consumption.
Investigate in the wholly-owned portfolio by 3% reduction in both the wholly-owned opportunities for the use of renewable Absolute energy consumption in portfolio and joint venture energy Longmartin increased by 15% due to Purchase green electricity where costs increased tenant occupancy are within 5% of brown electricity Green tariff electricity usage: 30% of the portfolio sources 100% renewable energy.
45% of the remainder of the energy provided comes from suppliers with above average renewable sources Manage construction waste to ensure 93% of contracts achieved target of a Aim to re-use or recycle a minimum of legal compliance and maximise re-use minimum of 80% recycled construction 80% non-hazardous demolition and and or recycling of non-hazardous waste and demolition waste.
98% diversion construction waste from landfill, by weight, for applicable schemes Portfolio waste recycle a minimum of In Carnaby and Seven Dials, 45% of Recycle 40% of tenants waste at 30% in Carnaby and Seven Dials and tenants waste was recycled and 4% Carnaby and Seven Dials and 30% at divert 80% from landfill composted.
Of the remaining waste, Longmartin and divert a minimum of 100% was diverted from landfill to 90% of waste from landfill Recycle a minimum of 10% of tenants energy from waste waste in Longmartin and divert 80% from landfill In Longmartin, 25% of tenants waste was recycled and the remaining waste was diverted from landfill to energy from waste Social responsibility Ensure there are no reportable health No reportable health and safety Aim for no reportable accident and and safety accidents incidents accidents recorded in a refurbishment incidents throughout the Groups throughout the portfolio project or in the day-to-day management activities of the portfolio Ensure all refurbishment schemes 100% of eligible schemes were registered Continue to achieve 30 out of 50 above a above a specified capital value are satisfactory score 87% of schemes achieved the target registered with the Considerate score on the first visit.
The overall average Constructors Scheme and continue to for the sites visited was 33.6 out of 50 achieve 30 out of 50 above a satisfactory score #053 @shaftesbury.
co. uk annual report 2014 CHINATOWNS ANNuAL fOOTfALL IS OVER 50 milliOn #054 Governance Shaftesbury SELf PORTRAIT Governance Directors and officers56 Corporate governance58 Nomination Committee report61 Audit Committee report63 Remuneration report67 Summary of remuneration policy68 Annual Remuneration report69 Directors report80 Directors responsibilities82 Independent auditors report 83 #055
