30 Corporate Responsibility The Board acknowledges its duty to ensure the Group conducts its activities responsibly and with proper regard for all its stakeholders including employees, shareholders, business partners, suppliers and local communities.
In this context, the Group seeks to Subject to regulators guidelines, Across all our territories, we encourage integrate corporate social responsibility Cineworld seeks to show a wide a range children to come to our cinemas by CSR considerations, relating of film product and other screen content.
offering shows specifically aimed at them particularly to social, ethical, health and Film programmes are tailored to each as they are the future film going audience.
safety, and environmental issues, in its country and screenings are often We ensure that all movies for childrens day-to-day business operations.
Further frequently driven by local communities shows are dubbed into the native information in respect of the Groups and their preferences.
Operating large language so they can enjoy the full cinema approach is set out below with a few sites with high numbers of screens experience.
Senior citizens and students illustrative examples.
enables us to offer such a wide choice benefit from discounts at certain times and bring as many people as possible to of the day.
In some countries, Cineworld our cinemas.
also allows customers with disabilities to Ethics be accompanied by a carer with them Cineworld seeks to act with honesty and Cineworld has continued its commitment free of charge.
integrity in its dealings with customers, to Event Cinema which brings a wider employees, shareholders, regulators and range of content to customers throughout All new cinemas are designed to exceed suppliers.
How we behave in such dealings our estate enabling our audiences to see current statutory requirements to provide reflect on our reputation which is a key live shows taking place around the world buildings which are technically advanced, asset underpinning the successful delivery ranging from the Metropolitan Opera in yet meet high operational standards in of our strategy.
Our Ethics policy seeks the US to Monty Python Live from the terms of public service, safety and to guide the behaviour of our people by UK.
Operating in this way supports such accessibility.
They are designed to remove outlining 12 broad principles establishing productions making them more physical features which can hinder the common values on which we do business commercially viable, allows more people use of the facility by the less physically to help ensure we act in appropriate ways to see them and, in turn, brings more able, so that auditoriums are as accessible to maintain and enhance our reputation.
people to the cinema and frequently a as possible given the restrictions of The principles also provide a framework very different type of customer.
The opportunity for how we manage corporate is also taken to enhance access within responsibility issues.
Cineworld works with various charities, cinemas when they undergo major local government and community groups refurbishment as part of an ongoing Our Ethical Principles across all the territories in which it programme of improvements 1.
Activities include working with and renovations.
We will act with integrity.
We will respect our customers.
providing free shows for organisations As part of the process of improving 4.
We will treat individuals properly.
working with disadvantaged children further Cineworlds offer to disabled 5.
and providing free venues for local customers, Cineworld staff receive 6.
We will treat our suppliers properly.
authorities to teach children about road training in disability awareness and 7.
We will manage relations with safety.
Such activities not only contribute welcoming disabled customers.
to the community, but also help to descriptive and autism-friendly screenings 8.
We will maintain high standards of establish and make the Cineworld brands are offered at many of our cinemas.
financial record keeping and reporting.
better respected and known in their Subtitled screenings are also provided 9.
We will comply with the rules on local communities.
in English speaking countries aimed at inside information and share dealing.
We will maintain high standards Cineworld also works as a venue partner of health and safety.
We will respect the environment.
are well known and high profile, in With films being released in cinemas in 12.
We will seek to contribute to certain territories Cineworld sponsors different territories at different times, the community.
festivals showcasing local film producers there remains a significant risk of piracy work and run short film competitions for within the cinema industry.
Cineworld Community students encouraging the development continues to work closely with Cineworld observes all national regulators of future talent and providing access to organisations, where they exist, to help film classification guidelines unless the potential audiences.
This involvement reduce and prevent film piracy.
In line local regulators require otherwise.
In once again helps to promote Cineworlds with Cineworlds operational strategy, counties where there are no such brands through the wider film industry.
cinema management teams have a classification guidelines, we provide responsibility to ensure that they do information to customers about films so Access for All everything reasonably practicable to they can make informed choices about Cineworld is keen to promote a Movies protect the intellectual property rights the appropriateness of people under 18 for All policy for our customers.
of films and Event Cinema exhibited attending any performance.
We also Increasing accessibility results in local within their cinemas.
ensure that all trailers are complementary cinemas playing a fuller role in the in terms of suitability to the main feature.
communities in which they operate.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 31 this year a growing number of films shown With the ever-changing threat of evolving Cineworld also seeks to treat all its staff technologies and smaller undetectable in Cineworlds cinemas were distributed in accordance with its Ethics policy so in this way.
recording devices, Cineworld seeks to that each person is accorded dignity mitigate this risk by constantly reviewing and respect and the guiding principle is 3D technology has its own environmental and developing its training programmes, followed that we treat other people as policies and procedures to ensure its challenges with the use of special we ourselves would like to be treated.
Customers are staff are able to effectively prevent film piracy.
Night-vision technology is utilised encouraged to reuse their 3D glasses by Gender Breakdown of pricing structures.
This approach has and there is an increased vigilance Cineworld People around high-profile titles which are had significantly results and, depending upon the territory, the level of reuse of particularly vulnerable on release.
Board of Senior Other team glasses obtained from previous visits 1 Directors managers members now ranges from 25%50%.
Environment Male 9 8 4,639 Cineworld seeks to comply with all relevant environmental legislation and to Retail Female 1 6 4,016 operate in an environmentally sensitive We offer a range of products our manner.
The Directors acknowledge the customers seek in a way that is 1 Senior managers are those people who report impact that the business has on the responsible, takes account of alternative directly to an Executive Director.
environment and seek to mitigate it.
healthier options and reduces the impact Often changes which help to mitigate on the environment.
Much of the focus Since the year end, it has been announced our environmental impact also reduce has recently been on providing that two male Directors will be stepping our operating costs.
information to enable customers to down at the AGM having served nine make more informed choices.
years and, subject to shareholder approval Being a multi-site business, the Group is at the AGM, a female Director will join conscious of its total energy consumption In line with our philosophy of offering the Board which will result in it becoming and amount of waste materials generated more healthy options, we now provide a over 20% female.
and is actively working on reducing wider range of sugar free and carbonated both energy usage and quantity of drinks and other healthier choices.
While Safety waste materials produced that cannot some such offers have been welcomed The ongoing management of the be recycled.
by our customers, certain more radical day-to-day health, safety and welfare of healthy options have been trialled Cineworlds customers, employees and Since the start of 2014, wireless energy unsuccessfully as many customers still contractors is of major importance.
With management systems have been associate going to the cinema as a over 82 million customer visits a year operated in a number of cinemas in five special occasion on which they enjoy and over 8,500 employees, Cineworld of the territories in which we trade to themselves choosing to eat and drink seeks to maintain high standards in the reduce energy usage, with considerable what they like.
effective management of our health and reductions being achieved.
Where such safety obligations, and our duty of care a system is not operational, building Using preferred wholesalers or logistic to our customers and staff.
management systems are utilised to centres has enabled us to reduce the reduce total energy by ensuring staff are number of deliveries to our sites.
Each year every cinema in the Group is fully trained in their use.
The Groups Combining deliveries is not only more subject to health and safety assessments mandatory greenhouse gas report can efficient for our business, but also and a fire risk audit.
Results are compared be found in the Directors Report on reduces the number of journeys made year-on-year and any significant issues pages 67 and 68. by vehicles with all the associated are followed up with the assistance of environmental benefits.
specialist external consultants where Our cinema websites enable e-tickets to needed.
Overall, the results have shown be purchased and used avoiding the need Each time there is a requirement for a that standards remain high.
All incidents to print tickets and, in many instances, new or replacement contract, all proposed are logged, investigated and action poster cases are now digital reducing arrangements are carefully reviewed to taken, where appropriate, to ensure that the need to deliver, install, and ultimately ensure that they are not only commercially the chances of a reoccurrence are throw away large paper posters.
All beneficial, but also appropriate account reduced as far as reasonably possible.
these efforts help to reduce our use of is taken of environmental considerations.
Many of our suppliers and partners have strong environmental records.
The use of digital projection technology The Strategic Report is set out on pages has further reduced Cineworlds Diversity and Human Rights 1 to 31. environmental impact.
The move away Cineworld is an equal opportunity from 35mm celluloid prints has reduced employer and seeks to recruit, retain and By order of the Board the use of raw materials for the production promote staff on the basis of their of bulky prints using chemical processes, qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
Mooky GreidingerPhilip Bowcock which ultimately are shredded as they A wide range of applicants are 12 March 2015 are unable to be recycled at the end of encouraged to apply for all roles.
In their relatively short life.
In addition, the employment-related decisions, the distribution of digital content through business complies with all relevant small hard drives, down IDSL lines or by legislation including that specifically satellite greatly reduces the delivery targeted at preventing discrimination and costs and associated carbon footprint.
such principles are embedded through Hard drives are reused, while delivery by the business by requisite policies.
satellite and IDSL line removes the carbon impact almost completely and Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
