Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility distribution of Preliminary and Interim Announcements and Introduction press releases.
In April this year the Company also launched The Company is committed to operating its business with Compass an intranet resource enabling further exchanges honesty, integrity and fairness.
Our Board of Directors is of information and sharing throughout the Group.
Copies ultimately responsible for establishing high ethical standards of the Annual Report and Accounts are also made available of behaviour, effective corporate governance and defines our to the operating business and this communication process strategic and financial objectives.
Corporate responsibility enables employees to gain an understanding of the Groups remains central to delivering our strategy and the Chief objectives and their roles in achieving them.
Executive Officer is the director with specific responsibility for CR matters and oversees the processes and measures used Key employee statistics to manage the Groups social, environmental, ethical, health and safety and associated internal controls.
The Group has 2014 2013 implemented a number of policies covering anti-bribery and corruption, business ethics, whistle-blowing and diversity Average number of employees 2,494 2,190 which support our approach to corporate responsibility.
The Females as % of total 20.0% 21.1% effectiveness of these policies and procedures are monitored and reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that they align with our Group strategy.
We require all our employees to To enable personal development, employees are encouraged conduct themselves to the highest level of ethical conduct to participate in training and development programmes and in their business activities and to comply with relevant to obtain professional qualifications relevant to their roles laws, regulations and standards of market practice in through the Groups training programmes.
The Group has all jurisdictions where the Group operates.
We do not broadened its management development and graduate permit bribery, illegal or corrupt business practices and we recruitment programme which focuses on recruiting talented provide a procedure for employees to raise any malpractice graduates, developing skills and experience and producing concerns in an appropriate forum without fear of recourse.
We operate in a competitive marketplace and the Board Employees recognises the importance of rewarding employees appropriately for the value they bring to the business and The Board recognises that as a service business, our aims to offer rewards that attract and retain key talent.
In talented and diverse workforce is our most valuable asset.
addition, the Company encourages employees to share in The long-term success of the Group is dependent on its success through share ownership and annually invites the quality, skill, dedication and motivation of our people employees to participate in its share schemes.
At 31 and keeping them inspired is one of our highest priorities.
December 2014, 287 employees were participants of the Accordingly we are focused on creating an environment James Fisher Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2013: where performance is rewarded, people are respected for 251. their contribution, diversity and inclusion is encouraged and where integrity is upheld in all aspects of our work.
The Company is committed to equal opportunity and it is our The Group remains committed to seeking out, retaining policy to ensure that all employees and potential employees and developing the highest calibre employees to maximise are treated fairly regardless of their race, religious or political business growth and performance and is committed to beliefs, gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation equal opportunity for all employees and job applicants free of or disability.
We aim to ensure that people from any discrimination.
background or gender have equal access to employment, training and career progression opportunities.
We strive to The Company also recognises the need to provide varying select individuals on merit and do not consider that targets working practices to support both the needs of the or quotas are appropriate.
During 2014 the Board took Company and that of the employee to maintain a successful practical steps to ensure that the issue of gender diversity work-life balance.
In support of this the Company operates was addressed as part of the Boards succession and a flexible working policy.
We support our employees through training and ongoing investment and seek to ensure that employees are informed on matters affecting their employment and business developments in the Group through management briefings and newsletters, the Groups web site and by the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate responsibility continued Set out below is a breakdown of the average number of The Groups principal operating companies maintain persons by gender and category: internationally recognised Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems accredited to OHSAS 18001 and management systems which are accredited to the Key employee statistics international quality standard ISO 19001.
The Group has 2014 2013 adopted the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 RIDDOR in the reporting of Male Female Male Female recordable incidents.
Main Board Directors 6 1 7 - A reportable incident under RIDDOR is a work-related injury Senior Managers 37 9 37 6 which results in a persons incapacitation for more than seven days.
The number of reportable incidents across the Employees 2,007 434 1,691 434 Group in 2014 was 4 2013: 6.
The Group also records lost All of our employees are treated with respect and dignity time accidents LTAs to monitor performance and trends.
and harassment of any kind is not tolerated.
An LTA is where a worker is incapacitated for three or more consecutive days, not including the day of incident.
In 2014 It is our policy and practice to give full and fair consideration the Group incurred 3 LTAs 2013: 2. to applications for employment by disabled people.
If an employee became disabled during the course of In addition the Group monitors its overall RIDDOR their employment, wherever practicable, the Company reportable frequency rate.
The Groups RIDDOR reportable would make every effort to ensure that arrangements and frequency rate was 0.7 in 2014 2013: 0.9. adjustments are made to continue their employment and arrange appropriate training for that employee.
Environmental The Group is committed to operating its businesses in Health and safety an environmentally responsible manner, recognises that The Group is fully committed to providing very high its operations have an impact on the environment and is standards of safety to its employees and to contractors committed to working within the appropriate regulatory and visitors to the Groups premises.
Our ultimate aim is to framework to minimise the environmental impacts of its have no accidents or injuries.
The Group promotes a safety operations, so far as reasonably practicable.
The Chief Executive Our principal operating companies are ISO 14001 compliant Officer, Nick Henry, has overall responsibility for health and or are in the process of achieving accreditation.
This safety and the review of health and safety performance is internationally recognised environmental management system usually the first agenda item at each Board and business enables a systematic approach to handling environmental board meeting.
In accordance with our decentralised issues within an organisation.
management approach, accountability is with local Energy consumption was measured across the Group management to comply with local laws and regulations and by recording data on the combustion of fuel and the use specific needs.
of electricity at its facilities.
The Groups total greenhouse Nick Henry chairs the Group Health and Safety Committee gas emissions GHG in 2014, was 78,400 tonnes of CO 2 GHSC, which meets on a quarterly basis to discuss all 2013: 82,600 tonnes of CO.
This is largely made up of 2 health and safety issues including incidents, mitigating emissions from the combustion of oil and gas in vessels, actions and training requirements.
The GHSC ensures which amount for 94% of our total emissions 2013: 96%, that recordable safety incidents are reported to the Board although one 4,000 tonne vessel can carry over one hundred and each Group operating company is maintaining high times the volume of fuel transported by a single road tanker, standards of health and safety in its business.
Through significantly reducing congestion and emissions to air.
the GHSC, the Group shares best practice and following any health and safety incidents, including near misses, appropriate corrective action is taken to mitigate the risk of their recurrence.
20 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements and regulatory compliance as well as promoting responsible Emissions total mtk behaviour across the Group.
2014 2013 The Group has an established anti-bribery and corruption policy reflecting the requirements of the UK Bribery CO equivalent from electricity 2 2.8 1.7 Act 2010 and has introduced an extensive compliance consumption in facilities programme which has top level commitment from the Board CO from combustion of fuel at 2 1.6 1.9 and from senior management.
The programme includes facilities and road vehicles communication of the statement and policy, training, risk CO from combustion of fuel in 2 assessment, monitoring and review processes.
Employees 74.0 79.0 vessels assessed to be at risk are required to complete the training Total emissions CO 78.4 82.6 2 and to self-certify that they understand and agree to be bound by its provisions.
Our GHG emissions have been calculated using UK On-going compliance is monitored by local compliance Government guidelines for conversion of fuels and electricity.
officers who are required to report to their local boards and The Groups carbon intensity ratio calculated against Group to the Group Compliance Officer on at least a biannual basis.
Our goal is to reduce The compliance officers are responsible for ensuring that risk our GHG emissions, where possible.
To help do so we assessments, training and awareness are up to date and are have identified a series of actions to help reduce carbon required to monitor, record and report agency arrangements intensive activities, including monitoring and reducing energy with third parties.
consumption, actively improving energy efficiency and avoiding unnecessary travel.
Our Tankships division operates Customers a Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan to regulate shipping energy efficiency and to control our marine GHG The Group aims to provide superior customer service emissions.
Waste management and recycling of materials, through value added solutions combined with high quality where practicable, is encouraged across the Group and products.
High class customer service and product and as part of its clear desk policy the Company seeks to service innovation are critical elements in helping customers minimise the use of paper and electronic scanning is actively to find solutions and to be successful.
We have developed encouraged throughout the business.
long lasting relationships with customers over many years and have followed a customer-led strategy to expand into the fast growing international markets.
We are proud to be a Human rights trusted partner of major corporations, government agencies Whilst we do not have a separate human rights policy, James and customers around the world and understand that Fisher is committed to supporting and respecting human continued commitment to our existing and future customers rights wherever our business operates.
Our everyday work is fundamental to our success.
Accordingly, we strive to work practices and policies throughout the Group are designed hard to understand our customers needs, and to deliver to ensure that respect for human rights is integrated into the client satisfaction.
systems and culture of our business.
We do not tolerate the use of child or forced labour within our business and take all Suppliers steps possible to ensure that our suppliers also uphold all internationally recognised human rights.
The Group has a wide range of suppliers and whilst the Group does not operate centralised procurement, it continues to promote social responsibility, trade compliance Business ethics and anti-bribery and anti-corruption within its global supplier base.
Key and corruption policies suppliers are vetted to ensure that they adhere to our codes of conduct and where appropriate operate recognised Our business ethics policy aims to instil the highest standards international quality, health and safety and management of business behaviour across the Group and focuses on systems.
embedding a culture of ethical compliance, so that all of our employees understand the standards of ethical business practices that are expected from them.
As well as protecting the reputation of the Group and safeguarding the investment of our shareholders, the business ethics policy aims to protect the interests of every employee by ensuring legal Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate responsibility continued Communities Windermere Steamboat Museum The Sir John Fisher Foundation is a charitable trust established in 1979 by Sir John and Lady Fisher and supports causes throughout the UK, but with special regard to those based in and working for the benefit of people living in and around Barrow-in-Furness and the surrounding area.
The Trustees of the Foundation retain a significant shareholding in the Company and support charitable causes, particularly in relation to maritime, medical and disability, education, music, arts and community projects.
In 2014 the Foundation was able to make grants or commitments to charitable causes of 1.5m.
The Group continues to encourage its trading companies to support local communities and charities within their operational areas and during the year companies and employees throughout the Group have given their time and money undertaking a wide range of charitable giving and fund raising activities, including: An employee ran the Berlin Marathon for Macmillan Cancer Support and James Fisher Offshore made a 300 donation to the charity: An employee abseiled off the Forth Rail Bridge in aid of the Scottish Association for Mental Health raising nearly 800: James Fisher Defence donated 1,000 to Glasgows The Windermere Steamboat Museum which owns an Riding for the Disabled Association: historic collection of steam launches and other boats, Divex sponsored the Northern Diving Groups Guinness was taken over by The Lakeland Arts Trust in 2007.
The World Record breaking underwater cycle by donating collection includes vessels dating back to the 13th Century 500 to Sports Relief.
and what is reputed to be the worlds oldest mechanicallypowered boat, the SL Dolly.
It was decided that a complete overhaul of the site and restoration of the craft was required and The Sir John Fisher Foundation committed the first major donation of 300,000.
This allowed approaches to national funders and to the public to raise 2.5m to match fund a Heritage Lottery grant of 9.4m.
During his life, Sir John Fisher, who lived on Windermere, took a personal interest in the steamboats, which were collected by a neighbour George Pattinson, the museums founder.
The wet dock in the refurbished museum is to be named after Sir John Fisher.
Work has now commenced to redevelop the site into a working museum, where the steamboat collection will be preserved.
An integral part of the museum will be a conservation workshop, where visitors can watch boat conservation work carried out by experts, apprentices and volunteers.
A programme for school and college students will actively involve hands-on science, technology, engineering and mathematics together with local and nautical history.
