14 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development We recognise that by conducting our operations in a responsible manner, our activities and behaviour bring about lasting benefits to our stakeholders and to society.
Our presence generates considerable local benefits and we are proud of the role we play in creating and supporting sustainable socio-economic value in our local communities.
Our ability to deliver long-term value to all our stakeholders is based onour responsible management of our assets, operational processes and business activities.
We are committed to operating in a transparent and Our robust risk management framework allows us responsible manner.
Our statement of values and Code of to identify and mitigate  risks.
Conduct, which are available on our website, underpin our The framework identifies material matters and supports approach to sustainability and embody the expectations ourongoing assessment of what matters most to our we place on our employees, our contractors and our business and to our stakeholders.
Our policies and procedures support We strive to adopt a safe and sustainable approach to theupholding of good business practices and we expect our business practices, and to contribute to the socioallour operations to meet or exceed the applicable laws economic growth of the communities in which we operate.
andto apply other external requirements as appropriate.
Through the reporting function within GCP, our Board Glencore Corporate Practice GCP, our corporate receives regular updates and has detailed oversight responsibility management system, provides a framework of how our business is performing across all of the for the integration of our sustainability principles, guidance sustainability indicators.
and policies throughout our business.
GCP underpins our We publish an annual sustainability report, which meets approach towards societal, environmental and compliance the requirements of Global Reporting Initiative GRI Level indicators, providing clear guidance on the standards we A.
This report covers in considerable detail our approach expect all our operations to achieve.
GCP supports the and our performance across all of the sustainability topics.
implementation of our health, environment, safety and Our sustainability reports are available on our website: community HSEC policies by our assets and helps them www.
to determine the procedures necessary to attain our targets and expected behaviour.
Lost time injury frequency Human rights Joined the rate 1.58 in 2014: a policy launched International Council on % Our human rights policy was Mining and developed in line with the Universal 16 Declaration of Human Rights, Metals theILO Labour Standards decrease compared to andtheUN Guiding Principles 1.87in 2013 Lost time injuries recorded per million hours worked 15 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Performance during 2014 Key priorities for 2015 Elimination of fatalities, with particular attention on our 2014 2013 2012 focus assets and underground operations where most fatalities have historically occurred Fatalities at managed operations 16 26 27 Lost time injury frequency rate Continued focus on reducing our lost time injury permillion hours worked 1.58 1.87 2.06 frequency rate to achieve our 2016 target, and reducing by CO emissions million tonnes 2 50% our total recordable injury frequency rate by 2020 Scope 1 23.2 24.4 22.4 Complete our occupational disease prevention framework CO emissions million tonnes 2 in the first half of the year and roll it out across all our Scope 2 13.4 13.8 12.4 assets by the end of 2015 Total energy usage petajoules 250 244 212 Continued development and strengthening of our employees skills 3 Water withdrawn million m 958 942 724 Review the social strategies at our operations and, where Community investment spend $million 114 168 201 necessary, revise to maximise our contribution to local socio-economic development Number of employees and contractors 181,349 203,637 188,555 Complete our water management framework by the end of the year.
This framework includes consistent definitions, a water accounting tool, water quality management and reporting systems Review training on the Voluntary Principles on Security & Human Rights to ensure a consistent approach across all our assets Progress against commitments in 2014 We did not achieve our target of zero We achieved a 16% reduction in our lost We are developing a water strategy to fatalities.
Tragically, 16 people lost their time injury frequency rate compared better manage our impact on water lives while working for Glencore to 2013 resources: this will be rolled out in 2015 fatalities lost time injury Water strategy 16 1.58 per million hours frequency rate progressed We continued to support public health At least 1% of profits before tax Our human rights policy, developed in programmes for major health issues set aside to support community 2013, was rolled out to all our assets such as HIV AIDS, TB and malaria.
investment initiatives We are committed to improving the health of the communities living near our assets Human rights policy $114m in 2014 rolled out globally We recorded no major or catastrophic 10 operational HSEC policies developed Registration of the substances we environmental incidents and implemented across the Group produce and import is on track to meet during 2014 the REACH deadline of 2018 major or catastrophic Ontrack to meeting 0 10 HSEC policies environmental incidents theREACH deadline developed and rolled out 16 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development Three fatalities occurred at these operations, which are SafeWork located across 46 countries and represent a work force of approximately 110,000, compared to 8 in 2013.
We are sharing SafeWork is a Group-wide initiative that focuses on eliminating fatalities and serious injuries through encouraging life-saving people and the leading approaches and practices from behaviours and developing a better understanding of the these operations with the assets that we have identified as consequences of unsafe actions.
Our aim is to ensure that every single person working for us 13 fatalities occurred at our focus assets during 2014, down understands that they have the authority to stop work if they from 18 in 2013.
These assets are located in Democratic consider a workplace or situation unsafe.
Republic of the Congo, Zambia, Bolivia, Kazakhstan and SafeWork has identified 12 fatal hazards and developed related Ukraine, with a total workforce of around 71,000 people, protocols for addressing these hazards.
All our sites have which represents 39% of the Groups workforce.
We are reviewed and assessed their current procedures for dealing undertaking a broad range of activities to improve our with these fatal hazards, enabling each site to identify areas safety culture through the SafeWork initiative, which is for improvement.
All employees and contractors, regardless of being rolled out across the Group.
World class training function or location, are required to follow specific protocols initiatives are being implemented to support upskilling when working with fatal hazards.
By the end of 2014, 118,000 employees and contractors had undertaken awareness training on the fatal hazard protocols We believe that the commitment shown by our management and life-saving behaviours.
team, our identification and mitigation of risk, and our ability to share leading practices will improve the health We expect all our workers to take responsibility for their safety and for that of their colleagues.
Every single individual is and safety at our focus assets.
We recognise that every empowered to stop unsafe work: SafeWork or StopWork.
fatality is unacceptable, however, we believe that the reduced number of fatalities recorded in 2014 indicates that our focus on identifying and managing fatal hazards, as well as the Safety commitment and determination of our leadership is starting The health and safety of our people is our number one to show results.
We understand that eliminating fatalities priority safety is one of our five Values.
We are committed will take time and we remain committed to this goal at all to continuous improvement in all areas of health and our operations.
Our long-term goal of reducing employee and contractor We recognise that we all have responsibility for maintaining injuries continues to deliver year-on-year reductions in our 1 a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees, lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR.
Lost time incidents regardless of their location of function.
We believe that LTIs are recorded when an employee or contractor is unable a zero-harm environment is achievable and that all to work following an incident.
In 2014, our LTIFR was 1.58 occupational fatalities, diseases and injuries are preventable.
per million hours worked, a 16% improvement against 2013 and 47% improvement against our long-term goal of a 50% We take a proactive, preventative approach towards health reduction by 2016, set against the 2010 baseline LTIFR of 2.74. and safety and our aim is to establish a positive safety culture in which everyone practices their authority to stop Occupational health work if it is unsafe.
We place great emphasis on the role of Ensuring we have the correct procedures in place to the individual to take responsibility for both their own safety prevent occupational disease is an important aspect of our and that of their colleagues.
commitment to maintain safe workplaces.
The most common We are greatly saddened to report that we did not meet health hazards in our workplaces continue to be heavy loads, our goal of zero fatalities.
16 people lost their lives at our noise, silica, lead, diesel exhaust particles, acid mist and operations during the year, compared to 26 in 2013: any loss particulate matter dust containing heavy metals.
of life is unacceptable and we are determined to eliminate We are constantly assessing improvements to our fatalities across our Group.
management of occupational diseases that reflect the The two sides of our safety performance need to be diverse nature of our assets.
We have established a wide considered to fully understand where our safety challenges range of occupational disease programmes that are specific lie.
Our business is very diverse in terms of geographical to each operation.
We undertake regular risk assessments locations, working conditions, organisational cultures and of our workplaces to ensure all health risks are being workforces.
Across most of these we are seeing continuous correctly addressed.
improvement in health and safety and many of our assets have achieved best in class performance.
1 LTIFR is the total number of LTIs recorded per million working hours.
LTIs do not include Restricted Work Injuries RWI and fatalities fatalities were included until 2013.
Prior to 2014, minor LTI definition differences existed between Glencore and Xstrata in relation to the day from which an LTI was recorded.
Historic data has been restated to exclude fatalities.
17 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our people Community investment by spend % Our people are fundamental to our success, underpinning our ability to succeed and grow.
Our success relies strongly Capacity on our ability to attract, develop and retain the best talent building at every level.
We choose the best people for each position: Environment people who think and act like entrepreneurs, are willing to learn, are passionate about their work and strive to be leaders Health in their field.
We provide our people with the opportunity to Identified develop and grow their skills, expertise and experience and local or the confidence to grow their careers.
regional need We are committed to upholding the International Labour Organizations ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles Community investment by region and Rights at Work and their Core Labour Standards.
% We prohibit any form of child, forced or bonded labour at any of our operations and do not tolerate discrimination or Africa harassment.
We endeavour to have a positive and constructive Asia relationship with the unions in the locations where we operate.
Australia We treat our people fairly and with respect.
We recognise and uphold the rights of our people to a safe workplace, freedom Europe of association, collective representation, just compensation, N. America job security and opportunities for development.
S. America We believe that a diverse workforce is essential for a successful business and seek to ensure that our workforce reflects the diversity of the communities in which we operate.
as many as nine people each.
The improved prosperity We value diversity and treat employees and contractors fairly, created through the wages we pay creates ripple effects providing equal opportunities throughout the organisation.
throughout the region, resulting in further job creation.
During 2014, our workforce was made up of 17,093 16% Wherever possible, we aim to work with local suppliers of female employees, compared to 19,147 17% in 2013. goods and services and develop skills and local capacities.
Supporting our commitment to local employment, our We see this as a cost-effective way to reduce their reliance assets have programmes that support the provision of high on our operations and an important building block for value jobs for local community members.
These include development of the local economy.
apprenticeships, scholarships, training and mentoring We have invested in infrastructure and local services.
Our assets are also considering how best Our operations are frequently located in remote and to replace ex-pats with local employees as part of our underdeveloped areas, where we can share infrastructure commitment to support local socio-economic development.
such as roads, water and electricity with our host communities.
The projects that we have invested in are The number of employees and contractors decreased in 2014 to 181,349 from 203,637 in 2013: this was primarily the result available during and after the life of our operations.
of the divestment of Las Bambas during 2014.
During the year, we contributed $114 million to initiatives that benefit the communities living close to our assets.
Communities Our community development projects are in three focus The communities surrounding our operations are our areas: capacity building, including education, enterprise neighbours, employees, business partners and future development and economic diversification: health workforce.
Through our commitment to two-way dialogue and environment.
with our local communities we aim to secure a broad base of We are an EITI-supporting company and support EITIs support for our activities.
efforts to ensure greater transparency with respect to how We look to ensure that our presence adds value and a countrys natural resources are governed and the full contributes to a sustainable future for local communities, disclosure of government revenues from the extractive sector.
delivering benefits that extend beyond the life of our operations.
We achieve this through local employment, Human rights our procurement spend, investment into infrastructure We have an integral role in the communities living close development and investment in community projects.
to our operations and regard respect for human rights as fundamental to our activities.
We are committed to Our most significant impact on the regions where we are present is through employment, both directly and via upholding the human rights of our people and our local contractors.
Local employment is particularly significant in communities, including vulnerable groups such as women, developing countries, where our local employees can support indigenous people and victims of conflict.
18 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Sustainable development Our approach to respecting fundamental human rights is treated, for instance using tailing facilities or settlement aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and ponds, before discharge into public sewers or surface water.
Human Rights Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework, We are implementing new technologies to help minimise or aswell as the ILO Core Conventions.
3 Each of our operations is required to identify human rights During 2014, we withdrew 958 million m of water, a 2% risks as part of their risk assessment processes.
This slight increase reflected improved the workplace, risk of conflict, the rights of our local definitions of reporting indicators.
communities and the risk of infringement by our partners.
We are aware of the increasing regulatory pressure and societal All our operations are required to have in place grievance demand for a low-emission economy to address the global mechanisms that are accessible, accountable and fair, and climate change situation.
We play an active role in engaging that enable our stakeholders to raise concerns without fear with governments and other interested stakeholders to of recrimination.
develop strategies for reducing the impact of climate change.
We are working to mitigate the physical impacts of climate Environment change where we can and take resource efficiency into We recognise that our operations have a direct and indirect account when making operational decisions.
Wherever we impact on the environment in the regions where we operate.
operate, we seek to optimise our energy and carbon footprint.
We are committed to identifying, understanding and We actively support the development of low emission mitigating our environmental impact, with environmental technologies and prioritise renewable energy sources.
responsibility integrated into our strategic planning, We divide CO emissions reporting into three different 2 management systems and day-to-day operations.
scopes, in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Our approach to environmental management is defined We measure both the direct and indirect emissions generated by our environmental policy, which is aligned with by the operational activities, entities and facilities in which international environmental standards.
We work to minimise and mitigate any negative impact from During 2014, we emitted 23.2 million tonnes CO of Scope 1 2 our activities: we constantly review our approach and look direct emissions from the fuel we consumed.
This figure for ways to improve our performance.
We reduce our use of includes emissions from reductants used in our metallurgical resources wherever possible, including active investment in smelters and from the incineration of biomass.
It also renewable energy projects and technologies that help reduce includes CO e of methane emissions from our operations, 2 our emissions.
which is equal to around 30% of our Scope 1 emissions.
The total excludes emissions from time-chartered vessels, Our acquisitions resulted in us inheriting operations with asthese are now considered to be Scope 3 emissions.
Our recent efforts have focused on resolving these legacy issues.
We are proud We emitted 13.4 million tonnes CO of Scope 2 indirect 2 that in all cases, we have made substantial upgrades emissions, being emissions arising from our consumption without shutting down production or reducing the size of of purchased electricity, steam or heat.
emissions include emissions from a broad range of sources, including shipping and land transportation.
More details We are committed to eliminating material environmental on our Scope 3 emissions will be available in our 2014 incidents and incurring zero fines, penalties or prosecutions.
Any material environmental incidents are reported to the Board HSEC committee and, in particularly severe We do not provide normalised figures for our CO emissions 2 cases, presentations are made by operational management nor ratios of CO to production, financial results or employee 2 teams.
During 2014, our operations did not record any headcount, as we do not believe that reporting a normalised environmental incidents that were classed as major figure meaningfully contributes to an understanding of or catastrophic.
The scope and diversity of our products make a single production figure impossible to calculate Water is an essential component of our business activities.
and our financial results are impacted by commodity More than half of our operations are located in waterprices and foreign exchange rates, which are outside of our challenged areas.
We are committed to managing our control.
In addition, due to the nature of the exploration, impact on water resources responsibly.
We work to minimise development and the production cycle, our CO emissions 2 any impact on local biodiversity and communities, by donot necessarily correlate to our employee headcount.
minimising our effect on the quality and quantity of nearby bodies of water and preserving our neighbours access We report to the CDP Carbon Disclosure and Water to water.
Our mining and agricultural operations minimise their Further information on our approach to sustainability is water use and discharge wherever possible.
We reuse available on our website: www.
com sustainability and recycle as much water as we can, and waste water is
