Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability WE AIM TO ENGENDER TRUST WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND ENSURE THE COMPANY THRIVES Approach Further details on Cobhams approach to human rights can Corporate responsibility and sustainability CR&S strategy also be found in the COBC, and the RSCM can be found at is developed and implemented through the CR&S function www.
com at-a-glance which is overseen by the CR&S Committee chaired by the downloads.
The role of the function is to engage key stakeholders to identify current and emerging social and environmental Training all employees on the COBC is considered to be an threats and opportunities to the Groups business objectives effective leading measure which ensures that employees and strategic plans, monitor and measure CR&S performance understand the Groups expectations and requirements.
to drive continuous improvement and ensure compliance The incidence of material compliance breaches is with applicable laws and regulations as well as voluntary considered to be a measure of the effectiveness of the requirements e. g. codes of conduct.
Material environmental, social and governance risks and Captured in our Principal Risks opportunities are included in the CEOs papers to the Board Risk 3 Failure to comply with laws and regulations as well as through various executive committees such as the see page 37 Business Ethics and Compliance Committee and the Safety, Risk 4 Failure to embed organisational design within an Health and Environment Committee.
effective governance framework, with appropriate skills and talented employees Cobhams CR&S Strategy is designed to align with the recruited retained see page 37 Groups business model, through four key areas of focus: Striving for the highest ethical standards through 2014 performance our business ethics and compliance programmes: The Company achieved its target of 100% employee Attracting, retaining and developing highly talented training on the COBC.
and engaged employees: Providing a safe and healthy working environment: and In February 2014 the Group voluntarily contacted the Managing environmental impacts.
United States Department of Justice DoJ to inform it that Cobham had undertaken an initial internal investigation Highest ethical standards into potentially irregular sales practices concerning sales Cobham complies with relevant laws and regulatory to Asia of certain commercial, non-classified products Code of Business requirements while also acting ethically and with integrity.
manufactured by TracStar Systems Inc. a US-based Conduct training This approach is enshrined in the Cobham Code of Business operating location.
The matter has been fully investigated Conduct COBC, on which all employees receive training.
and concluded with the DoJ during the year, with no Cobham sees acting ethically as a source of potential material cost or sanction for the Group.
It is a key contributor to a high performance culture, helps meet key stakeholder As part of the integration of the Aeroflex acquisition, Target:100% expectations, protects the Groups reputation and supports Cobham is undertaking an exercise to ensure that the 2013: 100% its financial performance.
best of the Aeroflex and Cobham ethics and compliance programmes are adopted across the Group.
In addition, Cobham is in the process of adopting best practice in managing its supply chain responsibly on a risk The use of agents, distributors and value added resellers prioritised basis.
It prefers those suppliers that support continued to be subject to due diligence and approvals, responsible and sustainable business practices, including subject to well defined criteria and including appropriate human rights e. g. through the potential for conflict minerals legal review.
usage in purchased parts and components, preventing child labour and preventing discrimination.
Cobhams approach Cobham has voluntarily engaged with Transparency is set out in its Responsible Supply Chain Management International TI, an international movement dedicated Policy RSCM which is contained within the COBC.
to working with government and business, to put in place measures to tackle corruption.
This will enable the Group to benchmark its policies and practices against the TI Defence Companies Anti-Corruption Index, which is due to be published in 2015.
com 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Training on the Companys RSCM policy was also rolled out 2014 Performance Voluntary staff across its principal locations during 2014.
An initial review Cobhams voluntary employee turnover has remained turnover has identified the categories of hazardous materials, conflict below its target of 10% or less.
However, the Group intends minerals, resource efficiency and environmental protection to further improve this performance by regularly measuring as the most significant risk areas in the supply chain.
its employee engagement, commencing with a Group 6.3% wide employee engagement project designed to enhance Target: 10% Cobham in action performance and support for the Groups integrated 2013: 6.9% Cobham has transitioned the manufacture of make-to-print operating company model.
The initial steps have involved refuelling pod structures from a UK provider to a provider in an employee survey from Great Place to Work, which was India.
The Cobham Mission Systems Sector CMS utilised completed in the second half of the year.
For further details the RSCM policy and approach to identify key risks for see Cobham in action below.
supplier selection, and included mitigation actions within sourcing documents, business agreements and Cobham also believes that embracing diversity brings management governance protocols.
All vendors were business benefits as it deepens the Groups talent pool researched and audited prior to the bid process.
The for skills and capabilities and broadens its perspectives.
selected supplier is required to comply with Cobhams Cobhams overall gender diversity profile increased from RSCM policy and CMS retains full audit rights to ensure 27% female in 2013 to 28% female in 2014.
Using the the suppliers obligations are being fulfilled.
CMS continues statutory definition, which is Directors of a legal entity, to actively manage the supplier through quarterly business female senior managers increased from 13% 2013 to reviews and audits to ensure compliance requirements 16% 2014.
Under the Cobham definition, which is are met.
employees of Vice President grade and above, female Senior Managers increased from 9% 2013 to 15% 2014.
Female representation on the Board increased from 11% 2013 to 22% 2014.
The Group has focused on the implementation of its new organisational design with the strengthening of its senior management and reporting structure, and with certain key support functions now reporting into the centre.
Some 70% of the leadership roles created through the organisational design programme were sourced internally from alumni of Cobhams senior management development programme.
Cobham has continued to build on its development programmes with further expansion of the Cobham The Airbus A330 MRTT features two Cobham wing mounted 905E high potential, graduate and apprenticeship programmes.
aerial refuelling pods, with the manufacture of pod structures now Cobham also signed up to the 5% club, a UK initiative outsourced to India.
which commits employers to hiring 5% of their intake as graduates or apprentices within five years.
Looking forward The Group will continue training on the implementation In addition, Cobham has also developed and piloted of the COBC and will complete the roll out of the Groups its Institute of Leadership & Management accredited Corporate Framework to integrate it with existing programme which is designed to enhance the Groups governance policies and procedures in the former management skills and capabilities.
Talented and engaged employees Cobham in action Having talented and engaged employees supports Cobham has partnered with the Great Place to Work Cobhams ability to execute and deliver on key programmes Institute to train over 300 Executives and Senior Managers and on its growth objectives.
Cobhams approach is to in building the key components of high trust and high attract and retain employees with the right skills and performance teams: to assess the Groups human resources capabilities through strategic workforce planning, policies and practices and to conduct a Group wide competitive reward practices, diversity and inclusion employee survey.
Over 80% of Cobham employees and development of a high performance culture.
It is responded to the survey and the results were reported now utilising a streamlined management and reporting back to all employees.
Work will continue on this initiative structure, aligned with the Groups growth objectives.
through 2015 to build on and sustain engagement with employees.
Cobham sees voluntary staff turnover as a key metric for determining the effectiveness of its talent management and employee engagement approach.
Captured in our Principal Risks Risk 3 Failure to comply with laws and regulations see page 37 Risk 4 Failure to embed organisational design within an effective governance framework, with appropriate skills and talented employees Over 80% of Cobham employees participated in the Great Place recruited retained see page 37 to Work employee engagement scheme.
com Cobham plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 r u o i v a h e C B o m p Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued Looking forward 2014 performance Cobham will focus on embedding its approach to Cobham had no fatalities during 2014.
However, there has strategic workforce planning to ensure it has the right skills been an increase in the major accident incident rate in 2014 and capabilities in place.
Looking further ahead, the Group to 423 per 100,000 employee equivalents, representing a is aiming to drive functional excellence further through total of 45 work place injuries and illnesses.
Of these, 21 development of competency frameworks, established occurred in the Aviation Services Sector, which represents career path development and the building of strong a higher work place safety risk environment than the other partnerships with academia and subject matter experts.
The Group will continue to review the controls in Over time, the Company will identify its changing place and to ensure that health and safety issues are being requirements for core capabilities and build a pipeline of fully addressed.
talent able to respond to current and future needs.
Cobham will also continue to invest in its development programmes, 33 of 38 of the Groups business units achieved the internal providing all of its line managers with the opportunity SHE management standard targets set for them and the to participate in an accredited, in-house certificate remainder are expected to achieve these in 2015, with in management.
management systems at all principal locations expected to be of an equivalent standard to OHSAS18001 by the end Initially the Group intends to focus its diversity and inclusion of 2015.
This excludes the recently acquired Aeroflex sites, approach on establishing geographic councils, setting where work is commencing to assess and improve their policies and associated metrics.
Major accident incident rate Safe working environment An organisational design project was undertaken for Cobham strives to provide a safe working environment for the SHE function across the Group.
As part of this, SHE employees, contractors, and visitors.
Cobham recognises professionals have commenced being assessed and 423 that a good health and safety record drives an enhanced development plans initiated to close gaps identified.
production performance and excellence in other areas of Target: 400 its operations.
Cobham in action Aspiration: zero Several principal sites have undertaken live emergency 2013: 326 The Groups approach is to promote a safety culture response simulations to ensure that their response standards per 100,000 employees that strives to minimise injuries and illnesses in the are in line with best practice in business continuity.
Exercises workplace and to promote employee wellbeing.
The have been undertaken in conjunction with local fire Group consistently applies a set of ten Safety, Health authorities with positive results and good feedback.
and Environment SHE management standards that There are also live simulations planned for 2015. are mapped directly to OHSAS18001, an international health and safety standard, and to ISO14001, an SHE best practice is more generally being shared across the international environmental standard, and a set of 12 Group, with health and safety events held in North America, technical standards that address common SHE Europe and Australia.
These have involved over 100 SHE management processes and risks.
practitioners from across the Group.
Aviation safety is Cobhams most significant safety risk.
In terms of workplace risks, manual handling, repetitive strain and slip and trip injuries are the most common safety risks.
Cobham captures numerous leading and lagging workplace safety indicators to measure its safety performance.
Management is focused on driving the correct behaviours through its lagging indicators while safety performance such as fatalities and the major accident incidence rate the number of cases with three or more lost work days per 100,000 full time employee equivalents demonstrate the effectiveness of the Groups approach.
Cobham strives for excellence in safety, health and environment Further details on Cobhams Group Safety, Health Looking forward and Environment Policy can be found at The objective for 2015 is to close all gaps in meeting 2014 www.
com at-a-glance SHE management standard targets.
Over the medium to longer term, the Groups intention is for Captured in our Principal Risks all its principal and aviation locations to mature their safety Risk 3 Failure to comply with laws and regulations management systems and certify them to the OHSAS see page 37 18001 international standard.
Risk 4 Failure to implement organisational design within an effective governance framework, with appropriate skills and talented employees recruited retained see page 37 Risk 7 Significant business interruption risk see page 39 Cobham plc www.
com 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 e t e n c e y d u t i t t A STRATEGIC REPORT Managing environmental impacts Management systems at most principal locations, but Facility energy Cobham recognises that its operations, activities, products excluding the recently acquired Aeroflex sites, are now intensity reduction and services have an impact on the environment and that of an equivalent standard to ISO14001.
All principal the environment also impacts the business.
The Group manufacturing locations have maintained the highly promotes an environmentally responsible culture, to comply protected risk status through compliance with insurers 1% with increasing environmental legislation and customer standards, which enables Cobham to mitigate risks Target: 10% requirements, to reduce operating costs and to minimise associated with extreme weather events such as flooding.
2013: 1% business interruption in its operations and those of its critical suppliers.
Cobham in action Cobham participates in the CDP climate change survey.
In addition to aviation fuel use, energy consumption CDP is backed by over 800 institutional investors and greenhouse gas emissions are Cobhams most representing in excess of US$95 trillion in assets, giving significant environmental impacts.
The Group seeks to investors access to a global source of year-on-year manage its environmental impact by using a series of information that supports long term objective analysis, measures including: evidence and insight into companies greenhouse gas emissions and strategies for managing climate change risks.
Transitioning to fuel efficient aircraft where it is This survey ranks companies in relation to both their appropriate to do so.
For example, the Aviation disclosure and performance in carbon management.
Services business in Australia has introduced the Cobham has steadily improved its rating since 2009.
Embraer 190, a next generation aircraft, and the first In 2014 it was placed in the top 10% of nearly 2,000 of its type to be engaged in the closed charter fly-in, participating companies worldwide.
fly-out market there: Investing in technology to reduce the size, weight and power consumption of products e. g. satellite ASICs.
For further details see the CEOs Statement on page 10: Reducing facility level greenhouse gas emissions through energy efficiency measures, including: lighting, heating, ventilation and air conditioning upgrades, sensor lighting and destratification fan installations at various sites across the world: Cobham achieved the title of CDP Climate Performance Building business continuity and effective emergency Leader in 2014 response planning, to be prepared for adverse weather events and natural disasters.
Looking forward Cobham is focused on its foundation of operational The Group measures a number of environmental metrics excellence by driving a continuous improvement culture.
further information can be found at http: www.
It will also be making operational efficiency improvements cobhamsustainability.
at former Aeroflex locations, with a number of integrations However, the Groups most significant environmental also planned.
These actions should contribute to a impacts stem from its greenhouse gas emissions in decreasing energy intensity from its facilities over the operating contract aviation services and coming years.
The Group measures its aviation and non-aviation greenhouse gas emissions and obtains third party limited assurance on this data.
Captured in our Principal Risks Risk 3 Failure to comply with laws and regulations see page 37 Risk 4 Failure to implement organisational design within an effective governance framework, with appropriate skills and talented employees recruited retained see page 37 Risk 7 Significant business interruption risk see page 39 2014 performance Cobhams overall energy and carbon footprint grew in 2014 due to Aviation Services success in winning new contracts, leading to additional flying activity over which Cobham may have no direct control to influence aircraft type or flight plans e. g. QantasLink.
The Aeroflex acquisition has also increased the size of the Group and so added to its footprint.
Overall, the energy intensity of the Groups facilities increased by 1%.
However, it decreased by 8% if Aeroflex sites are excluded, slightly short of the annual energy intensity Mwh m reduction target, which the Group set for itself, at 10%.
Further details on the Groups emissions and energy usage are provided in the Directors Report see pages 66 and 67. www.
com Cobham plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
