Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Our People to attract the best people from the West Country and Wales.
We Our people are an integral part of hope that initiatives such as these will enable us to attract talent JUST EATs ongoing success.
They are that fits with the JUST EAT culture and can also be our leaders responsible for helping to design, and innovators of the future.
implement and deliver on our strategic Losing the Groups culture is considered a principal risk objectives, as well as developing new see page 36.
Whilst the Group has been on a growth journey initiatives to enable us to maintain and processes and controls sufficient to manage this have been our growth.
in place and operating effectively, there is no doubt that the listed environment creates a new dynamic that we are We strive to maintain a high performance, entrepreneurial consciously managing.
As part of this, we launched the JUST EAT Academy in 2013.
Its flagship course, the JUST EAT Management Stars Please refer to the Corporate Social Responsibility section on JEMS programme was fully rolled out in 2014.
This is page 40 for further details on our employee policies which multi-tiered, open to all levels of management and aimed at enable us to attract and retain the highest calibre of employees.
As we transition towards becoming a large company we have started to focus more on One of the highlights of the Groups calendar is the annual staff development and career planning, including formalising World Party.
Every eligible employee is invited to spend the day our annual review and development process.
with their colleagues from around the world.
The day consists of a CEO update, Executive Team briefings and awards to celebrate As well as developing our existing staff, we seek to attract the individual and team successes.
This is combined with team best talent in the market.
We are introducing a new graduate building and social activities to ensure the cultural spirit known development programme starting in 2015.
We have also opened as the JUST EAT JAM that has driven our success to date is our technology site in Bristol, with support from Invest Bristol & reinforced and spread.
Bath and are building a relationship with the University of Bristol How this links to our business model See page 15 24 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
