Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Corporate Social Responsibility We conduct an externally managed annual employee satisfaction At JUST EAT we recognise our wider survey in order to gain insight into our peoples opinions on responsibility to manage and conduct working at JUST EAT.
We use this insight to continuing making our business in a socially responsible and JUST EAT great place to work.
We have used this external consultancy company for two years, and have been listed ethical manner.
in the top quartile of the 250 companies they survey.
We are progressing with a comprehensive review of the Groups Supporting graduates Corporate Social Responsibility policies, with the aim to integrate Over the course of the year we have been developing new this as part of our broader corporate values and strategy.
graduate development programmes which are due to commence in September 2015.
The roles will include time spent in sales, People policies operations, marketing, finance and HR, gaining exposure to all The Groups employment policies are designed to ensure that the parts of the business.
Group is able to attract the best people from all sectors of the communities in which it operates, enabling JUST EAT to compete Diversity at the highest level.
We value diversity in the workplace and are We maintain consistent and transparent diversity policies committed to providing equality of opportunity to all current and across all our markets.
We firmly believe that career opportunity, potential employees.
recognition and reward should be determined by a persons capabilities and achievement, not their age, sex, race, religion Our focus on advanced technologies requires a high level of or nationality.
technical expertise, and management works closely with vendors to ensure that employees are trained appropriately.
We are Our policy for the employment of disabled persons is to provide committed to building an environment where each employee can equal opportunities compared with other employees, having fulfil their potential and encourage continuous training and skill regard to the maintenance of a safe working environment.
Our multi-tiered in-house JUST EAT Management Stars programme JEMS is aimed at identifying and developing Gender our leaders of the future.
We also create a training schedule A breakdown of our Board, senior managers and all employees each year in order to meet our wider employee development by gender at 31 December 2014 is provided below: needs as identified during their personal development reviews.
External suppliers create bespoke courses based on these needs Number % and individuals can choose to sign up online in order to manage Male Female Male Female their own development.
Directors 8 1 89% 11% Senior managers 27 4 87% 13% Our personnel practices ensure that every employee, wherever All employees 901 584 61% 39% they work, whatever their role, is treated equally, fairly and respectfully at all times.
Adherence to health and safety We have determined that those members of management within standards ensures that our people are properly protected and the General Management Team GMT meet the definition of a cared for, wherever they operate.
To support our commitment to open communication, we discuss At JUST EAT we remain committed to gender diversity and with employees, through briefings and an international portal, acknowledge the Davies report recommendations that at least matters likely to affect employees interests.
Information on 25% of Board members should be female by 2015.
We firmly matters of concern is given through notices, meetings and believe in recruiting the right people but recognise we must reports, including information to help employees achieve a progress a longer-term succession plan process to improve the common awareness of the factors affecting the performance gender balance in senior management positions.
We strive to achieve this whilst continuing to maintain a fun and energetic environment.
The Groups whistleblowing policy is available to all employees on the Company intranet.
This details how employees can raise concerns surrounding risk, malpractice or wrongdoing that may affect our employees, consumers, restaurants, or which may be of public interest.
40 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Culture Greenhouse gas emissions The JUST EAT culture goes hand-in-hand with the success of our Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions for the financial year ending business, helping our people around the world work together 31 December 2014 have been measured as required under the harmoniously to grow the business, whilst remaining a fun and Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Account and energetic place to work.
Our culture is driven by four key values Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013.
There is no known as The JAM: being frank, innovate, passionate and comparative data as this is the first year for the Group to present working as a team.
It governs all that we do, and we believe its such information.
The main activities which release GHG include important that our people live and work by our values as this is usage of purchased electricity, waste disposal, business travel, what makes JUST EAT a unique, engaging and fun place to work.
usage of vehicles, and staff commuting.
Frank: We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Listen carefully Reporting standards revised edition, data gathered to fulfil the Challenge honestly requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and Laugh about it afterwards emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 to calculate the disclosures.
Passionate: tCO e 2 Love what you do Emissions from operations scope 1 1,154 Push yourself Emissions from energy usage scope 2 1,058 Inspire others by your example Emissions from employee travel scope 3 432 Innovative: Total 2,644 Try new things Intensity ratio tCO e m 16.84 2 Create the future Keep improving Scope 1 comprises vehicle emissions in relation to operational visits to restaurants.
Working as a team: Help each other Scope 2 comprises our energy consumption in buildings.
Scope 3 comprises other business travel.
Share success Put the team before the player Intensity ratio Community We have chosen to present our total emissions in relation to revenue in order to represent how our emissions are impacted In 2014 we chose Starlight to be our nominated charity partner.
Starlight is a charity who helps grant wishes for seriously and by the growth of the business.
They also provide entertainment, fun, laughter and distraction in every childrens hospital ward and Environmental policies We are striving to make our ways of working as environmentally hospice throughout the UK.
All of their activities are aimed at distracting children from the pain, fear and isolation they can friendly as possible.
We are now using paper which has been made from agricultural waste rather than from trees, which has a often feel as a result of their illness.
lower carbon footprint in transportation when compared to recycled paper.
A total of 93% of funds raised by Starlight are put back into charitable spending, which was one of the factors used to select them.
Since becoming our nominated charity, employees at Approval of the Strategic Report JUST EAT have helped raise over 7,000 which has been Pages 1 to 41 of the Annual Report form the Strategic Report.
matched by the Company and has gone towards granting wishes.
On behalf of the Board Human rights issues Whilst the Group has no specific policy in place regarding human David Buttress rights, we have an equal opportunities and a Code of Ethics CEO policy that governs how all employees, officers, consultants, 16 March 2015 contractors, volunteers, interns, casual workers and agency workers are treated.
We remain mindful of the spirit of any regulation when conducting our business.
