Corporate responsibility Responsibility leader Silver Top 10 distinction in the RobecoSAM in BITCs Corporate Responsibility Sustainability Yearbook, Index the UKs leading ranking us amongst global benchmark for corporate Dow Jones Sustainability responsibility Index Leaders Our performance Times Top 50 85 per cent Employer for Women of people in the UK think RoyalMail is animportant part 1 oflocal communities 50 million 3.5 per cent donated to over 975 charities reduction in UK carbon emissions since our Payroll Giving Scheme compared with 2012-13 was launched in 1989 1 Ipsos MORI Corporate Image Survey 2013.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 32 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Royal Mail makes a major contribution to the UKs social and economic infrastructure.
Asthe designated provider of the Universal Service, we play a vital role in connecting millions of customers, businesses, organisations and communities including those in the most remote rural areas.
Our corporate responsibility strategy is an integral part of realising our core strategic priorities.
The objectives at the heart of our business and corporate responsibility strategies are the same to ensure a sound and sustainable Universal Service and to generate sustainable shareholder value.
The links between our corporate responsibility aims and our core strategic priorities are shown Our people in the table below.
Employee engagement is one of the key drivers in our business success.
Our Being a Employee Survey helps us identify the areas successful Managing Being parcels the decline customer where we are doing well and those we need Corporate responsibility objective business in letters focused to improve.
This year, we achieved an employee engagement score of 54, up from Delivering economic and social benefit 50 in 2012-13. to the communities we serve 3 3 3 See KPIs pages 18 to 19 Driving colleague advocacy of the Group and its community role 3 3 As noted in our KPI table on page 18, we take Managing the environmental impacts of action to ensure we are continuously improving employee engagement by: our business and operations 3 3 Keeping people informed of our business strategy and their role in delivering it.
Delivering our transformation responsibly 3 3 3 During the year, we conducted almost Communicating our management of corporate 60Town Hall meetings, two Group Forums responsibilities openly and transparently 3 3 conferences for our most senior managers : and our Operations and Modernisation forum for approximately 4,000 operations We report progress against our corporate In GLS, we are aiming to expand our customer managers: responsibility objectives under the areas of base in Europe as we seek to build our Customer: People: Community: Suppliers presence in the growing B2C segment.
Supporting managers in the creation and andEnvironment.
implementation of local action plans, based We have continued to progress in 2013-14 on feedback from the annual Employee Measuring our progress exceeding our regulatory Quality of Service Survey: and We aim to be independently rated as one of targets for First Class and Second Class mail, the most responsible companies in the UK.
and achieving a sixper cent reduction in Updating our employees through the Royal 2 Business in the Communitys Corporate customer complaints.
Maintaining this Mail in-house newspaper Courier, Royal Responsibility Index is one good way of performance and our customers trust Mail TV RMTV and our other digital and measuring our performance.
In the 2014 is a key strategic priority.
This Index, Royal Mail was ranked one of the top includes regular updates on our financial Weseek feedback from both business and ten most responsible companies in the UK.
results, business developments and consumer customers to help us to continually competitor activity.
We achieved a Silver distinction in the improve our performance.
Our business 2013 RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability customer satisfaction score and Quality of GLS also undertakes targeted engagement Yearbook, the assessment that forms Service standards are detailed in the CEO activities.
For example in GLS Belgium, the the foundation of the Dow Jones review on page 11.
As well as improved management team visits each depot at least Sustainability Index DJSI.
We rank performance in these areas, in our second full once a year to engage with employees: while amongst the top four companies globally year of gathering consumer customer in GLS Poland, 360-degree feedback has in our industry: Transportation and satisfaction scores, we have also seen a steady been used to inform development plans and Transportation Infrastructure.
increase from 68 in 2012-13 to 70 in 2013-14. training requirements.
Our customers In December 2013, we agreed in principle a We measure our employees views on how Being customer focused is one of our strategic ground-breaking new agreement on an customer focused our products and services objectives see page 16.
Every person and Agenda for Growth with our main union, the really are.
We use our annual Employee business in the UK is a potential customer.
It is about improving industrial relations, Survey to gauge what they think about key the UKs Universal Service provider, Royal Mail creating a can-do culture and a joint aspects of the customer experience.
This year, can deliver to more than 29 million addresses, commitment to delivering business success.
we achieved a customer focus score of 69 across the UK, six-days-a-week, for a compared with 65 last year.
See KPIs pages 18 to 19 2 We also provide a detailed annual disclosure on customer complaints to our regulator, which is publicly available.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 33 Corporate responsibility continued The agreement includes legally-binding terms policy to provide opportunities for our companies have 17.3 per cent female 5 covering employee pay, protections and employees based on an individuals representation on their boards.
industrial stability as well as a programme performance and skills, with no discrimination At senior management level, 26 per cent of 3 of work to help deliver change at pace in against protected characteristics.
employees are female, compared to 15 per operations.
The industrial stability framework We are a signatory to the Governments cent in operational functions.
We are sets out a new approach to resolving Think, Act, Report initiative.
We work with committed to improving the gender balance workplace issues.
Business in the Communitys BITC across all areas of the business.
In February 2014, over 94 per cent of CWU Opportunity Now and Race for Opportunity Royal Mails ethnic profile is representative of members voted in favour of the proposed programmes, which promote best practice 6 the UK workforce.
Around ten per cent of our Agenda for Growth.
57 per cent of eligible in equal opportunities.
employees declare themselves to be from members voted in the ballot.
In late 2013, we established a Diversity ethnic minority backgrounds.
However, we Training and career development Council to progress and monitor our diversity recognise we need to improve representation Ensuring our people have the skills they performance.
Chaired by the Company of ethnic minorities amongst our need to do the job is also fundamental to Secretary, it includes the Chief Operating management population.
Our newlythe success of the business.
Officer, Group HR Director, frontline established Diversity Council will seek to employees and representatives from the address this.
We make a significant investment in our CWU and Unite.
The Council met for the learning and development programmes.
In As a Disability Two Ticks employer, Royal first time in March 2014.
Its progress 2013-14, almost 50,000 colleagues attended Mail welcomes job applications from will be regularly reviewed by the Chief instructor-led training in the UK, with 90,000 candidates with a disability or health Executives Committee.
colleagues attending web-based training condition.
We have reviewed our recruitment sessions.
Topics covered include: improving Our existing Gender Diversity Steering Group processes to ensure a fair approach for the customer experience, safety, compliance will continue to support our gender strategy.
people with disabilities and we interview all and management and leadership.
It will report to the Diversity Council.
Since its disabled applicants who meet the minimum inception in 2010, the Steering Group has criteria for a role.
Additionally, the case study Examples from across GLS include the GLS Italy developed policies and initiatives to attract on page 37 provides insight into our Academy, where tailored training curricula were new talent and support female colleagues partnership with disability charity Remploy.
developed in 2013-14 for different functions career progression.
Through this work we and responsibilities.
GLS Germany offers a We make reasonable adjustments to the have achieved external recognition.
three-year bachelor degree programme in workplace to support employees who become logistics or information management.
In 2013, we were named as one of BITCs Top disabled.
We also provide training as 10 Private Sector Organisations for Gender in required, for example in assistive technology Promoting diversity the UK.
We also achieved a place in the Times and software.
Royal Mail employs a diverse mix of people Top 50 Employers for Women in 2014. who reflect the communities in which we We introduced deaf awareness training work, and the customers we serve.
We are At our Board and senior management grades, workshops for hearing impaired employees, committed to being an equal opportunities we have relatively high gender diversity see their colleagues and managers.
We also focus employer and we proactively seek to recruit table below.
At Board level, 36 per cent of on ensuring those with disabilities are not 4 people from socially excluded groups.
It is our members are female.
On average, FTSE 100 discriminated against through the provision of 7 UKPIL GLS Gender distribution number of people Female Male Female Male 4 Royal Mail plc Board 4 7 Senior Management 694 1,789 36 243 Management 1,715 6,950 2,739 2,354 Administrative 1,700 1,341 Operational 19,011 115,274 1,924 6,515 3 Race, colour, ethnic or national origin, nationality, disability, marital or civil partner status, sexual orientation, pregnancy or maternity, age, religion or belief including political opinion in Northern Ireland, sex and gender reassignment.
4 Jan Babiak resigned from the Board with immediate effect on 29April 2014.
This statistic is inclusive of her being a Director during the year ended 30March 2014.
5 The Female FTSE Board Report 2013, Cranfield University School of Management.
6 Labour market status by ethnic group, ONS, January 2014.
7 Includes Heritage Trustees not included in the people numbers on page 96.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 34 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information anti-discrimination workshops.
Approximately 8 six per cent of our employees have a disability.
Safety The safety and wellbeing of our workforce is an enduring priority for us.
Our safety goal is to reduce the number of accidents to zero, a commitment driven throughout the business by a specific safety KPI in our Corporate Balanced Scorecard.
Lost time accidents per 100,000 work hours 1.79 1.47 1.17 0.77 201 1 2012 2013 2014 We continue to make progress driving down accident rates.
We achieved a Lost Time 9 Accident Frequency Rate of 0.77 in 2013-14 corporations.
For the 2013-14 financial year, in areas of need across the UK.
During the compared with 1.17 in 2012-13. our impact totalled 10.5 billion in terms of year, Royal Mail also provided 136,000 in value added, made up of direct and indirect matched giving and grants schemes to See KPIs pages 18 to 19 contributions to the wider UK economy.
support employees fundraising for all other We strive to improve our safety performance This includes our contribution through charities and good causes.
It is with great regret GLS uses its services to support areas of Our approach to tax is published on page 36. that we report four people died in connection need across Europe.
This has included: with our activities in the UK in the past year.
Cebr research commissioned in 2013 also delivering organic breakfast boxes to pupils in All fatalities were associated with road traffic found that we make a significant contribution Frankfurt: collecting Christmas presents for accidents with our vehicles.
We liaise closely to social inclusion through the employment refugee children in Austria: and collecting and with the relevant authorities and undertake and earnings we bring to some of the UKs delivering aid supplies in Sassari, Italy, our own detailed investigations to establish poorer regions.
We offer jobs where there are following the devastation of Cyclone Cleopatra the root cause of each accident and, where generally fewer job opportunities.
On average in November 2013. possible, to determine what lessons can be across the UK, one in every 200 employees Our suppliers learned.
Findings are discussed at Board level works for Royal Mail.
and communicated across the Group.
In the UK we contribute around 2.5 billion Supporting good causes annually procuring goods and services from We continue to take actions to improve safety.
In 2013-14, Royal Mail contributed over 6,300suppliers.
We have appointed a Head of Health and 10 9.8million directly to charities, good Safety at Parcelforce Worldwide to develop We are committed to ensuring that our causes and schemes for disadvantaged a safety leadership culture.
We also ran our suppliers maintain high standards of social, groups.
We also supported 3.3 million of annual Road Safety Week campaign in ethical and environmental conduct.
We expect colleague fundraising for charities and good November 2013, raising safety awareness suppliers to adhere to our Responsible causes across the UK.
through videos, posters, RMTV and managers Procurement Code of Conduct.
Topics ranged from seatbelts and In early 2014, we celebrated reaching is based on the UN Global Compacts ten 25years and 50 million in charitable stationary objects to driver distractions and principles around good human rights, labour winter driving.
donations through our payroll giving scheme.
and environmental practice, and antiThe generosity of our people has been corruption.
In addition, we encourage them to Our communities recognised by two National Payroll Giving set objectives to improve their performance in Our economic impact, as a major employer Excellence Awards and a Platinum Payroll social, environmental and ethical issues.
In and purchaser of goods and services, is Giving Quality Mark Award.
2013, we became the first company globally significant.
The Centre for Economics and to be awarded the Chartered Institute of Business Research Ltd Cebr, commissioned We also met our target to raise 2 million Purchasing & Supplys platinum standard for by Royal Mail, has carried out a complete for our Charity of the Year, Prostate Cancer procurement and supply chain management.
Royal Mail matched money raised by economic impact assessment of UKPIL.
Cebr found that we made the seventh largest colleagues, penny-for-penny.
This will fund at least 34 specialist prostate cancer nurses contribution to the UK economy of all UK 8 Percentage of employees identifying themselves as having a disability in the 2014 Employee Survey.
9 The number of UKPIL employee, work related accidents resulting in an absence on a subsequent day or shift per 100,000 hours worked.
10 Includes our mandated commitments to Articles for the Blind and BPMA totalling 6.1 million.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 35 Corporate responsibility continued Our environment Our Taxation Principles Our Environment Policy Statement We aim to minimise the environmental impact Royal Mail makes a significant tax We commit to: of our business operations.
Managing and contribution to public finances and we take reducing our impact in a responsible manner Comply with all relevant legislation, a fair and reasonable approach to tax.
will help us save costs, compete more regulations and other voluntary effectively and deliver a good service to commitments: Royal Mails head office is in the UK our customers.
and our parent Company is and will Prevent pollution incidents and During the year, the Chief Executives remain a UK tax resident company.
manage our environmental impacts Committee reviewed our environment through an environmental Royal Mail will comply with applicable strategy.
We reconfirmed our targets for management system which aligns with tax rules, regulations and disclosure carbon emissions and waste.
We also ISO14001: requirements in all territories in which reconfirmed our main environmental focus areas, namely climate, waste, water, we operate.
We will not engage in Seek ways to continue to improve our biodiversity and customers and suppliers.
environmental performance through We published a new group-wide Environment clear measurement and management Royal Mail will, where it is responsible Policy to strengthen our approach.
Our Policy of our impacts, investment in and appropriate to do so, take steps to Statement adjacent sets out our approach to technology and employee engagement.
reduce our tax liabilities within the environmental issues in our operations.
A full This will be delivered in partnership laws of the countries in which Group version of the Policy can be accessed online at: with World Class Mail, Royal Mail companies operate.
com responsibility policies Groups comprehensive programme for properly available allowances, The table below sets out our Group Scope 1 continual improvement: deductions, reliefs, incentives, and Scope 2 carbon dioxide equivalent C0 e 2 exemptions and credits where it is Ensure our employees are fully emissions for 2013-14. beneficial to do so.
engaged with our programme of Our target is to achieve a 20 per cent reduction activity and act in a responsible in our UKPIL emissions including Scopes 1, 2 manner: and and 3 by 2020-21, compared to a 200405 baseline.
We achieved a 3.5per cent reduction Work with Government, industry in our UK carbon footprint in 2013-14, partners, environmental organisations generating around 705,200 tonnes compared and others to learn, share and promote 12 with 730,800 tonnes in 2012-13.
We are on environmental best practice and track to achieve our long-term target.
We diverted 71 per cent of waste from landfill last year, achieving our 2014-15 target of 70per cent one year ahead of schedule.
We did this by raising awareness amongst our employees of the importance of separating waste and by making recycling easy.
We also recorded a reduction of 6.5 per cent in our use of water during the year.
We have completed water footprint assessments at our top 50water consuming sites and will use the resulting recommendations to further develop our strategy and drive efficiencies.
In GLS, environmental management and performance is driven through the ThinkGreen initiative an overview is provided in the case study on page 37.
11,13 2013-14 C0 e Emissions by Scope 000 tonnes Total UKPIL GLS 2 Scope 1 473.1 457.6 15.5 Scope 2 149.7 132.6 17.1 TOTAL 622.8 590.2 32.6 Tonnes CO e per 1 million revenue 65.9 2 11 Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions CO e have been calculated in accordance with the UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 version.
Data has been 2 consolidated according to the financial control approach.
We have reported all material Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for which we consider ourselves responsible and exclude immaterial sources such as fugitive emissions from air conditioning in owned vehicles.
12 CO e emissions for 2012-13 have been restated from 746,500 tonnes, in accordance with revised Defra emission factors.
2 13 CO e emissions have been assured by EY.
2 Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 36 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Case study Case study Remploy and the First Shot GLS THINKGREEN programme We have been a national partner of disability charity Remploy since 2008, working together to provide jobs and placements for people with disabilities.
During 2013-14, around 300 people with disabilities started working at Royal Mail as a result of this partnership.
We are pleased to report that in April 2014, just after year end, we reached a significant milestone: Royal Mail has now provided employment to 2,000 people through the partnership.
We are one of only three organisations to have supported this number of Remploy people into work.
Our Group HR Director is on the Board of Trustees of the Business Disability Forum.
Through this we became aware of, and took, the opportunity to extend our Remploy partnership by committing to support at least 40 people made redundant by the closure of Remploy factories across the country.
We have developed a programme of placements, providing participants with the opportunity to learn new skills in order to support them into new roles.
By the end of April 2014, more than 40 people had applied to be a part of the scheme.
Human rights We are committed to upholding human rights both internally and externally to the business.
We commit to obeying the laws, rules and regulations of every country in which we operate.
In addition, we respect and support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Fundamental Conventions, covering freedom of association, the abolition of forced labour, equality and the elimination of child labour.
Our commitments and expectations both for ourselves and for our suppliers are set out in our Corporate Responsibility Policy and our Responsible In 2008, GLS launched its ThinkGreen environmental initiative to Procurement Code of Conduct coordinate and actively promote environmental activities.
com responsibility programme has three key aims: to use resources responsibly: policies.
reduce emissions: and optimise waste management.
Key initiatives to help GLS achieve these objectives include: modernising the fleet This Strategic report was approved by the and buildings, optimising transport planning and implementing local Board on 6 June 2014 green measures.
Initiatives range from tree planting in Hungary to a carbon neutral shipping service in Germany.
A network of 25 environmental representatives helps integrate the ThinkGreen vision and promote best practice across the Company.
They have supported the implementation of the ISO14001 Emily Pang environmental management system EMS across 17 countries.
Company Secretary ThinkGreen is also the driving force behind the rollout of GLS eco-depots.
Constructed using recyclable materials and making use of heat pumps, rainwater harvesting and photovoltaic cells, the eco-depots have reduced energy and water consumption, meaning a reduced environmental impact as well as reduced business costs.
GLS opened three new eco-depots during 2013-14, at Habay and Nivelles in Belgium and Steinabrckl in Austria.
This brings the total number of eco-depots in GLS to 15.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 37
