Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements The Group is well placed to meet the requirements of the Food Information Regulations by the December 2014 deadline with over 40 per cent of labels already compliant.
Customer focus on the environment and sustainability has grown and the Groups environmental aspirations are being realigned to meet the common shared goals.
The environmental section Greenthinking of the Group website, www.
co. uk, will be updated to reflect and report on these targets.
Sustainability Progress against Cranswicks 2020 targets to reduce its carbon footprint remains on track.
Cranswick has now appointed a new Group Environment Manager, The additional three sites incorporated in the figures increase the who reports into the Executive and CSR Committees, and who is overall total by 4.7 per cent to 78,500 tonnes.
responsible for a coordinated response to the many opportunities and challenges in this area.
As well as driving environmental initiatives at The relative carbon footprint, a measure of the carbon emitted per site level, there is an increasing external interface with stakeholders tonne of production, continues its downward trend, 6.9 per cent down including the Environment Agency and other legislative bodies, like-for-like and 3.5 per cent down for the extended Group.
Against neighbours, customers, suppliers and investors.
the Groups 2020 target of a 30 per cent decrease against the 2010 baseline it has already achieved a 26 per cent reduction.
These targets Carbon footprint will be reviewed and refined in the light of the performance to date.
The carbon footprint, expressed as a tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e, has been calculated every year since 2008 and is an This reflects increasing efforts at site level to improve energy 2 aggregated total of the individual site figures.
It includes all site energy, efficiencies and control f-gas losses through investment in new systems f-gas usage and waste.
It is calculated using DEFRAs guidelines and and improved maintenance.
standard set of conversion factors for Company reporting.
Following this years revision in the factor for electricity conversion, the Group The Company accepts that there is a requirement to disclose the figures back to 2010 the baseline for our environmental targets in the carbon footprint separately in the following categories: Environmental Policy have been recalculated to ensure comparability of annual progress.
Emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide from: i combustion of fuel and operation of facilities: and Kingston Foods, Riverside and Yorkshire Baker figures have been ii purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
included in the Group data for 2013 for the first time and are reported alongside like-for-like figures.
The way the business is set up makes it impracticable to distinguish between the two categories: however the bulk of the emissions would Despite an increase in production of 7 per cent, the Groups absolute be from electricity and gas, which are monitored.
