CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Cranswick takes its ethical responsibilities to employees, customers, Shareholders, suppliers, producers and the environment very seriously.
The Company recognises that a balanced and committed approach to all aspects of corporate social responsibility CSR will bring benefits to each of the Company stakeholders and will strengthen its business position and credentials to facilitate future sustainable growth and development.
The Company continues to look at CSR across the business to facilitate the recognition of best practice and shared learning leading to the development of a Group Corporate Responsibility Policy which clearly defines its core values and aspirations.
To further progress this process a Group CSR committee was set up during the year chaired by the Finance Director and consisting of key people across the functions of HR, Health and Safety, Environment and Technical.
People Cranswick is committed to introducing, developing and maintaining the key systems and processes required to underpin the effective delivery of its employment strategy across the business.
The Company seeks to integrate the benefits of people management Cranswick is consistently developing its succession planning through into its culture and the Group Human Resources HR Manager ensures talent management programmes in conjunction with first line that these are consistently applied across all the sites.
manager and senior line manager training, to prepare its teams for the challenges of the future and create sustainable business value.
Cranswick has undertaken to further develop its HR strategy this year and the people plan has been incorporated in to the CSR and business The business continues to be committed to engaging with the local strategy to underpin the vision and purpose of the company going community via youth employment initiatives including sponsoring forward.
Cranswick aims for its people to be the best in the industry awards for apprenticeships and has been unique in setting up and and in order to achieve this it is committed to developing a delivering a butchery apprenticeship scheme at its site in Preston, multi-skilled, inspired, empowered and motivated workforce.
The training scheme now has 17 young people working at the site with a view to becoming skilled butchers at the end of their The HR strategy includes CSR as part of its vision and values, and will training.
In addition to this a number of sites also have engineering implement a pattern of planned activities to ensure the attraction and apprenticeships in place.
retention of talented individuals who have key core skills that will aid the achievement of the long-term business goals and objectives.
This Health and wellbeing are key to creating a happy and engaging working in turn will enable improved performance across the Group.
environment and Cranswick has run a variety of initiatives including drop-in clinics with health professionals, healthy eating cookery The business has chosen to give its employees a meaningful voice, demonstrations, charitable bike rides and offering free fruit which means that they have the channels through which to put to employees.
forward their views via Works Councils or union membership, and that they will be communicated with effectively or have role models with Ethical standards are high within the Company and we employ the whom they can identify.
All areas now have a forum in place where only International Register of Certified Auditors IRCA registered employees have a worker representative who sits on a committee on Internal Social Systems Auditor in the UK using systems that have been a regular basis, and who is able to air the views of their colleagues.
On developed by the business.
Audits are carried out annually of all sites some sites this may also be a union representative.
Employees are and Cranswick is a member of Supplier Ethical Data Exchange SEDEX.
given the opportunity to feel a greater sense of purpose and are seen Cranswick has been at the forefront of best practice in conducting as productive and valuable stakeholders in the business.
A staff survey annual ethical audits both at its own sites and those of its labour has delivered positive actions from the Group and a variety of initiatives providers.
Performance is judged against the Gangmasters Licensing have been implemented which have aided the trust and engagement Act 2004, the Ethical Trading Initiative and retailer expectations.
of employees with the business.
The focus moving forward will be targeted at ensuring that ethical standards are being maintained within our supply chain and we are The Group is committed to implementing a training and development optimistic that, given our past history for efficiency in this area, this will strategy that articulates the workforce capabilities, skills or be a successful initiative.
competencies and that ensures a sustainable, successful business.
Young people continue to join the business on the graduate Encouraging the principles of equality and diversity are key to the programme and a number of placement students have also been successful and inclusive culture that lies at the heart of Cranswick.
sponsored through their final year at university with the promise of Regular training is provided for all employees, reiterating the a role with the company when they have completed their education.
importance of equal opportunities and best practice behaviours.
This The graduate programme ensures lines of continued innovation, year, the site HR managers have been trained in equality and diversity methodologies, and generational differences are developed principles to roll these out to all middle and senior management teams.
throughout the business, to maintain its competitive edge.
Graduates also introduce new ideas and enthusiasm into the company.
