Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements TOT TOT AL EMPLO AL EMPLO YEES YEES 34 34% % All employment decisions, including recruitment and internal promotions, are based on merit, qualification and abilities and will not be influenced or affected by an employees race, colour, nationality, religion, sex, marital status, family status, sexual orientation, disability or age.
66 66% % The business employs 4,627 people, up from the previous year of 4,402, and in addition a further 3,211 agency workers are also involved.
Male Male 3,05 3,0544 Gender and employee information Fe Fe mal mal e e 1,1, 57 5733 TOTAL EMPLOYEES Main board Main board Senior managers & executives Senior managers & executives 12 12% % 29 29% % 34% 66% 71 71% % 88 88% % Male 3,054 Male Male 77 Male Male 19 1955 Female 1,573 Fe Fe mal mal e e 11 Fe Fe mal mal e e 80 80 Main board Senior managers & executives Health and safety Cranswicks commitment to achieving high standards of health and safety continues with the commitment of the Board through the efforts of 12% a dedicated and coordinated team.
29% Cranswick is committed to high standards of health and safety, which accident individually, and to monitor control measures that have been is an integral part of its business.
There is an ongoing programme introduced, to prevent recurrence.
The system includes an action 71% of yearly improvements, fully endorsed by the Board, working in tracker, to guarantee closure of required actions in the required 88% partnership with its insurers to achieve and improve these standards time period.
These standards of health and safety training are applied equally to temporary agency workers as well as permanent The factory based Health and Safety Coordinators all hold the Male 7 Male 195 employees.
appropriate National Examination Board in Occupational Safety Female 1 Female 80 and Health NEBOSH qualification to help deliver the appropriate The Board take a keen interest in the group performance with the standards at site level.
Consistency across the Group is centrally accident and claims statistics reviewed and discussed at quarterly directed and coordinated.
With the increasing complexity of equipment Board meetings.
The Group Health and Safety team implement and and the legislation surrounding its design and use, the team has a monitor new initiatives across the sites required to fulfil the excellent Group Machinery Safety Coordinator.
As well as assessing the safety standards of health and safety within the business.
Monthly accident compliance of all new and current machinery within the business the statistics are monitored, using an industry leading web based accident role also involves delivering the appropriate training to the site based recording system.
This system allows the Group to analyse each engineering staff.
Any new machinery introduced to the business will not be used unless compliance with the latest Certificate of Conformity CEE regulations has been checked.
All sites within the Group have achieved British Standard 18001, the Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems.
Systems at new sites acquired during the year are being aligned with Group standards and will follow the same path.
The new sites in 2013 the pork processing site at Riverside in Hull: the pastry business at Malton: the Wayland pig production units in Norfolk and the Wold units in Yorkshire have been intergrated into the Group health and safety management programme.
