Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Responsible procurement The Group continues to operate from some of the best invested food This is an increase of 85 audits year on year and reflects increased production sites in the UK including the most modern and efficient supply chain surveillance by retailers and other customers.
It is pig abattoir in the country.
These undergo exacting external and pleasing to be able to report that the vast majority of these audits internal audits carried out by independent auditing bodies, customers, were completed to the full satisfaction of our customers and scheme government authorities, and by the Groups own technical compliance compliance.
In the current year the business has hosted 310 separate external compliance audits, many of which were unannounced.
Cranswick has recently celebrated its 83rd consecutive Grade A rating against the British Retail Consortium BRC Global Standard for Food Safety.
A record of compliance that stretches back to 2005.
4 of the sites also achieved an A rating during 201314.
This is the highest award given by the BRC and is reserved for those sites that achieve Grade A compliance by unannounced audit an achievement that Cranswick is very proud of.
Cranswick believes this long-standing track record of compliance to be sector leading.
In addition to BRC compliance of sites and systems of manufacture, Cranswick has a team of talented and industry proven technical many of the Companys pork products are in full compliance with the personnel who are responsible for this long standing track record Red Tractor Assurance Scheme Red Tractor, and the British Meat of compliance.
Processors Association BMPA pork and pork product standards.
This provides the consumer with confidence that these are produced within Cranswick is committed to ensuring the integrity and traceability an assured supply chain, to specified standards, that is traceable all of the raw materials meat, ingredients and packaging used in its the way back to farm, the integrity of which is challenged by third party products.
The approval of raw material suppliers and their products announced and unannounced audits.
Cranswick also produces organic and raw material specifications are controlled centrally by the Group products that are subject to a mass balance exercise carried out by Technical Service Team which collectively has responsibility for 558 independent auditors working for The Soil Association.
active suppliers and over 1545 raw materials.
Suppliers are approved by either independent third party audit, such as the BRC Global The engine room that drives technical compliance across the Group is Standard for Food Safety, or by Cranswicks approval audit carried out the exacting internal technical audit programme which saw over 794 by the Groups Technical Service team.
Cranswicks expectations of its separate audits carried out in the last twelve months.
The programme suppliers are clearly laid out within its Technical Conditions of Supply.
is not only there just to identify non-compliance but is also a means for highlighting best practice and shared learning across the Group.
In the last twelve months the Cranswick Group Technical service team has carried out 161 separate supply chain audits to ensure the safety, traceability and quality of the raw materials used.
During 2013 meat related food fraud has undermined consumer during the manufacture of single species products in multi-species confidence in the food industry.
The Elliot Report highlighted the factories and has been proactive in supporting the BMPA and the need for more effective management and policing of supply chains.
In Food Standards Agency FSA in their work with industry stakeholders.
response Cranswick has increased the resource available to maintain Cranswick has also put in place an extensive DNA screening schedule its supplier approval and traceability monitoring systems and modified for raw materials supplied to its businesses.
them to meet these challenges.
The Group is also looking at the wider challenges associated with preventing DNA cross contamination It is pleasing to be able to report that Cranswick has carried out DNA speciation testing on 665 finished product raw material samples and all have proved to be compliant.
Cranswick remains vigilant and in the year under review it spent At a time when the food industry is frequently held to account by the 1.65 million on laboratory screening of products and raw materials for media this level of audit, commitment to resource, traceability, and compliance to specification.
the resulting high level of compliance should be a re-assurance to customers, investors and consumers that the Group is equipped to deal with these and future challenges.
