Corporate Social Responsibility Social responsibility UK: Supporting children with learning diculties CSRs Manchester ofce elected Elms Bank Specialist Art College CSR recognises the importance of social, environmental and ethical as its 2014 Charity of the Year.
Elms Bank is a secondary special 'SEE' matters and during 2014 we continued our work on complying school for pupils aged between 11 and 19 who have complex with the ABI disclosure guidelines on social responsibility.
SEE matters learning difficulties, physical disabilities and those on the Autistic are integral to the philosophy of the Group and progress is periodically Spectrum Continuum.
The school is committed to providing all its considered by the Board and its committees.
We consider that our students with high-quality learning opportunities which help to work is part of a continuous process to develop standards and develop a sense of confidence and high aspiration.
As part of this working practices designed to deliver tangible improvements in how endeavour, CSR donated 1,000 towards the funding of a new we do business and to contribute to the wider community and interactive music room incorporating an OmniMusic technology stakeholders.
We demonstrate our commitment through initiatives suite located within Elms Banks new IT unit.
OmniMusic makes it supported by our various ofces around the world and the efforts of possible for disabled students to be fully involved in writing, many individual employees who participate in their communities as producing and performing music.
In addition to this, CSR also ambassadors for CSR.
At the wider Group level, this includes donated a number of sport bags for the school which are proudly assessing the impact of our operations on the environment and on used by the students.
the safety and wellbeing of our employees and end-users of our products.
Furthermore, we assess those involved in the development Japan: Bringing technology to the community and manufacture of our products through our suppliers, distributors CSR Japan took an active part in the annual campus festival of and customers.
Activities in these areas are discussed in more detail Akita Prefectural University, a community outreach event.
CSR on pages 39 to 42. demonstrated a variety of exciting new Bluetooth Smart enabled wearables and so-called appcessories to students and people CSR has over 20 ofces across the US, Europe and Asia-Pacic.
In from the local community.
Advances in digital audio technology the following section, we summarise some of the activities which have were also demonstrated.
To further engage festival visitors, CSR been undertaken by our employees in support of our corporate social handed out prizes for correctly answering questions on technology.
We are proud to be able to share details which Additionally, a group of students from the university demonstrated demonstrate the dedication shown by our staff, their families and how a CSR Bluetooth Smart starter development kit which CSR friends.
The initiatives for these activities come either directly from offers could be congured to monitor blood pressure and predict individual employees or the social responsibility committee associated the risk of stroke.
USA: Supporting women in engineering The Company supports approved individual and team proposals by allowing time out of the working week one day each year in the case 2014 marked the fourth year CSRs Athellina Athsani has been of our UK-based employees, equivalent to 774 days for 2014 which participating in the STEM programme known as TechWomen.
is used for participation in charity events and community activities.
In TechWomen empowers, connects, and supports the next the UK the Company also offers additional incentive to each initiative generation of women leaders in science, technology, engineering by offering matched funding of up to 1,000 that is provided to the and mathematics from Africa and the Middle East by pairing them chosen charities.
with female technologists and entrepreneurs from Silicon Valley in California.
Athellina, Director of Strategic Planning, who is based We are eager to give back to the community in a variety of ways and in the CSR San Jose ofce, is matched as a cultural mentor with this includes using the expertise and capabilities which our employees Sherin Abdel Hamid from Egypt.
Sherin is a PhD candidate at possess to encourage the next generation to enjoy, learn and get Queens University, Ontario, Canada conducting research focused involved in science, technology, engineering and mathematics on intelligent transportation systems.
She is also an Assistant STEM.
For example, CSR has provided sponsorship and the Lecturer at Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
support of its employees to the UK Electronics Skills Foundation Launched in 2011, TechWomen is an initiative of the US UKESF since its inception in 2010.
Seeking to inspire young people Department of States Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs.
to pursue careers in the electronics industry, UKESF has partnered TechWomen supports the rights and advancement of women and with the Engineering Development Trust to create an electronicsgirls around the world by enabling them to reach their full potential based project called Go4SET.
Through mentorship and exchange, TechWomen works to strengthen participants professional Each year, employees in many of our ofces are invited to nominate capacity, increases mutual understanding between key networks their Charity of the Year through an ofce wide voting process.
Other of professionals, and expands interest in STEM careers by ofce locations regularly provide help to charities through the more introducing them to female role models.
direct involvement of our employees.
UK: Building interest in STEM skills in young people Employee involvement There has been much talk of the skills shortage that is going to The following pages present a series of examples of our social face companies that require graduates with skills in STEM responsibility initiatives across Europe, the US and Asia-Pacic.
CSR is working with STEMNET, a UK organisation that regularly share updates on our activities via social media and on creates links between employers and educators with the aim of our website www.
tackling the STEM skills shortage.
STEMNET believe that by enthusing young people about STEM, employers can help to China: Supporting the arts develop the creativity, problem-solving and employability skills of young people and widen the understanding and awareness of CSR Shanghai volunteers attended the Hands On Shanghai STEM careers with the next generation of UK employees.
benefit Concert at the Shanghai Conservatory of Music, where a CSR Cambridge is planning to attend a large STEM Fair organised group of people with learning difficulties performed alongside by STEM Team East at the former RAF base at Duxford, famous Chinese musicians.
These special performers spent a great Cambridgeshire in 2015 and run a workshop which will involve deal of time and effort practising before having the courage to writing software code on a Raspberry Pi to interact with CSRs stand on the stage.
CSR were pleased and privileged to have SiRFstarV GNSS chip.
Work has started to build the hardware contributed to support their involvement.
At the end of the concert, required to run this workshop and a first draft of the workshop has the children of CSR volunteers went on stage to present owers to been completed.
CSR invited a number of graduates to contribute the performers.
to the project, developing the required code and testing the solution they collaborated to create.
36 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report USA: Running for cancer research Taiwan: Raising funds for disabled children and delivering food Employee Frank McSorley CSR Burlington joined this years Susan G. Komen 3-Day Philadelphia event held over The Children Are Us Foundation CAUF is a non-profit private 12-14 September 2014, one of a number of 60-mile sponsored organisation that provides long term care and job training to walks around the USA.
Frank also walked 40 miles in Boston people with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
CAUFs in aid of the same breast cancer research charity.
Frank raised goal is to inspire and promote the potential talent of its people.
$4,860 over both these walks: and CSR donated $1,000 towards CAUF works to change peoples general perceptions, educating his endeavours.
Thanks to sponsors, more people are being the wider public in order to understand and respect its workers.
tested earlier, critical to early identication of breast cancers.
CAUF is famous in Taiwan for operating bakeries and restaurants.
The first CAUF bakery opened in Kaohsiung City in 1997, and UK: Computers for disabled veterans CAUF has since expanded, opening other branches in Taipei City and Hsinchu City.
The Veterans Charity in the UK was founded in 2008 and focuses on providing fast, direct support to veterans living in the UK of all CSR Taiwan are closely involved with this project and in 2014 generations who may be facing hardship.
helped deliver products from the bakery to children in remote districts in addition to raising funds to support the bakery and Veterans can nd the transition between leaving the forces and its workers.
There are many factors that can inuence such difficulties including physical and or mental injury.
UK: Arts and crafts therapy Support in re-adjustment, including the provision of items that many of us regard as everyday essentials to our daily lives, can make Rowan, an arts and crafts therapy charity based in Cambridge, a difference during the transition and have been found to work was the recent recipient of a donation of 5,000 as one of CSRs positively in enabling veterans improve their health and wellbeing.
three UK Charity of the Year selections.
The Veterans Charity is focused on providing basic assistance, such as shopping and equipment, such as mobile phones to help stay Rowan was started in 1984 to improve the lives of people in touch with colleagues to assist the veterans in the journey to with learning difficulties through the provision of services and self-sufciency.
CSR supplied a number of reconditioned laptops meaningful activities.
As a result of the donation from CSR, for the Veterans Charity and loaded them with a suite of software.
Rowan have been able to fund the cost of vital transport for the year as part of these activities that support their work.
USA: Biking for pediatric care Japan: Running for orphans of earthquake Team CSR rode in the 35th annual Pan-Mass Challenge bike-a-thon to support adult and pediatric cancer care at the The Tokyo Marathon is held in February each year.
In 2014, four Dana Farber Cancer Institute.
CSR Burlingtons Mary Alice employees from CSRs Tokyo ofce, Hiroshi Honda, Tomohiko McParlane four-time rider and Art Weeks three-time rider joined Kato, David Fukada, and Yasuhiro Shinozaki, ran the full marathon over 5,500 other riders and 3,000 volunteers in a long-term goal distance as part of the companys Social Responsibility efforts.
Thanks to the generosity of many sponsors nished the 42.195 km course in times between 4 hours and 5.5 they were able to raise nearly $10,000.
Through their endeavours $3,000 was raised, which was China: Cleaning up local beaches donated to a charity which helps cover the school fees of children who lost parents in the Tohoku earthquake disaster of 2011.
Every year, hundreds of thousands of people clean up beaches worldwide to protect the marine environment.
During 2014, India: Outtting a rural school volunteers from CSRs Shanghai ofce played their part, and Our CEO, Joep van Beurden, and CSR India General Manager, together with over one thousand other volunteers, they cleaned Prabhu Shastry, joined colleagues from the CSR Bangalore ofce five miles of Dishui Lake beach.
who made a return visit to Shishu Mandir school to provide new classroom furniture including desks, tables and chairs plus muchFourteen CSR colleagues and their family members volunteered needed stationery and a printer.
The visit began with a communal to join the Beach Clean-up activity at Nan Hui, Shanghai.
This lunch, where CSR staff joined 200 children and teachers, and was project aims to mobilise volunteers to clean up local beaches in followed by a tour of the premises and facilities, including the schools Shanghai, raise awareness for water resources protection, and busy computer lab.
Afterwards, Joep announced CSRs backing of ultimately reduce pollution to the water environment.
an annual award for scholarship providing sponsorship for the top Israel: Maths tutoring for high school students student of the 10th grade during the subsequent 11th and 12th grade years.
Shishu Mandir is a school run for local village children, In Haifa, Israel, we continue to participate in Think Positive, which around 70% girls and 30% boys, from challenging family is a tutoring programme partnering volunteers with junior high backgrounds.
school students to help improve maths capabilities.
Weekly one to one lessons take place at the CSR Haifa ofce.
In addition to these lessons, we also give presentations on our technology, demonstrating how the ideas the students are learning about have real world application.
The programme is led and driven by the Haifa Coalition for Social Responsibility partnered with CSR, Intel, IBM, Phillips, Taro, Qualcomm and the regional Ministry of Haifa.
Think Positive has shown proven success in improving students maths grades and more than half of the students that have been through the experience have chosen to pursue studies in technology.
com 37 Corporate Social Responsibility continued We have an extensive library of material in the iLearn element of Learning and Development Oracle, and continue to develop global access to online learning by At CSR we recognise that our people are a very important part improving both the content and the system.
Online training in areas of what has made our Company a success to date and we such as project management, performance evaluation, compliance recognise the importance of building on that success for the future.
training in health and safety and the UK Bribery Act are examples The execution of our strategic objectives is signicantly dependent of the resources provided.
Our training programmes also reect on the capabilities, knowledge, experience and skills of our people.
specic initiatives which are carried out by functions in our group.
We continue to invest in training and career progression in order to For example, recognising the importance of our own people to the sustain and further develop these capabilities and to support our security of our systems and the data belonging to our group and employees in achieving personal development and career customers, we have implemented group-wide training in IT security, ambitions.
This not only helps to motivate our people and raising awareness of potential threats and of good practice.
encourage them to build rewarding careers, it also helps us in our drive to continually enhance the quality of service to our customers Such learning resources are not only used for self-learning but and supports our objective to deliver innovative solutions into the also in support of coaching and traditional face-to-face learning, marketplace.
allowing a more blended approach to personal development.
Increasingly, employees will be able to manage the planning and As we continue to extend our markets and technologies, we require delivery of their own development.
We believe that this provides a more diverse range of skills to support the business and our empowerment and encourages people to reect on where they strategic objectives.
We are a member of The Learning Collaboration would most benefit from additional training, within a framework in the UK which enables us to provide a range of development which enables their HR managers to provide guidance and offer opportunities.
In the US, we work with the American Management feedback linked to performance evaluations.
Association offering a range of skills training, as well as with boutique consultancies to support specic relevant learning interventions.
During 2014, we have continued to invest in worldwide learning Diversity and development to support this, offering training in areas such as CSR is a multicultural global organisation and we are committed to manager and senior leader development, interpersonal and technical providing equal opportunities for training, career development and skills.
This included developing a wide range of learning programmes promotion to all employees, regardless of any physical disability, in R&D and in Marketing.
gender, religion, race or nationality.
Our recruitment, training and development programmes reect this philosophy.
Within the Reecting how CSR evolves in order to respond to the needs of management team that reports to the CEO, women comprise 14% our customers and changes in the markets we serve, we seek or 1 out of 7 personnel and at board level 13% or 1 of 8.
In the to enhance our learning and development resources and engage Group as a whole, women comprise 17% of our total employees directly with line managers in the proactive development and or 366 out of a total of 2,108.
The CSR Group comprises a continuous improvement of their teams.
Each year we undertake number of subsidiary entities which have boards of directors.
a detailed learning needs assessment to identify the areas where For these entities there are 106 individual appointments, of which we can focus our learning resources to maximise their impact on 97 are men and 9 or 8% are women.
This is an important part of supporting Applications for vacancies are considered based on capabilities our business strategy to be a leading technology company that and reecting the requirements of the role, and resources for is first to innovate and capture emerging areas of opportunity.
development and training are made available to all employees.
Through this engagement with our people, we are developing For example, our online lessons have audio tracks and also text courses and online resources that help us to reinforce winning captions that follow the sound in order specically to assist the behaviours that serve our organisation well.
In the UK, for hard-of-hearing.
The user can choose whatever suits them best.
example, we are enhancing our learning and development In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort for senior leaders and managers by introducing various short is made to ensure that their employment with the CSR Group courses, cross-functional peer learning and master classes continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
In addition, targeted at personal development.
CSR provides various learning opportunities in local languages to During 2014, we supported a number of Tech Talks which accommodate different language skills.
covered a wide range of topics, from technical such as a better understanding of how a specic CSR core technology works, to Mutual respect, acknowledging and accepting diversity, and how to use a particular process or simply sharing knowledge of safeguarding the fundamental rights of individuals should be the what we do at CSR for example, a demonstration day of products foundations not only of a socially responsible company but also of containing CSR chips.
Talks have also been provided during the our wider global society.
CSR is committed to these principles and year on softer skills topics, such as effective staff management the respect for human rights of all people inside and outside our and leadership.
organisation and this is reected within our ethics policy which is promulgated across our Group.
During 2014, our Oracle-based Learning Management and Pensions are available to all employees, either through Performance Management system enabled us to provide an participation in the state pension schemes in the country in which improved interface to learning materials.
This is an important the employee is resident or by provision of a dened contribution communication tool in assisting with the capture and cascade of pension scheme.
Such schemes are maintained in accordance our organisational goals, connected with the performance with legislative requirements, custom, practice and Group policy objectives of people across our Group.
Our intention is to use as appropriate.
these tools to enable our employees to better understand their personal contribution to delivering business performance and supporting the fullment of our strategy.
38 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Inclusion Health, safety and environmental management We promote an open and honest working environment where CSR expects the highest of ethical standards of all its employees employee views are sought, listened to and acted upon.
and its policies and procedures support its stated aim of acting with integrity in all aspects of its operations.
During 2014, we continued to provide our employees with regular updates on business goals and progress.
A range of channels The Board director responsible for health and safety matters is provide regular communications to CSR employees globally.
In Will Gardiner, Chief Financial officer.
During 2014, Mr. Gardiner addition to e-mail updates from our CEO and executive team, we met with those who manage the Companys health and safety provided a weekly update via e-mail, in the form of our global issues including the Senior Manager for Health, Safety and newsletter, Whats New @ CSR.
This weekly e-newsletter is Environmental HSE.
Reports are presented to the Board twice supplemented with regular posts on CSRs social media channels each year covering health and safety matters, which include Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn about staff activities, business statistics on accidents and incidents and progress in fullling highlights, charitable events and tradeshow coverage.
Our intranet targets linked to continuous improvement and promoting wider portal provides employees with access to a variety of tools to help awareness of HSE matters.
them in the performance of their work and to view benets, In the UK, we have an HSE Committee which meets regularly performance and other information.
and is chaired by the Senior Manager, HSE.
Our HSE policies are Recognising and rewarding exceptional performance is key at CSR available to all employees on our intranet site, as are the minutes and managers have a number of tools available to support this.
of the HSE Committee and details of current HSE initiatives.
CSRs global recognition programme, Further, allows employees Examples of such initiatives are explained below.
to nominate colleagues they believe have made exceptional During 2014, work continued in promulgating HSE best practices contributions, for a cash award and global recognition.
Colleagues across the CSR Group, deploying measures developed in can also use e-cards to send personal thank you messages at Cambridge as a baseline for globally applicable and acceptable any time, building a culture of appreciation and teamwork.
Country leaders and their Employees have the opportunity to participate in the Companys deputies continue to act as champions at their ofce locations to share incentive schemes, thereby benefitting from the success of support various training programmes and initiatives to raise the business.
This includes tax-efficient share purchase schemes, awareness about health and safety.
In February 2014 and July 2014, allowing staff to save money to purchase shares in CSR at a the Audit Committee received reports on progress against the discount.
CSR also operates global bonus plans, which reward targets for such matters as part of its routine business at its employees as a percentage of their salary, maintaining a team meetings.
Participation in the bonus schemes operated by the CSR Group is open to all employees.
Our quarterly results We have developed a health and safety training programme for announcements give employees context to understand the our ofces.
Through this programme, we now have representatives impact of their contributions during the course of the year.
in each region who have obtained or are in the process of obtaining the UK National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and We have continued our popular Lunch & Learn programme, which Health.
In 2015, training will be extended to cover further skills and we first launched five years ago.
This enables employees to learn competencies such as waste management, re safety and the about CSR technologies during their lunch breaks.
Increasingly, control of substances hazardous to health.
Within the Facilities, we are publishing the presentations as videos and making them Health, Safety and Environmental function, we have identied available via iLearn to those who have not been able to attend the specic training to assist team members in the performance of their original presentation.
This has helped to support global interaction, roles and responsibilities which will be implemented in the coming allowing a greater number of people to benefit from the topics year.
The objective of this approach is to support our employees by which are covered as well as encouraging discussion and sharing providing knowledge, appreciation of the objectives of the Group of ideas by employees.
and a shared sense of responsibility.
We encourage employees to share their ideas which might be In support of these objectives, we completed the deployment of adopted into new technologies and products.
To provide a simple an online HSE compliance tool globally which is designed to give mechanism for employees to provide their feedback, we enhanced Facilities and HSE staff direct access to information and guidance our online suggestions tool, Innovation Portal.
Employee ideas for on meeting the local legislation relevant to their operations.
innovation and improvements across the business are subject to an In addition to the data resource which has been created, we evaluation process, which includes, where appropriate, commercial will be exploiting the features of an online system to allow our HSE evaluation.
The Group also supports an innovation award for the managers to track and monitor, in real time, tasks which they are best invention.
required to fulll in order to comply with local laws and regulations.
Employees by function: 2014 2013 2012 This will be rolled out in phases with the UK targeted for Q1 2015.
This online resource is a key tool in our ongoing compliance with R&D 1,515 1,352 1,430 ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
com 39 Corporate Social Responsibility continued In January 2014, we commenced a health, safety and We are registered with the Environment Agency pursuant to the environmental awareness and training programme for all our staff requirements of the Climate Change Act 2008, which forms a key worldwide.
On a quarterly basis this covered such topics as serious component of the commitment by the UK government and and imminent danger, first aid and responding to the spillage of businesses in response to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.
hazardous materials in the working environment.
This programme CSR has implemented procedures in order to be able to record will continue to be run throughout 2015.
The aim is to help and report on energy consumption for our UK premises.
The UK support, encourage and empower staff at a local level with government introduced the first phase of payments in respect of awareness of HSE compliance requirements and help develop carbon usage in 2012.
The UK government has set a threshold for good practices.
consumption of electricity per annum above which business are The executive director with responsibility for the Groups required to register and pay a levy in respect of the 2014 year, Environmental Management System EMS throughout 2014 which ran for the period 1 July 30 June 2014.
CSR expected to was Mr. Chris Ladas, Operations Director.
Since CSR is a fabless exceed the threshold set by the UK Government and we therefore semiconductor company and therefore does not have its own registered for Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Phase 2. manufacturing facilities, our EMS, which has the support of the CSR submitted its return in July 2014, in connection with which Board, has been developed to reect that all our employees work we were subsequently required to purchase an allowance for in ofce based environments which results in a low eco-footprint.
the equivalent of 4,475 tonnes of carbon, at a cost of 53,688.
We do however seek to establish and maintain high environmental With the leasing of an additional property in the UK in 2014, management standards across all aspects of our operations, we expect our submission in 2015 to be in the region of 60,000. consistent with the environmental standard ISO 14001.
Certication For the 52 week financial period ended 26 December 2014, CSR requires that we have an EMS which defines the environmental is required to disclose details of Global Greenhouse Gas GHG policy of the Group and sets objectives intended to drive continuous emissions in our annual report and financial statements pursuant to improvements in environmental awareness and practices.
the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report The ongoing management of EMS is overseen by a team Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The UK government has a incorporating managers responsible for HSE, Facilities, Business stated intention through the CRC Energy efficiency Scheme, and the Management Systems and Quality Assurance.
Regulations, that by tracking and reporting quantities of GHGs that they produce, companies will also become more aware of their The team establishes a programme of action for each year and carbon footprint.
The Regulations are also intended to encourage tracks progress against targets.
Progress is monitored by the companies to identify areas where reductions in emissions can be Companys internal Quality Assurance department, which reports made and explore opportunities to implement money-saving energy regularly to the Internal Auditor and to the Audit Committee.
efficiency measures, which in turn will be better for the environment.
At the date of this report, the Company has received two The classes of emissions on which CSR is required to report are surveillance visits, in June 2014 and January 2015, for both ISO identied in the Greenhouse Protocol, A Corporate Accounting 14001 and OHSAS 18001 which were completed by Lloyds and Reporting Standard Revised Edition, 2004 reecting UK Register Quality Assurance Limited, an internationally recognised government Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
The visits confirmed that the Companys Management System continued to satisfy the requirements of ISO These comprise: 14001:2004 and BS OHSAS 18001:2007, and continued certication to these standards was awarded.
Recertication Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions against these two standards will take place in May 2015.
Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or where CSR has operational control, for example, emissions from Environment combustion in owned or operationally controlled boilers, furnaces Our environmental policy includes commitments to: and vehicles, or emissions from chemical production in owned or employee consultation and training: operationally controlled process equipment.
assessment of our activities and product-related environmental impacts to identify targets for continuous improvement: and Scope 2: Electricity indirect GHG emissions legal compliance and due consideration of other stakeholder Scope 2 accounts for GHG emissions from the generation of environmental requirements.
purchased electricity consumed by the Company.
Purchased electricity is dened as electricity that is purchased or otherwise We believe that we are taking appropriate steps to contribute to brought into the organisational boundary of the user.
Scope 2 sound environmental practices, covering not only the manufacture emissions physically occur at the facility where electricity is and supply of our products but also positive measures to establish generated.
and build on good working practices within our various ofce locations.
We have developed a global five-year environmental CSRs GHG reporting regime covers Scope 1 emissions fuel improvement programme, which addresses three major areas: combustion and the operation of CSRs facilities and Scope 2 energy efficiencies and reduction in consumption, recycling and emissions from purchased electricity, heat, steam or cooling.
CSR waste management, water consumption reduction and efficiencies.
has recorded information about emissions for the 12 months from Some of the specic objectives for 2015 include reducing the 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014.
We have followed the amount of waste going to landll in the USA and India to less than Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised edition 2004 and the 10% of the total waste produced and reducing by 5% our energy operational control consolidation approach to determine what is consumption in our ofces in China.
Therefore all entities and facilities either 40 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report owned or under the operational control of the Company worldwide We have dedicated staff who assist in the development of all new have been included.
Lease-based properties under operational products and the review of existing product lines targeting the use control were also included.
The data has been sourced from of greener materials.
Part of their role is to monitor established and utility bills and company car log books.
As permitted under the pending legislation and standards published by national and Regulations, air travel and other emission sources not under our supranational governments and agencies and to ensure that we are control have been excluded.
proactive in going beyond the minimum requirements in our compliance with the types and quantities of materials used.
By following the operational control consolidation approach, disclosures include leased assets that are not included in the In this respect we work closely with both customers and suppliers consolidated financial statements.
The intensity ratios for indicating in developing products to reduce the use of hazardous materials, performance for emissions are to express carbon output in terms and through testing and certication, ensuring ongoing compliance.
of an appropriate metric for the organisation concerned.
For an Our standard integrated circuits are fully compliant with all existing essentially ofce-based business such as CSR, we have European legislation, including Restrictions of the Use of Certain determined that oor space based on a measure assessed as the Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment gross internal area correlates more closely with the greenhouse Regulations RoHS and Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and gas emissions of the Company, as for CRC reporting.
Registration of Chemicals regulations REACH, as well as in other territories where equivalent legislation has been introduced.
Scope 1 Scope 2 In addition to procedures that establish and monitor compliance, tonnes of tonnes of we have processes in place to make sure that customers are CO e CO e Total 2 2 supported with up-to-date materials, information and laboratory Totals 271 9083 9354 analysis to validate the environmental compliance of our products.
Emissions 0.004 0.146 0.15 CSR is a fabless semiconductor company.
We design and sell intensity tonnes 2 1 of CO e per m semiconductor products and we subcontract to third parties the 2 processes for the manufacture, packaging and testing of our 1 Total ofce oor area is 62,162.63 square metres reecting our gross internal products.
We recognise the importance of ensuring that our area across all properties occupied during the stated period by the Group key suppliers have appropriate policies and practices on social, worldwide environmental and ethical matters.
Key manufacturing partners are selected and assessed based on certication to appropriate The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS also comes globally recognised standards such as ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 into force in 2015.
It is a mandatory energy assessment scheme and SA 8000.
We are proud to continue to work alongside TSMC, for organisations in the UK that meet the qualication criteria.
which is reputed to be the greenest semiconductor fabricator Corporate groups qualify if at least one UK group member meets company in the world.
By reducing emissions, recycling water and the ESOS denition of a large undertaking, i. e. it employs at least consuming less water, TSMC is already recognised as a champion 250 people, which is the case with CSR.
Because CSR is not fully of good environmental policies and standards.
covered by ISO 50001, we will be carrying out an ESOS assessment.
The resulting production of Display Energy Certicates We periodically undertake audits of the operations of our key is considered compliant with the requirements of ESOS.
These supply partners to provide assurance that appropriate standards must be carried out and be in place by 5 December 2015 in order are being maintained in these areas and to determine whether for us to meet the requirements of the scheme.
internationally recognised certication exists to the standards mentioned above.
We remain committed to continuous improvement in the recycling of spent materials in the UK and employees are actively During 2014, reviews of product environmental compliance were encouraged to support such initiatives.
Waste bins are segregated conducted by our Supplier Audit Team at suppliers in Taiwan.
into categories of recyclable materials and suitable waste bins Through these reviews, we obtained assurances on certain have been located in communal areas.
In 2014, through the use practices and supporting certications.
of alternative waste disposal methods of mechanical biological treatment and incineration, and based on returns from our Based on the extent of our ongoing engagement described above, contractor, we have reduced the amount of waste going to landll the Board believes that steps are being taken to mitigate against by approximately 90%.
The total amount of all waste types the risks relating to health, safety and environmental responsibilities recycled within our UK operations for the 12 month period ended and there is no present expectation that prevailing practices would December 2014 was approximately 173,000 kg.
materially affect our strategic objectives.
CSR has long been committed to optimising the use of greener Conict Minerals materials in our end-products.
We continue to work with customers Pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and suppliers as well as our own in-house teams in developing and and Consumer Protection Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, in August supplying products which meet the highest standards as regards 2012, the SEC adopted disclosure requirements for SEC reporting minimising the use of hazardous substances.
companies on the utilisation of certain so-called conict minerals tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold mined from the Democratic CSRs products are manufactured and packaged in a variety Republic of Congo DRC and adjoining countries in their of forms.
All new products released by CSR in recent years are products.
CSR is registered with the SEC and our products contain manufactured according to CSRs own green standards.
one or a combination of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold which is The green standards have been developed by CSR as part of intentionally added and necessary to product functionality.
The ongoing engagement with leading global companies who are majority of these supplies do not come from scrap or recycled customers of CSR and also with the support of our suppliers.
Whilst we are not a direct buyer of the conict minerals CSRs green standards therefore reect not only internationally from source, we recognise that we need to report on our supply recognised guidelines but also the feedback of our customers, chain and the extent to which such conict minerals may be used whose requirements frequently exceed the minimum conditions in our products.
For this purpose, we have implemented measures set by governments and regulators.
for gathering information from our suppliers.
com 41 Corporate Social Responsibility continued We have generated and approved an internal management system CSRs principal suppliers are TSMC and ASE.
TSMC and ASE full to determine an approach in addressing the requirements of the a significant proportion of our requirement for the manufacture, Dodd-Frank Act.
The management system reects the guidelines assembly, test and packaging of our integrated circuits which we dened by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and supply to our customers.
Both ASE and TSMC have completed Development.
Day-to-day activity is undertaken by our product their supply chain review.
As a result, both TSMC and ASE are able compliance team.
to confirm that their supply chain to CSR are DRC conict free where DRC conict free means that they do not contain minerals All manufacturing of CSRs semiconductor products is performed that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the by our supplier partners.
As such, we are a downstream company.
A small portion of our requirement for the We have no direct business relationship with smelters or reners.
manufacture, assembly, test and packaging of our integrated We also believe that our suppliers have no direct business circuits which we supply to our customers are supported by relationship with smelters or reners.
alternative suppliers who are working towards DRC conict free status.
In 2015 we will continue to work towards DRC conict free We have responded to the more rigorous requirements in line with status with these remaining suppliers.
As a result of this work, in the updated Conict-Free Sourcing Initiative.
By the end of 2014 May 2015 we will report that we are DRC conict undeterminable, we had received updated responses from all of our main suppliers during the continuing transition period of 2015. and our actions in achieving this position is explained below.
We will continue to make reasonable enquiries with our suppliers on During 2014, we conducted a good faith Reasonable Country of their progress in meeting the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Origin Inquiry RCOI that was intended to identify whether any of the necessary conict minerals in our products either originated in the The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board of Directors DRC or an adjoining country, or were from recycled or scrap sources.
Based on our RCOI, we identied that some of the necessary conict minerals used in our products originated in the DRC or an adjoining Signed by Order of the Board for and on behalf of the Board of country and may not have been from recycled or scrap sources.
Directors Following the conduct of our due diligence, we have determined that, of those suppliers who sourced materials from the DRC or adjoining countries, all the processing facilities had been validated as being Brett Gladden in compliance with the Conict Free Smelter Program.
Company Secretary 4 March 2015 42 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
