The Afren approach to corporate responsibility One of the five strategic priorities that we have identified to achieve our vision is ensuring that our corporate responsibility performance achieves the highest standards.
We aim to: Minimise the effects of our activities on theenvironment and meet the climate changechallenge Provide a healthy and safe workplace Contribute positively to our local communities Conduct all of our business activities fairly Be a first-class employer 56 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Key areas of focus In 2014, the Board of Directors adopted a new corporate responsibility strategy which recognised five key areas of focus.
These are: Environment and climate change 62 Health and safety 65 Communities 66 Business conduct 67 People 69 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 The Afren approach to corporate responsibility continued Our approach was generated by taking as the framework the industry guidance on sustainability produced by IPIECA and carrying out a gap analysis between current performance and stakeholder expectations.
The strategy design process identifieda series of high priority issues and recommendations toaddress them.
These are reflected in our targets and aims for 2014 and 2015.
Balanced score card and management remuneration In line with our peers and best practice, a balanced score card has been generated with key performance indicators KPIs and work activities against each of the priority issues.
The scorecard is linked to management remuneration to demonstrate the strong link between strategy, performance and reward.
Governing frameworks and principles IPIECA guidelines MaterialityLegal and regulatory requirements Develop a corporate responsibility strategy 1 and link this with the Companys vision Identify five key areas of focus 2 Environment and Health Communities Business conduct People climate change and safety For each key area of focus Set policies Develop management Monitor and Communicate and 3 systems measure performance report to stakeholders Apply stakeholder feedback to enhance strategy, policies, 4 systems, performance, reporting and communications 58 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Figure 2.
Our areas of focus Diversity and equality of opportunity Greenhouse gas and other atmospheric emissions Training and development Biodiversity Regular dialogue and communication Water use Spills Discharges to water Reuse, recycling and waste management Environmental management People Environment and climate change Anti-bribery and corruptio n Health and Safety culture Prohibition of forced and child labour Accident prevention Customer and supplier relations Product stewardship Focus on local content Process safety Business Health Host government transactions Occupational health conduct and safety Human rights Workforce participation Stakeholder engagement and dialogue Communities Social investment Respect for the rights of indigenous people Prohibition of involuntary resettlement Pro-active conduct of community affairs Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 The Afren approach to corporate responsibility continued Transparency and reporting Framework for 2015 We continued with the development of our monitoring and EHSS targets reporting framework in 2015, in particular looking at improving 2014 target 2014 performance 2015 target Issue the capture and reporting of greenhouse gases GHG and waste quantities.
This data will be reported through the Afren website Environment and climate change once it has been checked and verified.
We also published the Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Develop and disclose a comprehensive climate Afrens climate change strategy was reviewed change strategy.
and approved by the Board in December and climate change strategy referred to below and invited comment can be found on the Companys website.
and feedback from investors and other interested stakeholders.
To reduce the GHG emissions associated Improve the Companys data collection.
Improved capture and granularity of data Energy use with flared gas in our operated assets by 5% achieved for reporting of 2014 GHG emissions.
Environment and climate change from the 2014 total of 513,034 tonnes of CO e. 2 Flaring Review and confirm accuracy of reported GHG Completed.
We are evaluating the feasibility In line with our stated targets for 2014 we reviewed our approach emissions in particular for flaring and set flaring of gas injection at the Ebok field and will set to climate change, looking at the risks and opportunities presented reduction targets for 2015. flaring reduction targets for 2015. by this issue.
As a result, we have developed and approved a Conduct environmental social impact assessments Completed for all new projects in 2014.
Biodiversity Conduct environmental social impact assessments before all project activity.
comprehensive climate change strategy which can be viewed on before all project activity.
Through this review process we have been able to Spills to the environment Achieve a target of fewer than three spills Achieved.
Achieve a target of fewer than three spills oil or chemicals of over 1 bbl to the environment.
oil or chemicals of over 1 bbl to the environment.
substantially improve the Companys position against the Carbon Run an oil spill response exercise at all operated assets.
Run an oil spill response exercise at all operated assets.
Disclosure Project now CDP ranking system, improving from a Discharges to be within limits and fewer than three Not achieved.
Discharges to water Monitor and report total oil discharges to the score of 37 in 2013 to 77 in 2014: this is very favourable when excursions over the limits during the year.
Monitor environment from produced water for operated assets.
compared to our peer group.
and report total oil discharges to the environment from produced water for operated assets.
Health and Safety Install new produced water treatment equipment Not achieved.
To agree a produced water compliance plan with the During 2014 we were successful in driving down injuries in the at Okoro and Ebok to ensure discharge quality is Nigerian Department of Petroleum Resources for the maintained as water volumes increase.
Ebok and Okoro production facilities.
workplace by 30%, achieving our targets for both Lost Time Injury Frequency of below 0.92 and Total Recordable Incident Waste Record and report tonnages of hazardous and non Achieved.
Record and report tonnages of hazardous hazardous wastes.
Record and report tonnages of and non hazardous wastes.
Record and report Rate of below 2.77.
We also reviewed and updated our corporate wastes that are recycled.
tonnages of wastes that are recycled.
crisis management plans and conducted a series of training Develop and implement a consistent framework for Substantially completed.
Framework has been Audits and management systems Complete the roll out of the environmental sessions culminating in a full-blown exercise in December.
environmental management across operated assets, developed and will be fully rolled out during management framework across the Company.
consistent with the requirements of ISO14001.
People Health and Safety As part of the review of the Companys performance management Drive down the LTIF and TRIR values.
Achieve an LTIF Achieved improved LTIF down 31.4% and TRIR Continue to improve safety performance by achieving Occupational injury programme we have enhanced the appraisal criteria to include of below 0.92 and a TRIR below 2.77. down 28.2% performance which was better a reduction in LTIF and TRIR below the 2014 values.
issues relating to Company culture, namely demonstration of than target.
an awareness of the Companys EHSS standards and promotion Fatalities Zero fatalities.
of these principles within the business.
It also assesses the level Process safety and asset integrity Fewer than five process integrity breaches Achieved.
Fewer than five process integrity breaches of understanding of Afrens Code of Business Conduct and Loss of Primary Containment resulting in Loss of Primary Containment resulting in demonstration of high levels of integrity and responsibility in release of hydrocarbons in operated assets.
release of hydrocarbons in operated assets.
Conduct British Safety Council 5 Star audits in N A We were unable to conduct audits with the Develop and execute a comprehensive audit plan for Audits and management systems Nigeria and Kurdistan.
Operations senior managers British Safety Council due to concerns over the 2015 including both internal and independent audits.
Communities to have at least one EHSS objective in their annual security situation in both Nigeria and Kurdistan.
Our social investment programme continued during 2014 Promote the reporting and investigation of near misses.
Incident notification in the key areas of education, skills, employment and health.
To develop and execute a plan for ongoing We also reviewed and enhanced our overall system for managing training and exercising of the corporate crisis Crisis management Review and re-issue the corporate Crisis Management Achieved.
community affairs, focusing on the selection and approval Plan and hold an exercise.
process, project budgeting and execution and the monitoring Ensure security risk assessments are conducted for Completed.
Ensure security risk assessments are conducted for Security all operations.
Establish a system for quality assurance all operations.
Establish a system for quality assurance and evaluation of projects.
Conduct security reviews for all of security measures.
Conduct security reviews for new facility designs.
Business conduct People A major revision was made to the Code of Business Conduct All operations senior managers above grade 9 to Achieved.
We aim to revitalise the Afren EHSS culture during during 2014: these changes were approved by the Board in Health and safety culture have at least one EHSS objective in their annual the course of 2015.
This will include a fundamental December and this was followed by a programme of on-line performance targets.
review of the corporate policies and procedures and training and testing for all employees and contractors.
The results an awareness campaign to promote the Afren Safety Champion rules which address key areas of safety risk of the exercise have been reviewed to identify potential future and appropriate controls.
Refresher training on the Code of Business Communities Conduct will be carried out annually and all new starters will Local community impact Implement a consistent framework for engagement Achieved.
To continue to effectively engage with our local receive the training as part of the induction process.
with local communities across all operations.
communities to ensure there are no community Have no community disruptions causing shut disruptions causing shut down or lost productivity In May we became a corporate supporter of the Extractive down or lost productivity to operated assets.
We are also involved in Business conduct supporting EITI activities through our participation in a number Anti-bribery and corruption Update and re-issue the Code of Business and Achieved.
However, as discussed in note 4.8 Run annual refresher training on the Code of Business of local multi-stakeholder groups.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and procedures and to the financial statements, Afren have notified Conduct for all personnel before the end of 2015. retrain all personnel.
Have no successful prosecutions the Serious Fraud Office of preliminary concerns Have no successful prosecutions or other legal actions or other legal actions brought against Afren for bribery in regards to an internal investigation.
brought against Afren for bribery or corruption.
Become a corporate supporter of the Continue to support the activities of the Extractive Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI.
Transactions with host governments 60 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Framework for 2015 EHSS targets 2014 target 2014 performance 2015 target Issue Environment and climate change Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Develop and disclose a comprehensive climate Afrens climate change strategy was reviewed change strategy.
and approved by the Board in December and can be found on the Companys website.
from the 2014 total of 513,034 tonnes of CO e. 2 Flaring Review and confirm accuracy of reported GHG Completed.
We are evaluating the feasibility emissions in particular for flaring and set flaring of gas injection at the Ebok field and will set reduction targets for 2015. flaring reduction targets for 2015.
Conduct environmental social impact assessments Completed for all new projects in 2014.
Spills to the environment Achieve a target of fewer than three spills Achieved.
Discharges to be within limits and fewer than three Not achieved.
Discharges to water Monitor and report total oil discharges to the excursions over the limits during the year.
Install new produced water treatment equipment Not achieved.
To agree a produced water compliance plan with the at Okoro and Ebok to ensure discharge quality is Nigerian Department of Petroleum Resources for the maintained as water volumes increase.
Waste Record and report tonnages of hazardous and non Achieved.
Record and report wastes that are recycled.
Develop and implement a consistent framework for Substantially completed.
Framework has been Audits and management systems Complete the roll out of the environmental environmental management across operated assets, developed and will be fully rolled out during management framework across the Company.
Health and Safety Drive down the LTIF and TRIR values.
Achieve an LTIF Achieved improved LTIF down 31.4% and TRIR Continue to improve safety performance by achieving Occupational injury of below 0.92 and a TRIR below 2.77. down 28.2% performance which was better a reduction in LTIF and TRIR below the 2014 values.
Process safety and asset integrity Fewer than five process integrity breaches Achieved.
Fewer than five process integrity breaches Loss of Primary Containment resulting in Loss of Primary Containment resulting in release of hydrocarbons in operated assets.
to have at least one EHSS objective in their annual security situation in both Nigeria and Kurdistan.
Promote the reporting and investigation of near misses.
Incident notification To develop and execute a plan for ongoing training and exercising of the corporate crisis Crisis management Review and re-issue the corporate Crisis Management Achieved.
Plan and hold an exercise.
Ensure security risk assessments are conducted for Completed.
Establish a system for quality assurance of security measures.
People All operations senior managers above grade 9 to Achieved.
We aim to revitalise the Afren EHSS culture during Health and safety culture have at least one EHSS objective in their annual the course of 2015.
This will include a fundamental performance targets.
review of the corporate policies and procedures and an awareness campaign to promote the Afren Safety Champion rules which address key areas of safety risk and appropriate controls.
Communities Local community impact Implement a consistent framework for engagement Achieved.
To continue to effectively engage with our local with local communities across all operations.
communities to ensure there are no community Have no community disruptions causing shut disruptions causing shut down or lost productivity down or lost productivity to operated assets.
Business conduct Anti-bribery and corruption Update and re-issue the Code of Business and Achieved.
However, as discussed in note 4.8 Run annual refresher training on the Code of Business Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and procedures and to the financial statements, Afren have notified Conduct for all personnel before the end of 2015. retrain all personnel.
Transactions with host governments Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Environment and climate change Key objective Greenhouse gas emissions We will minimise the effects of our activities on the environment, Reporting and transparency promote conservation and biodiversity and meet the climate During 2014 the Company responded to change challenge.
the increasing level of interest in its approach to climate change matters from its investors Policy highlights and other stakeholders in a number of ways.
We will comply with the relevant local and national The Company has been publishing its greenhouse regulations, frameworks, guidelines, globally applicable gas emissions for several years and consequently standards and best practice at all times.
was able to comply with the new UK legal The Company designed and put in place a climate change reporting requirements in its last annual strategy in 2014 which is available on the Companys website.
report through this established process.
We will conserve resources and protect the environment Afren has also been participating in and where we operate and minimise any adverse impacts responding to investor research organisations resulting from our operations.
that focus on climate change in a variety of ways.
We will actively investigate methods for flaring reduction, One example of this is the more rigorous review including re-injecting gas back into the ground and applying of the risks and opportunities associated with it to power equipment.
climate change which was reported in the annual We will apply re-use and recycling methods wherever possible exercise managed by Carbon Disclosure Project throughout our operations.
CDP is a global investor-led research organisation that collects and distributes We will minimise waste generation and dispose of waste responsibly.
climate change data and information from We will minimise our use of water in areas where it is scarce internationally listed companies.
This resulted in a and carefully control our discharges to water.
substantial rise in the Companys disclosure rating We will regularly monitor our environmental performance from 37 to 77, which was one of the biggest at senior management and Board level.
increases recorded by a FTSE 350 company.
We will encourage dialogue and stakeholder participation in the In December the Company also published and industrys approach to environmental matters and climate change.
invited comment on its climate change strategy which is included on its website.
This acknowledges System highlights the challenges presented to the oil industry by The Companys Chief Operating Officer is responsible for the this issue and discusses the Companys view on Companys management of environmental and climate issues the roles of government and the energy industry and is supported by the Head of EHSS and the EHSS department.
It outlines the risks and All new exploration and production projects are the subject opportunities that climate change presents of our established and detailed environmental assessment to Afren and describes how the organisation process before they proceed.
This includes an examination approaches the issue.
The strategy also highlights of significant potential effects on flora, fauna, biodiversity, what we see as the main drivers for Greenhouse use of scarce resources, use of water, greenhouse gas Gas GHG emission reductions and what we emissions and how related risks for example of spills and see as our short and long-term aims.
We have pollution are mitigated.
The assessments are conducted in line also committed to engage with our external with industry best practice and the appropriate national and stakeholders about our approach and have international standards.
We have a detailed environmental management system that For 2014 we were supported with the collation applies to all our operations.
and reporting of GHG emissions by Ecometrica, We devise site level biodiversity action plans where these are a specialist UK company that has also supplied required and source, where possible, resources from suppliers us with advice and guidance on data collection, operating a certification scheme.
emissions factors and GHG calculations: they also We have weekly for senior operations management, monthly closely examine the information produced to for senior operations management and Executive Directors ensure accuracy and consistency.
and quarterly for the Board reporting mechanisms for our environmental performance.
Incident reports are completed immediately and distributed to senior operations management and the Executive Directors.
We are committed to conducting environmental management systems that are aligned to or certified against ISO14001.
We engage a third party specialist to conduct periodic environmental audits against ISO14001 standards, policies and procedures.
62 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance We conduct comprehensive environmental assessment Emissions by location 2014 procedures concerning all our suppliers and contractors that Percentage of total 717,422 tonnes are conducted as part of the contract and procurement process.
of CO e equivalent 2 Our approach to our environment and climate change issues Nigeria 97% is outlined in our Code of Business Conduct.
All employees Cote d'Ivoire 0.8% and contractors received training on the Codes requirements East Africa 0.05% during 2014 and this is also a feature of our new employee Kurdistan 2.1% induction procedures.
Corporate ofces 0.08% GHG emissions Baseline and reporting year As reported last year we have been collecting data on our greenhouse gas emissions since 2009.
Consequently, we have chosen 2009 as the baseline year for our emissions reporting.
Emissions by activity 2014 Percentage of total 717,422 tonnes Our reporting period for our emissions data continues to of CO e equivalent 2 be consistent with the Companys financial reporting period, Ofces 0.1% being the calendar year ending 31 December 2014.
Production 12% Organisation and operating boundaries Flaring 74% Drilling 10% We report all of the emissions from the assets where we are Seismic 2.3% the operator and therefore have operational control.
We do Construction 1.7% not report emissions from our joint venture operations where one of our Partners is the operator, as in these instances we do not have operational control.
In terms of our operating boundaries, we have continued to report emissions associated with all field activities, whether Intensity ratio they be related to production, drilling or seismic activities, Tonnes CO e 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon produced 2 transportation or logistics: this includes all contracted services associated with the running of the field.
600 500 450 We have captured data on both Scope 1, direct emissions 400 and Scope 2, indirect emissions.
Scope 2 emissions are currently 300 limited to those associated with electricity use in our offices 200 and make up less than 0.1% of our emissions.
100 Methodology 0 As previously reported, our direct emissions are generally calculated from fuel use data, whether gas used to power turbines and other equipment, gas flared or diesel used in generators.
Calculations are made for carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, being the main gases produced through the combustion process.
We then calculate carbon dioxide equivalent CO e based on the relative 2 global warming potential of each gas.
In this way the carbon footprint for the business can be expressed as a single number.
The other greenhouse gases, hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, perfluorocarbons PFCs and sulphur hexafluoride, are not closely associated with oil and gas exploration and production.
The total emissions of these gases are therefore expected to be small and have not been calculated.
Factors for flared gas were sourced from the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC s Environmental Emissions Monitoring System EEMS Atmospheric Emissions Calculations guidance.
This guidance provides the environmental database for the UK oil and gas industry and provides measured and calculated data relating to emissions from offshore installations and associated onshore terminals.
This particular guidance was chosen as Afren is based in the UK and to ensure consistency with the methodology applied previously.
We improved our calculation of GHGs emitted as a result of electricity consumption at our offices by applying geographically appropriate emission factors from the EPA eGRID, IEA.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 TonnesCO e 2 Environment and climate change continued Emission reductions Waste management As reported in the 2013 Annual Report, flaring represents over In 2014 we conducted waste audits at our assets in Nigeria 50% of Afrens current GHG emissions.
Failure to address this andKurdistan to help understand the potential liabilities and issue risks reputational damage and criticism from the Companys opportunities for waste reduction.
We have now begun more shareholders and other key stakeholders.
As a consequence, detailed monitoring and analysis of waste quantities and have wehave been evaluating for some time the possibility of gas identified areas where we can make significant cost reductions re-injection at the Ebok field as a means of avoiding flaring.
A summary of the quantities of These studies are nearing completion and we will be targeting wastes generated in 2014 is given in the table below.
a5% reduction in flaring during the course of 2015.
Produced water Spills The authorities in Nigeria are changing the produced water We recorded two oil spills to the environment of approximately guidelines for oil industry operations to require zero discharge one barrel each.
All spills occurred at our offshore operations inshallow waters.
We are required to demonstrate that we are inNigeria and were reported to the local regulators.
addressing this by taking steps to ensure that all produced water is re-injected back into the ground.
In 2015 we intend to put in place Spill response exercises were conducted at our operating sites plans to meet these requirements at the Okoro and Ebok fields.
atEbok, Okoro and Barda Rash.
Lessons learned from these have been fed back into the spill response plans at each location.
Waste generated in 2014 Non-Haz kgs Haz kgs Sludge kgs Total kgs Field Un-segregated kgs General waste Okoro 98,393 35,472 54,500 188,365 230,695 17,082 Ebok 22,653 270,430 OML 115 Ameena well 13,500 8,900 22,400 6,474 Barda Rash 6,474 Total 487,669 Cuttings waste 3,350,200 Ebok cuttings 1,775,800 Okoro cuttings OML 115 1,281,700 Ameena well cuttings 6,407,700 Total Cuttings Tank Cleaning 1,989,272 Waste oil 4,102 4,102 Barda Rash 64 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Health and Safety Key objective We will promote a healthy and safe workplace at all times and at every location.
Policy highlights We will comply with the relevant local and national regulations, frameworks, guidelines, globally applicable standards and best practice at all times.
We will establish and apply health and safety standards across all of our businesses according to industry best practice and ensure that they are communicated to all our employees and contractors.
We will regularly monitor our environmental performance at senior management and Board level.
We will encourage and promote knowledge sharing around the business and within our peer group to ensure that the causes of incidents are fully understood and health and safety risks are minimised.
We will ensure that all of our employees and contractors have the necessary health and safety skills and expertise by applying regular training, communication and education methods in line with industry best practice.
The Companys use of armed guards is dictated by our evaluation of security issues and related levels of risk.
Where private armed security is not permitted Nigeria and East Africa we work with the local police and government security forces.
We use private armed security in Kurdistan for journey management.
In all instances we work within the laws of the country where we operate and in line with our international human rights obligations.
Safety performance Overall safety performance improved significantly System highlights in 2014.
There was a notable fall in both the The Companys Chief Operating Officer is responsible for the Lost Time Injury Frequency or LTIF by 31.4% Companys management of health and safety issues and is and the Total Recordable Incident Rate or TRIR supported by the Head of EHSS and the EHSS department.
The Company is committed to the All new exploration and production projects are the subject of provision of a healthy and safe workplace and our established and detailed health and safety assessment process took steps to improve its health and safety before they proceed.
This includes a thorough examination of supervision at all of its production and exploration risk associated with personal injury, fire, explosion and security.
We intend to ensure that The assessments are conducted in line with industry best practice this improvement is maintained in 2015.
Our and the appropriate national and international standards.
plans include the conduct of a health and safety communications campaign based around our We have a detailed health and safety management system that new Champion Safety Rules.
A health and safety applies to all our operations.
film has already been completed and the intention We have weekly for senior operations management, monthly is for this to be the focus of the activity along for senior operations management and Executive Directors with related training and development initiatives.
Total recordable injury rate TRIR All new employees and contractors receive health and safety Lost time injury frequency LTIF training as part of their induction processes.
Health and safety Incidents per million man hours worked training for employees and contractors is conducted regularly at TRIR LTIF the Companys production facilities and periodically elsewhere.
The Company is developing its internal communications and training systems to raise awareness of health and safety and reduce the risk of incidents.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 9.33 1.96 1.47 2.52 1.80 2.41 0.22 0.53 1.05 0.72 Communities Key objective Community project highlights We will contribute positively to our local communities and work Afren and its Partners invested nearly $9m in community in partnership with them to generate shared economic wealth projects in Nigeria during 2014 with an outreach of over and mutually beneficial outcomes.
The most prominent programmes included the two mentioned below and our participation in the Ejike Policy highlights Foundation basketball camps.
We will comply with the relevant local and national regulations, frameworks, guidelines, globally applicable The Technical Skills Acquisition Programme TSAP empowers standards and best practice at all times.
young people in our host communities with important technical and vocational skills.
TSPA students are equipped We support the principles contained within the UN Declaration with entrepreneurial skills, start-up funding and starter packs of Human Rights.
We endeavour to ensure that this tailored to their training specialities to enable them to open commitment extends to our supply chain and our contractors.
131 beneficiaries took part in this We support the principles contained within the UN Declaration programme in 2014. on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in particular those relating to education, health, language, identity, culture and employment.
Afren and its Partner Amni funded the construction of three jetties for the communities of Eastern Okoro.
Additional work We aim to ensure that the widest possible level of local was also performed to shore protection facilities to prevent agreement and support is obtained for our projects and that erosion and coastal flooding.
These facilities increased the this is maintained throughout their duration.
accessibility of the communities and consequently improved We are committed to conducting regular dialogue with the quality of life for over 1,000 local people.
governments, our local communities and other stakeholders about community and human rights matters.
The Ejike Foundation arranges for talented local people to be trained by leading basketball and American Football coaches.
System highlights This project, funded by Afren and its Partners, has led to The Companys Chief Operating Officer is responsible for over 100 local people gaining admission to American high the Companys management of community matters and is schools and colleges through sports scholarships.
Over 600 supported by the Head of EHSS and the Companys community people took part during 2014. teams.
The teams are also responsible for promoting and monitoring the Companys approach to diversity and equal opportunities across the business.
Community affairs developments during the year The Companys community and human rights policy, approach M&E framework development and performance is regularly monitored by the Board and its In 2014, the Company decided to develop its monitoring senior management.
Community and human rights issues are also and evaluation M&E framework for its community projects.
incorporated into the Companys risk management processes.
The aims are to improve our assessment processes so that All new exploration and production projects are the subject they are more robust and consistent and to enable their of our established and detailed social impact process before results to be applied more effectively in future projects.
This includes a thorough examination of impacts The framework was developed in conjunction with an on local communities, an assessment of local human rights, experienced external advisor.
A theoretical version was and, if applicable, indigenous rights, matters and consultation developed after reviewing the relevant literature.
We then processes with local stakeholders.
reviewed the data for two projects and adapted it to fit with We take a systematic approach to our community projects the Companys programmes.
We pilot tested it on two of our by identifying local stakeholders, assessing and measuring larger community programmes the Technical Skills Acquisition social, community and human rights related risk and need.
Programme and the Jetties Project.
The strategic elements of The Company maintains dedicated community investment the framework included identifying areas of need, the resources teams in Nigeria, Kurdistan and East Africa and a corporate and activities required to address them, the immediate outputs level team in Houston.
and outcomes and the longer-term impacts.
It was tested using During the lifetime of our projects we regularly monitor our stakeholder dialogue processes that included discussions with community relationships and conduct periodic audits and beneficiaries, local community leaders, project partners and assessments to ensure that our aims are being achieved.
Our approach to our communities and human rights issues The results highlighted a number of matters which we intend is outlined in our Code of Business Conduct.
All employees to address in future projects.
We identified that data collection and contractors received training on the Codes requirements methods needed to be more culturally sensitive students were during 2014 and this is also a feature of our new employee more inclined to respond than older people for instance.
concluded that we should take into account the often complex The Company conducts a number of training and development relationships that exist in our communities that may affect the programmes which are tailored to individual needs and roles.
The importance of obtaining early support for projects was also shown to be helpful in avoiding subsequent disagreements on objectives and activities.
66 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Business conduct Key objective System highlights We will conduct all of our business activities fairly.
All employees and contractors received training by the end of December 2014 in the requirements of the new Afren Policy highlights Code of Business Conduct.
It now forms part of the induction All Company employees will adhere to the 15 commitments process for all new personnel employees and contractors.
that are included in our new Code of Business Conduct.
The Company maintains an ABC Register.
This is a permanent This was approved by the Board in December 2014. record of all Company gifts, hospitality, entertainment and We prohibit political donations and will not directly charitable donations except for very small expenditure items.
or indirectly participate in political activities.
The Register is maintained on the Company intranet and all staff members are required to record these types of Everyone will seek advice in advance about any issue where transaction when they are made.
It is reviewed every three there may be a conflict of interest between personal issues months by the Anti-Bribery Committee, comprising senior and those of the Company.
staff from our legal and finance departments.
A committee We are resolutely opposed to bribery and corruption report is examined by the Afren Audit and Risk Committee.
and prohibit the use of facilitation payments.
We have an independently run whistle-blowing process Company purchases of goods and services are made solely on that is managed by Safecall, a well-known specialist in this the basis of price, quality, value and benefit to the Company.
Safecalls call handlers have considerable investigative We will ensure that our relationships with our customers and experience and the facility is available at all times of the day suppliers are conducted in a fair and proper manner at all times.
We regularly monitor our bribery and corruption levels of risk as part of day-to-day operations at all levels of the business.
Our anti-bribery and corruption policies extend to our supplier contracts.
We have an experienced and knowledgeable investor relations team that ensure that we conduct regular dialogue and communications with our current and potential shareholders.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Business conduct continued Our new Code of Business Conduct Becoming a company supporter During 2014, we undertook a project which aimed to completely ofthe Extractive Industries re-design the Companys Code of Business Conduct and to train Transparency Initiative EITI all employees and contractors on its requirements.
It was led by an experienced external specialist advisor with input from the Afren demonstrated its commitment to financial legal, EHSS and human resources departments.
transparency in May when we became a company supporter of EITI.
Following the suspension of the Companys CEO and COO at the end of July, the project was extended to include a more The organisation is a coalition of governments, detailed training exercise.
Skillcast, an external software specialist companies and civil society working together to which supports companies in developing their business conduct improve openness and accountable management approach and training staff, was engaged to support this aspect of revenues from natural resources.
After a review by our legal advisors, the completed version robust methodology for monitoring and reconciling of the Code was approved by the Board and presented to staff company payments and government revenues at during the second week of December.
A downloadable version the country level.
was made available on the Companys website.
We have already been playing a role in EITIs The Code contains 15 commitments which govern the activities activities through our participation in the of staff members and contractors.
They embrace all aspects organisations multi-stakeholder groups in some of the organisations business.
They address bribery, gifts and of the countries where our operations are located.
entertainment, conflicts of interest, sanctions, use of Company We support and comply with the relevant reporting information technology, use of Company physical assets, processes in each country.
We also endorse the personal information, business information, environment and EU and UK governments commitment to ensure climate change, health and safety, communities, human rights, that listed and other large oil, gas and mining inclusive workplace behaviour, working with others and dealing companies disclose payments to governments on in Company securities.
Each commitments section contains a project-by-project and country-by-country basis.
guidance on the Companys approach.
The Code also explains how the Company addresses corporate responsibility matters and contains advice on what personnel should do if they are aware of Code breaches.
This information also highlights the Companys confidential whistle-blowing hotline which is run by Safecall, a specialist provider, together with information on when and how to use it.
A training exercise was undertaken in December which required all staff and contractors to complete an online module by the end of the year.
This involved reading the entire text of the new Code.
It also tested everyones understanding of our commitments by requiring each person to answer three questions about possible business scenarios relating to each one 45 in total.
Three possible answers were supplied with the respondent being asked to select the one that they believed to be the most appropriate.
The preferred Company approach was then highlighted together with an explanation as to why this was the case.
We have been pleased with the results of this exercise with 69% of all responses being correct and with consistent scoring across all locations and job grades.
We have identified a number of common areas where scoring was lower than the average and we intend to address these through the conduct of further training exercises in due course.
We are confident that our new Code and the associated training procedures represent industry best practice.
The projects completion demonstrated our determination to address the issues which led to the departure of two of the Companys Executive Directors and two other senior managers in the second half of 2014.
We welcome stakeholder feedback to our new Code.
This can be submitted by using the dedicated email address, which is CodeofConduct@afren.
68 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance People Key objective Senior staff as at December 2013 We will be a first class and responsible employer.
Policy highlights Male 33 We will comply with the relevant local and national Female 6 employment regulations, frameworks, guidelines, globally applicable standards and best practice at all times.
We support the four fundamental principles contained in the International Labour Organization Declaration.
We will not discriminate on the basis of gender, colour, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
We will ensure that employment with us is freely chosen.
We prohibit the use of forced and child labour throughout our operations and supply chain.
All staff as at December 2013 We will promote diversity and equality of opportunity throughout our business.
We will ensure that our people policies are adopted and Male 183 adhered to by our contractors.
Female 113 System highlights The Companys Chief Operating Officer is responsible for the Companys management of people matters and is supported by the Director of Human Resources and the Companys dedicated HR teams.
The teams responsibilities include promoting and monitoring the Companys approach to diversity and equal opportunities across the business.
We have an experienced and knowledgeable human resources Senior staff as at December 2014 team to manage our people and contractor relationships.
We monitor and measure a variety of diversity measures across the business including age, ethnic origin and gender.
Male 33 Female 6 Our training and development processes extend to our contractors as well as our employees.
We maintain and are developing a Company-wide intranet system to facilitate communication around the business.
We have an Employee Assistance Programme EAP.
This is a confidential and impartial service that has been set up to provide advice and support, whenever and wherever it is needed.
The Company has training and development programmes All staff as at December 2014 which are available to all staff and contractors.
These are tailored according to the needs of each individual and their roles.
The Company also provides training and development Male 202 initiatives that are open to all staff and take the form of Female 117 online learning programmes.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69
