oUR PeoPLe Learning & development To be the best we have to attract One of the main focus areas for our learning and development and retain people of the highest team this year has been the roll out of our integrated business planning process which followed the reorganisation of our calibre.
To achieve this we offer business into a single One Dairy Crest structure.
The extensive employees a wide range of training training that has taken place, which will continue this year, focuses on the working processes and behaviours to achieve and development opportunities, optimum performance from our new business model.
Once fully implemented, integrated business planning will enhance ensure the vast majority of forecasting and give employees more empowerment to deliver employees have access to a our overall strategy.
bonus or incentive scheme and have introduced policies that help encourage people to achieve a healthier work life balance.
Our Eden engineering and technology apprenticeship programmes, run by MGTS and Reaseheath College respectively, continue to go from strength-to-strength.
Launched in 2012 the engineering programme is a four year, full time academic and work based advanced apprenticeship.
This provides participants with a comprehensive understanding of the dairy industry, a NVQ Level 3 in engineering systems and a BTEC Level 3 in operations and maintenance engineering.
The technology programme, now in its fifth year, is helping us find and develop the technical and operational leaders of tomorrow, which is vital for the future of dairy processing in the UK.
As part of the programme, students learn key science principles associated with dairy and process improvement techniques required to run an efficient modern dairy operation.
8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 thinking differently investing in our front line management employee engagement Manufacturing sites have been running development We strive to improve employee engagement as this programmes focusing on core management skills, and delivers improved customer service and productivity.
After encouraging managers to learn together in teams.
These a year of considerable change in the business there was, programmes benefit from the active support and involvement understandably, a slight decrease in our overall employee of the site senior managers, providing the context and engagement score.
Encouragingly, this does remain background to the programme and ensuring effective transfer above the UK average and staff told us we had many of of learning to achieve maximum business benefit.
the attributes in place to be a high performing company, including, commitment to great customer service, high product quality and continually looking for ways to improve.
Since 2010 As a result of the survey, local action plans have been put in place and progress will be regularly monitored by the Management Board.
One of the most important ways of enhancing engagement is by ensuring that staff know what is happening across the 1,570 business in a timely fashion.
To help accomplish this we have in place several staff communication channels including of our people have registered on our an intranet which can be accessed at work and at home, online e-learning portal and weekly and bi-monthly staff briefings.
In addition to this Dairy Crest also runs an annual strategy roadshow that all As well as providing our staff with face-to-face training we employees are invited to attend.
Last year 177 sessions took also continue to invest in our online development offering so place across our workplaces with 76% attendance an increase that staff can enhance their skills and knowledge.
Since 2010 on the previous year of over 10%.
Finally, our CEO, Mark Allen, 1,570of our people have registered on our online e-learning hosts employee lunches once a month at different workplaces portal and made use of the extensive suite of courses on where staff have the opportunity to hear business updates and offer.
ask the questions important to them.
Looking to the future and developing the skills of young people, Dairy Crest provides expertise and support in a Diversity number of areas.
Our mission for diversity and inclusion at Dairy Crest is for all In response to a recognised shortage of people studying of our people to feel valued, listened to and able to reach their food science in the UK, we continue to sponsor A-Level and potential.
We will attract, develop and retain from the widest pool GCSE course places at Nottingham and Reading universities of talent because we truly believe that it is key to our business Food Science summer schools.
In 2013 we continued our success.
support for the IGDs Feeding Britains Future programme We recognise that diversity brings fresh ideas and which saw employees from across Dairy Crest support innovations to improve our products, services and working over 400 unemployed young people in their quest to get a practices, delivering commercial benefit and shareholder value.
Building on last years events held at Davidstow and Employees are encouraged to reach their full potential Nuneaton, this year we also held over 30 joint events with regardless of their age, gender, marital status, disability, Sainsburys, Asda and Marks & Spencer at their stores or in nationality, colour, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religious the local job centres.
The Company will not tolerate discrimination or harassment on any of these grounds.
In 2014 we will re-launch our Diversity Committee to reflect the One Dairy Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 9 Strategic report OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED Crest structure, having recently agreed membership and Finally, were proud that we have in place a recognition objectives to further drive our progress in this area.
scheme that means any member of staff can nominate People who are able to balance their working life with another employee for an award that carries with it a financial their private life are not only happier but they are also more reward.
Last year 551 such awards were approved.
To help make sure we achieve this at Dairy as celebrating individual achievements we have a team of Crest we allow staff from all areas of the business to apply the year award recognising the great innovations that can be for flexible working hours.
In addition, we offer employees made when employees work well together.
the opportunity to take sabbaticals and to undertake voluntary work.
Our maternity and paternity leave policies are significantly above the statutory minimum.
All employees, regardless of their status, location or role should feel that they are treated flexibly in their ways of working according to Over 90% business needs.
of our workforce now participate in Gender prole a workplace pension scheme All employees Senior management Female Female 17% 23% Male Male 83% 77% Reward and recognition We know that being valued and recognised at work is important.
To this end, alongside a range of market leading benefits including pension and holiday entitlements above statutory levels, the vast majority of employees are members of a bonus or incentive scheme which is linked to either personal or site company performance.
To share further in the Companys success, all employees are invited on a regular basis to join a sharesave scheme.
Pension auto-enrolment went live in April 2013 with over 90% of our workforce now participating in a workplace pension scheme that after a years service offers an employers contribution above that required by law.
Recently we have launched a supporting, bespoke pensions and retirement infosite to encourage responsible retirement saving.
