Strategic report Directors report Accounts Corporate responsibility Our approach to corporate responsibility We are committed to: A commitment to doing business responsibly is not only about doing the right thing.
Building relationships with customers, suppliers, communities, Embedding the highest investors and employees based on ethical values and behaviours and responsible business practice helps us earn trust and ethical standards throughout attract and retain talent.
Positive actions with respect to corporate responsibility not only create wider benefits for society but our business also contribute to our commercial success.
Accountability Responsibility for assessing the impact Keeping employees safe of corporate responsibility issues on the Group and setting appropriate policies lies with the Board.
The Chief Executive and secure when they is the Board member with designated responsibility, supported by the Executive Committee, the Risk Committee, and are at work the Health, Safety and Environment Committee, whose responsibilities include making recommendations on health, safety and environmental strategy and identifying Building positive areas for improvement.
Ethics All employees and business partners are relationships within the required to follow our Code of Business Principles when they are representing communities where fide La Rue.
Training on the Code is an integral part of our employee induction process and third party partners all receive we operate training on the Code and the standards of ethical behaviour expected by fide La Rue.
Since the Code of Business Principles was launched in 2011, a steering group Minimising the impact of senior employees meets regularly to look at ways to ensure that the principles are embedded in everything we do.
of our operations on the During the year a team of site based Ethics Champions was appointed to help us environment understand and respond to the needs of each site in a focused and effective way and ensure that each site has local support and representation for Code of Business Engaging with our Principles related matters.
In May 2014 Ethics Champions attended a training conference in the UK to ensure they are employees fully equipped for the role.
Our whistleblowing policy and procedures are reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
They enable employees who have concerns about the application of the Code of Business Principles or business practices within the Group to raise them either internally or anonymously through the fide La Rue CodeLine, a telephone and email helpline operated by an independent third party.
The Board and Audit Committee receive details about any issue raised and how it has been followed up.
The Ethics Committee, made up entirely of Non-executive Directors, is responsible for monitoring and advising the Board on ethical matters.
For further information see pages 36 to 37. fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 25 Corporate responsibility continued Third party partners We have continued to invest in and improve Regular conference calls, open to All applications for the appointment our fire risk management with several sites all employees, were hosted by the or renewal of third party partners are upgrading sprinkler systems or equipment Chief Executive and questions invited.
managed by a central team which reports with specific fire suppression systems.
For those unable to attend the calls, directly to the General Counsel and an audio recording is made available.
We have managed to reduce both our Company Secretary.
The process is subject Videos of strategy updates are also number of lost time accidents and the to audit and external verification.
All third made available to all sites.
total days lost due to accidental injuries party partners are subject to appropriate by 30 per cent and injuries by 18 per cent.
A user group has been established due diligence and receive training covering With continuing organisational changes we to review how our company intranet anti-bribery and corruption, competition have successfully maintained our positive is used by employees and how it should law and third party partner policy.
safety culture and excellent internal be developed to better meet the needs Human rights reporting processes and continue to of the business.
fide La Rue fully supports the principles engage employees in our safety training fide La Rue engages regularly with the set out in the UN Universal Declaration programmes.
This year we have achieved unions representing our employees and of Human Rights, in particular with regard our targeted reportable injury rate see with the UK and European Works Councils.
to equal opportunity and freedom from graph on page 11 and we will continue In addition to an annual joint UK and discrimination, fair working conditions, to set robust health and safety objectives European Works Council meeting at which freedom of association and collective and targets.
We continue to run the annual senior management present business bargaining and the prohibition of forced health, safety and environment corporate updates, steering group meetings for both and child labour.
Our Code of Business standards audit programme identifying forums are held throughout the year.
Principles covers human rights issues opportunities to improve and track the including whistleblowing, employment agreed actions.
Equality and diversity principles, health and safety, and protecting Our policy is to treat all employees Our health and safety objectives for personal information.
These principles fairly and equally in recruitment, training, 2014 15 are: are underpinned by specific global Group development, promotion and in terms policies and other relevant local workplace To align our HSE internal audit programme and conditions of employment irrespective policies which the business is required with the operational excellence programme of their sex, transgender status, sexual to follow.
orientation, religion or belief, marital To achieve a reportable injury rate per status, civil partnership status, age, Health and safety 100,000 employees of 310 or lower colour, nationality, national origin, We have a responsibility to safeguard To ensure that all older machinery is ethnic origin, disability or trade union the health and safety of all stakeholders assessed with regard to the latest EU membership or affiliation.
If an employee affected by our operations and keeping machinery safety standards becomes disabled when in the Groups employees safe and secure when they employment, full support is given through are at work and travelling on business is To maintain our OHSAS18001 the provision of special training, equipment a priority.
Clearly defined responsibilities, certification at all supply chain or other resources to facilitate continued good communication and training, manufacturing sites employment wherever possible.
hazard spotting, risk assessments and People implementing appropriate controls at all Every manager and employee has a Communication of our facilities help us to achieve this.
responsibility to ensure that our equal Following feedback from employees we opportunities policy is implemented.
All of our supply chain manufacturing sites have continued to improve communication have maintained OHSAS18001 certification at our supply chain sites.
In addition to daily To the extent permitted by relevant local for their health and safety management site walkabouts by heads of operations laws, the Group collects certain data on systems, which is externally audited by and site management, weekly and monthly staff diversity.
scheduled team briefings take place to Gender diversity keep employees fully informed of business During the year no fide La Rue operation Employees by gender as at 29 March 2014 developments.
Monthly briefings by the was prosecuted for infringing any health Male 2,909 73% managing director, supply chain, are now and safety laws or regulations.
However, open to front line managers as well as Female 1,066 27% we had one improvement notice issued middle managers and heads of operations.
by the Health and Safety Executive to the Total 3,975 Human resources representatives also Gateshead site in respect of legionella ensure that they are accessible to employees management controls relating to a small by regularly touring our factory floors.
cooling tower and all recommended Senior managers by gender as at 29 March 2014 actions were quickly closed.
As well as regular newsletters, all hands Male 50 85% calls for the Currency and Solutions The Executive Committee and the Female 9 15% businesses are held, supplemented by Board receive confirmation that all sites more informal lunch meetings.
These Total 59 comply with Group health, safety and forums give employees the opportunity to environmental policies and any applicable ask questions directly to the management legislation through external and internal Directors by gender as at 29 March 2014 teams.
The exchange of information audits on their management systems.
between business areas and functions Male 4 67% Sites are measured against any corrective is encouraged either via invitation to speak actions identified and these reports are Female 2 33% at briefings or articles in newsletters.
used to develop effective improvement Total 6 programmes.
During the year members of the Executive Committee visited our main sites around fide La Rue works with its main suppliers For further information about Board the world to explain Group strategy.
and contractors to ensure their health and diversity, see page 37.
A toolkit of materials to support the Living safety processes are robust.
Our focus Our Values campaign is now being rolled on machinery safety continues, with many out across sites to help embed them into improvements completed this year.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 26 Strategic report Directors report Accounts Training and development Using an operational control approach Overton mill cleans and returns to the river During the year our human resources the Group has collected activity data and at least 95 per cent of water abstracted, strategy was approved by the Board.
reported on all material GHG emissions which provides an important and valuable Our vision is a highly engaged, high including scopes 1 and 2 and an expanded contribution to the ecology of the region.
performing workforce, aligned and focused range of scope 3.
The validity and Examples of environmental achievements on the key goals, with the capability to completeness of the data were checked over the past year include: deliver sustainable growth.
To deliver both internally and by Carbon Clear, with this vision, supported by newly articulated the internally assured data being used to Maintained ISO14001 certification that values, the foundations of our strategy are calculate the GHG emissions for the Group.
is independently externally audited for based on key improvements in five areas: KPMG LLP also reviewed the process used all supply chain manufacturing sites with for collecting and analysing the data.
only a few minor non-conformances Leadership which were promptly rectified The calculations performed follow the Talent management ISO-14064-1:2006 standard and the Reduction in our solid waste going Engagement results presented in the table on page to landfill sites by 24 per cent over the 28 give absolute and intensity factors three year period against our target of Capability for Group emissions.
The Group uses 10 per cent Performance renewable energy and exports electricity A reduced carbon footprint and improved to the grid at some sites.
These practices Initiatives launched so far include a utilisation of fixed energy loads following have been quantified and accounted for leadership capability programme, which the closure of two UK sites and the against the Groups gross GHG emissions replaces the personal development review absorption of many of the activities into to show a net reduction.
process for the senior leadership team.
other UK sites resulted in a saving of over The programme defines a set of seven Improvements to data collection techniques 3,000 tCO2e in scope 1 and 2 emissions competencies against which the senior and calculation methods mean comparison Reduction in our scope 1 and 2 carbon leadership team has been assessed, and with prior performance in most areas is not emissions tCO2e from our direct the Executive Committee conduct quarterly relevant.
The emissions intensity, which is consumption of energy by over 12 per reviews of the assessments.
Training reported relative to Group revenues is 210 cent over three years beating our plan modules have been developed to support net tCO2e per m turnover which will be of 10 per cent approximate reductions these key competencies.
a new benchmark for the future.
of 3 per cent each year for three years Personal development reviews have Water used per gross tonne of banknote Environmental objectives for 2014 15 are to: been updated and aligned so performance paper produced is dependent on product measures are entirely consistent across the mix and volume and also reflects Maintain ISO14001 certification for all Group.
The talent management process complexity of specifications and security supply chain manufacturing sites and has also been reviewed and updated to features.
Water usage in absolute terms work towards certification for two other ensure that performance and potential increased by 17 per cent compared areas of the business criteria are better reflected and thus future with the prior year reflecting increased Reduce solid waste sent to landfill by capability and talent are better identified production volumes, smaller production 3 per cent each year during the three and assessed.
runs, more machine cleans changeovers year period ending in 2016 17 and tighter paper specifications resulting Two dedicated trainers have been rolling in less water recycling.
The water used per Reduce our direct energy consumption out an operational excellence training gross tonne of banknote paper produced in tCO2e relative to Group revenue by programme to leaders across our supply was up 5.5 per cent.
Overton mill is 3 per cent each year during the three chain sites, from first level supervisory right one of fide La Rues major installations.
year period ending in 2016 17 up to the senior leadership team.
Training Its sole water resource is groundwater, comprises three modules: Leadership, which is abstracted and in turn cleaned High Performing Teams and Align.
and discharged into the river Test, within To date training has been delivered 500 metres of the point of abstraction.
Recycled and recovered solid waste The river is classified as a Site of Special as a percentage of solid waste An Inspirational Managers training Scientific Interest protected by UK Percentage initiative was launched in April 2014, conservation regulations.
We share the which fully aligns with the operational keen interest shown by varied stakeholders excellence training and the leadership in ensuring that the water quality and capability programmes.
quantity is optimised for good ecology, and so follow best practice regarding our Environment use, treatment and release of freshwater.
The Group continues to measure 74 Our water treatment facilities meet and 73 72 72 greenhouse gas GHG emissions arising 71 exceed expected quality standards from all of the activities for which it is as stipulated within the installations responsible worldwide.
In response to environmental permit.
new mandatory reporting requirements the Group has undertaken a thorough review of its data collection and reporting programme with support from independent specialist consultants Carbon Clear.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 27 Corporate responsibility continued 1 Greenhouse gas emissions 2013 14 Customers Customer focus is a key part of our strategy.
Type of emissions Activity tCO2e % of total Direct scope 1 Natural gas 37,505 35 We have reviewed our approach to Other fuels 1,048 1 customer surveys, looking at ways of Process emissions 34 0 reaching more customers and using Fugitive emissions 234 0 different methods.
We have invested in Owned vehicles 75 0 software to enable the creation of bespoke questionnaires and our aim is to collect Subtotal 38,896 36 meaningful information about the marketplace as well as about fide La Rues Indirect scope 2 Electricity 40,177 37 products and services.
Subtotal 40,177 37 We attend relevant industry conferences to maximise personal contact with our customers.
Regional conferences and user Indirect other scope 3 Rail travel 2 0 group meetings are held on a regular basis Air travel 8,803 8 and we run an annual Advanced Banknote Non-owned vehicles 271 0 Manager course which is available to Water 1,956 2 our central bank and state print work 2 WTT all scopes 18,403 17 customers.
Subtotal 29,434 27 Suppliers fide La Rue applies consistent procurement Total gross emissions tCO2e 108,507 policies and processes to ensure Renewable electricity tCO2e 19 accountability and sustainable value for Electricity exported to grid tCO2e 891 money while minimising risk and enabling the Group to fulfil its legal and financial 107,597 obligations.
fide La Rue expects its suppliers to share the Groups commitment Intensity metric to best practice standards in health and safety and environmental matters.
Total gross emissions tCO2e 108,507 Suppliers are also required to meet defined Total net emissions tCO2e 107,597 quality, product security and business Revenue m 513 continuity standards.
Tonnes of gross CO2e per m 211 Tonnes of net CO2e per m 210 Suppliers are obliged to abide by the Groups Code of Business Principles and Notes the United Nations Convention on the 1 Prior year data is not available due to adoption of new reporting standards Rights of the Child and International Labour 2 Standard well to tank carbon calculation Organisation Conventions 138 and 182.
As part of our ongoing procurement Community and charitable donations The Group operates a Give As You programme we will continue to monitor our The 200 For Good initiative was an Earn scheme in the UK which enables key cotton comber and linter suppliers.
integral part of our 200 year celebrations employees to make regular donations to during 2013.
Employees at our sites charity from their pre-tax monthly salary.
fide La Rue subscribes to the policies in the around the world were encouraged to Donations are matched by fide La Rue up UK Governments Prompt Payment Code.
support local causes and they rose to the to 500 per employee per annum.
We undertake to pay suppliers on time, challenge by organising and taking part give them clear guidance, and encourage The fide La Rue Charitable Trust continues in numerous fundraising and sponsored good practice amongst our lead suppliers.
to match funds raised by employees for events and donating their time to help charitable causes and also distributes local projects.
In the UK, activities included funds to appropriate causes worldwide.
hosting student visits at our head office and attending events to promote STEM science, technology, engineering and maths subjects amongst local school children.
In Malta employees planted 200 trees in a local family park, refurbished a hostel and organised various fundraising events.
Employees in Sri Lanka donated blood and donated funds to a childrens cancer ward.
Our Irving site in the USA collected food for a local charity.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 28 Strategic report Directors report Accounts Working smarter to benefit customers, Innovation at work employees and the environment Our operational excellence programme is a business wide initiative developed for our supply chain function.
Through the engagement of our workforce in initiatives that improve manufacturing efficiencies we are able to deliver recognisable benefits to our customers.
Energy savings As part of our commitment to operational benefit the environment excellence we have invested significantly in many areas of our businesses, including a state of the art HVAC heating, ventilation and air conditioning system at Overton mill.
This system is expected to lead to annual energy savings of c350,000 and better control of humidity, improving the Better control of manufacturing process.
Employees also humidity improves Improved benefit from an improved environment manufacturing environment in which to work.
process for employees fide La Rue Annual Report 20 fide La Rue Annual Report 201 14 4 29 29
