32 People, Culture and Values Our People It is due to the hard work, commitment and talent of Dechras employees that the Group continues to grow.
Key to enabling our people to develop and perform is the leadership of the Group.
Following the divestment of the Services Segment on 16 August 2013, the SET was established to lead the development and implementation of the business strategy.
Reporting to Ian Page, Chief Executive Officer, the team comprises Anne-Francoise Nesmes, Chief Financial Officer, Tony Griffin, Managing Director DVP EU, all of whom are also part of the main Board, joined by Zoe Goulding, Company Secretary, Susan Longhofer, Group Director, Product Development and Regulatory Affairs, Mike Eldred, President North America, Mike Annice, Managing Director, Manufacturing, Allen Mellor, Group IT Director, and Katy Clough, Group HR Director.
Susan Longhofer, Group Director, Mike Eldred, President US Mike Annice, Managing Director, Product Development and Regulatory Mike joined Dechra in 2004 and is Manufacturing Affairs responsible for Dechra Veterinary With 24 years experience at Dechra, Susan joined Dechra in 2005.
Mike has been a key member of the veterinarian with over 25 years Mike has more than 20 years experience senior management team having experience in the industry, she leads in the animal health sector, having played a role in some of the notable a team of over 50 staff around the held senior positions in business events in our history including the globe responsible for a research development, sales and operations at MBO that formed Dechra Holdings, and development programme that Virbac Corporation, Fort Dodge Animal the flotation of the Company in 2000, ensures we deliver our pipeline of Health and Sanofi Animal Health.
As our site expansion adding manufacturing new international product approvals.
first employee in the US, he has built capability to our plant in Skipton and the Balancing the strategic needs of diverse the US team to 54 people and with a acquisitions of manufacturing plants in parts of the world, Susan is well versed strong Dechra culture has grown sales the Netherlands and the US.
He recently in leading multi-national teams.
Prior to revenue to 21 million.
Mike has also oversaw FDA approval of the Skipton joining Dechra, Susan worked for Virbac been involved in several commercial manufacturing facility.
Responsible for Corporation, Heska Corporation and agreements and acquisitions for the around 42% of the Dechra workforce Merck Research Laboratories.
Group including Pharmaderm, DermaPet across two manufacturing sites, he has and Phycox Animal Health.
significant experience of leading and Susan holds an MS and DVM in managing multi-site teams in high quality Veterinary Science and is a Diplomate, Mike has a BA in Business, and an MBA.
American College of Veterinary Internal He is located in Kansas, US.
Mike has a BSc Hons in Pharmacy, is a Member of the Royal Pharmaceutical She is located in Kansas, US.
Society and has Qualified Person status.
He is located in Skipton, UK.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 33 Katy Clough, Group HR Director Zoe Goulding, Company Secretary Allen Mellor, Group IT Director The most recent recruit to the team, Katy and Solicitor Allen joined Dechra in 2012 and has joined in April this year from AppSense Zoe joined Dechra in 2007.
In addition developed and implemented a new Ltd where she was the Vice President to her Board responsibilities, she is also Group IT strategy during this time.
of HR Europe and Rest of the World.
responsible for a variety of areas covering During the last 20 years, Allen has With over 15 years operating at Director legal governance and compliance gained a breadth of experience from level within Software, Health, Travel and aspects across the business.
the implementation of diverse business Finance industries, Katy brings with As Company Secretary, Zoe holds a solutions across multiple industry sectors her a wealth of HR expertise gained in unique position within the Company including Justice, Education, Energy, both blue chip corporates and smaller acting as a key point of contact for the Distribution and Retail.
She has Chairman, Senior Management and several senior management positions strong international, leadership and M&A shareholders.
This allows Zoe to have a encompassing software development, IT experience and has taken responsibility broad understanding and insight of the service provision and IT strategy, his last for driving the global people agenda for workings of the Group as a whole.
role was as Head of IT for the BSS Group the Dechra Group.
PLC, a leading plumbing and heating She is located at Head Office, She is located at Head Office, distribution company.
Allen is currently responsible for all Group IT support to a multitude of internal customers.
He is located at Head Office, Northwich, UK.
com Stock code: Stock code: DPH DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A 34 People, Culture and Values continued Our People Plan The appointment of Katy Clough as the Group HR Director towards the end of the 2014 financial year has prompted a review of our HR plan to drive the delivery of the business strategy through our people.
The primary objective is to enable a company that drives innovation, customer, and shareholder value, joint accountability, and shared success through execution of the following plan: Develop the SET Executive Team to provide world class leadership to the Group Strong SET Create simplied Align employee effort and access to data and improve execution through reduce manual effort effective goal setting linked to reward Scalable HR Performance Operations Culture One Dechra A great place to work Dechra Leaders Talent Identify succession plan and Development Attract, retain and Management create development plans to develop the right talent secure future talent pipeline in the right place at the and grow our own right time Aligned Compensation and Benets Develop equitable reward systems that drive accountability and reward high performance Our people agenda is a key enabler to our strategy: we have a roadmap to execute our plan over the next few years.
Two years ago significant steps were taken with the establishment of a new pilot Performance Development Review.
A further evolution of this programme is currently being rolled out that cements the link between an individuals accountability and delivery of our strategic plans.
Work to determine the Dechra Values was carried out during the 2013 financial year: the Values are increasingly embedded into the way we do things in the Group, and provide a stable foundation for all people related initiatives to be built upon.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 35 It is due to the hard work, commitment and talent of Dechras employees that the Group continues to grow.
23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A 02 Strategic Report 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Our Performance 38 Financial Review 44 Key Performance Indicators 46 How the Business Manages Risk 50 Q&A with Ian Page, Chief Executive Officer 52 Q&A with Anne-Francoise Nesmes, Chief Financial Officer 54 Q&A with Tony Griffin, Managing Director DVP EU 56 Q&A with Mike Eldred, President DVP US Strategy in Action: Case Studies 58 Pipeline Delivery: Osphos 59 Portfolio Focus: Vetoryl 60 Geographical Expansion: Italy 61 Acquisition: PSPC Inc. 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
