16 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 HOW WE WILL DELIVER OUR AMBITION: SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY Strong communities supported by local HOW WE WILL economic growth and a stable supply of natural resources are critical to Diageos DELIVER OUR financial performance.
This makes doing AMBITION: business in a sustainable and responsible way, including creating a positive role for SUSTAINABILITY alcohol in society, critical to achieving our Performance Ambition.
& RESPONSIBILITY Through Diageos Sustainability & Responsibility Materiality matrix a comparative analysis of S&R interests S&R Strategy, we manage the companys most material social and environmental impacts 5.5 with a goal of creating shared value for both 5.0 Communicating alcohol risks our business and our diverse stakeholders around the world.
4.5 Farmer education and empowerment At the core of our approach is a commitment 4.0 to create a positive role for alcohol in society, Consequences of alcohol misuse which is fundamental to Diageos purpose of 3.5 celebrating life, every day, everywhere, and Water security 3.0 a critical expectation of our business.
Meeting stakeholder expectations also 2.5 Supply chain transparency involves creating a positive role for our business 2.0 and the industry as a whole.
This includes Industry collaboration Gender equality in supply chain protecting the watersheds on which our 1.5 Unsafe illicit alcohol Food security operations and communities rely, and Educating women about responsible drinking Certication and labelling 1.0 investing in community programmes that Biodiversity Tax transparency Human rights Supply chain empower stakeholders throughout our value management Fair wages Carbon reduction 0.5 Responsible marketing chain.
It also includes managing impacts that Sustainable packaging Sustainable agriculture Executive pay Employee diversity Job creation Health and safety Sanitation infrastructure 0.0 are fundamental for any consumer products company, such as governance and ethics, 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 people and labour, and other environmental Business risk and opportunity issues such as greenhouse gas emissions, Alcohol in society Water and the environment Community empowerment Our people Value chain partnerships Governance and ethics Reporting and transparency General waste and packaging.
Diageos S&R Strategy supports our local communities.
In 2013, we invited Defining our material issues ambition to be one of the best performing, more than 40 stakeholders to share their To identify and prioritise our material most trusted and respected consumer expectations of Diageo in terms of our social impacts, we coupled feedback from external products companies in the world.
It brings and environmental impact.
Communicating stakeholders, our Board and management commercial benefits, including securing about the risks of alcohol consumption and team, with commercial analysis.
The results resources and raw materials, recruiting and tackling alcohol misuse were among the are shown in the materiality matrix above, retaining a talented and diverse workforce, most frequently cited.
A common piece of with external stakeholder interests illustrated creating operational efficiencies and ultimately feedback was that all leaders in the alcohol on the y axis and business interests on the maintaining our licence to operate around industry should work together to have a x axis.
Business interests represent the impact the world.
greater collective impact on reducing each issue might have on factors including For example, a water recovery project at alcohol misuse.
equity, market share, price, operating profit, our Tusker brewery, which operates in a Empowering stakeholders in our value chain our reputation and employee engagement.
water-stressed part of Kenya, started paying through skills and education particularly for We recognise that this matrix is not fully returns in just six months and now generates smallholder farmers and women was also comprehensive but it is illustrative of the savings of 500,000 per year.
frequently cited as an important contribution variety of concerns stakeholders may have Key stakeholders and their expectations to socio-economic development, while a in the more than 180 countries in which we We define our stakeholders as all those who third key expectation concerned water sell our products.
We will continue to update affect or are affected by Diageos business.
They security, particularly in water-stressed areas.
it as we engage individuals and organisations include internal and external stakeholders, Stakeholders noted the need to continue to around the world.
We are currently in the ranging from employees, investors, customers work on the issue within our operations but process of developing targets for the most and suppliers, to governments and regulators, also to collaborate with local communities material issues, and we aim to announce not-for-profit organisations, consumers and and raw material suppliers.
Stakeholder interests Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 17 HOW WE WILL DELIVER OUR AMBITION: SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY companies, including Diageo, announced industry standards for responsible marketing: ALCOHOL IN SOCIETY the Global Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers continuing to support effective programmes Diageos iconic brands are enjoyed by Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking.
and partnerships to tackle drink driving millions every day and it has long been Built on long-standing industry efforts, these and excessive drinking: and advocating our priority to ensure that they are enjoyed commitments represent the largest ever effective, evidence-based policy.
While drinking alcohol can industry-wide initiative to implement effective The Diageo Marketing Code and Digital play a positive role in social occasions and ways to address harmful drinking.
The initiative Code are our mandatory minimum standard celebrations for those who choose to drink, identified five broad areas in which to progress for responsible marketing, and we review Diageo recognises that the misuse of over five years from January 2013: 1 reducing them every 12-18 months to ensure they alcohol can cause serious problems for underage drinking: 2 strengthening and represent best practice.
In addition to abiding individuals, communities and society.
expanding marketing codes of practice: 3 by these codes, all brands operate under the Following a United Nations UN political providing consumer information and responsible Diageo Alcohol Beverage Information Policy declaration on the prevention and control product innovation: 4 reducing drink driving: which mandates what information Diageo of non-communicable diseases, the World and 5 enlisting the support of retailers.
provides on labels, including, among other Health Organization WHO has set a target Diageo and the other signatory companies provisions, a link to our responsible drinking of reducing alcohol-related harm by 10% have pledged to ensure that progress in website, www.
Diageo shares implementing the commitments is transparent this goal: every one of our responsible and independently assured.
drinking programmes, partnerships and Beyond these commitments, our approach 373 campaigns are in service of this.
to creating a positive role for alcohol in society In 2012, 13 leading alcohol beverage focuses on promoting rigorous company and responsible drinking programmes.
EFFECTIVE PROGRAMMES Our Model Cities programme in two AND PARTNERSHIPS Mexican cities Quertaro and Mexico City demonstrates the effectiveness of engaging Diageo supports 373 responsible drinking all stakeholders in a municipality, including programmes in 53 countries.
These programmes local retailers, educators, police and focus on preventing drink driving, underage government, to promote responsible drinking drinking and excessive drinking.
We believe through education and responsible service.
that efforts to reduce the misuse of alcohol are Between 2012 and 2013, evaluation of most effective when government, civil society, the programme showed important individuals and families, as well as the industry, improvements in attitudes toward alcohol, work together.
reductions in drink driving, and improvements in age verification where alcohol is sold.
COLLECTIVE ACTION This year, 23 of our sites, producing about WATER AND TO ADDRESS WATER STRESS one third of Diageos packaged volume, were THE ENVIRONMENT designated as being located in areas which We are committed to improving the water Diageo uses a wide range of resources in are water-stressed, which means they have efficiency of our operations, and this year its business.
Some, like fossil fuel, are finite: reduced absolute water withdrawals by a higher water supply risk.
More than half of others, like cereals, are vulnerable to the 9%, improved water efficiency by 2.4% and these sites are in Africa, where the UN predicts effects of climate change.
Water, the main decreased water wasted at water-stressed that nearly 50% of the population will face ingredient in all of our products, is becoming sites by 12%.
While we are proud of this water scarcity by 2025.
Water challenges in increasingly scarce in many parts of important accomplishment, we recognise these areas will therefore affect not only Diageos the world.
that collective action with all our stakeholders business but also our business partners and is critical to managing local water supplies While our S&R Strategy includes targets the local communities who rely on water sustainably.
This is why in Nairobi, Kenya, and policies aimed at reducing the emissions for their livelihoods.
where three of our 23 water-stressed sites are of greenhouse gases, reducing the amount Our approach to water stewardship located, Diageo and Kenya Breweries Limited of waste sent to landfill, and improving the focuses on driving progress against targets recently established the Nairobi Water sustainability of our packaging, we and for water efficiency, water wasted in waterRoundtable a multi-stakeholder group our stakeholders recognise that water stressed areas and water quality.
We also invest tasked with sharing best practice, influencing stewardship is the most material aspect in infrastructure and sanitation through our government and committing to intervention of our environmental strategy.
Water of Life programme to provide access projects to protect local watersheds.
to clean water in local communities, primarily in Africa.
12% decrease in water wasted at water-stressed sites this year.
See page 25 for a map of our water-stressed sites.
Read our S&R Review on pages 42-49.
18 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 HOW WE WILL DELIVER OUR AMBITION: SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT Like most businesses, we create wealth to investing in communities.
Our approach not empowering women in our local directly for our local stakeholders through only seeks to maximise the positive impact communities.
We also support local our daily business operations, including Diageo and its business partners can have charities and disaster relief efforts providing jobs, sourcing locally, and paying on society, it also seeks to strengthen our through company contributions as local duties.
However, creating wealth in a value chain.
In addition to helping to provide well as through the Diageo Foundation, lasting way requires partnering with others access to water for local communities through a UK-registered charity.
to address development challenges such Water of Life, key programmes include as education and health, and advocating partnerships and training for smallholder high standards of governance in the farmers supplying our ingredients: Diageos communities where we operate.
Learning for Life programmes that provide 1 4,000 We invest in a variety of programmes that education and vocational training in the aim to empower our stakeholders, which hospitality, retail and alcohol industries: people enrolled in a Learning for Life programme this year.
represent our long-standing commitment and Plan W programmes that focus on LEVERAGING THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY In an effort to reduce youth unemployment in of their journey to employment.
They Scotland, Diageos Learning for Life programme are also offered ongoing mentoring and provides young unemployed people with assistance to guide them both during the coaching, core employability skills and specialist training and the job application process.
Participants benefit from Learning for Life in Scotland is the most advice in areas such as interview preparation, recent addition to this flagship programme teamwork, and communication helping to that we run in 30 countries, primarily in boost their life skills and confidence in support Latin America and the Caribbean.
OUR PEOPLE From the moment they join Diageo, We support our employees through clear Maintaining a culture that embraces we want our employees to feel engaged: policies, competitive reward programmes, diversity from recruitment through to aligned with our strategy, connected to coaching and development opportunities, senior leadership is particularly important our values and motivated to achieve their and health and wellbeing initiatives.
We to Diageos people strategy.
And above all, we want them continually monitor the impact of these a goal to have 30% of senior management to be safe.
Our Zero Harm philosophy is programmes on employee engagement, positions held by women.
aimed at eliminating workplace accidents conducting an annual values-based survey, and we have a target of having fewer which is now in its 13th year.
The survey than one lost-time accident per 1,000 allows Diageo at group, market, functional 45% people by 2015 as a milestone and team levels, to assess how well towards that ambition.
we are bringing our values to life and global reduction in lost-time engaging employees.
HARVESTING EXCELLENCE INVESTING IN SAFETY IN YPICA When we take on a new business we work quickly to introduce our safety standards.
Diageo acquired Ypica in 2012, taking on some of Brazils best-known brands and a business that employed approximately 1,000 people.
We applied our Zero Harm safety philosophy to the business, and identified two particular hotspots for accidents cane harvest and the handling of returnable glass.
Thanks to our Harvest Excellence programme, lost-time accidents fell by more than 60% in 2014 compared with 2013.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 19 HOW WE WILL DELIVER OUR AMBITION: SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS People want to trust the company To help our employees make the right behind the brands that they love.
Diageos decisions at work, we train them on risk and compliance programme and our Code of Business Conduct which strong corporate governance structure is underpinned by our global policies.
HELPING EMPLOYEES are designed to earn and keep that trust A network of control, compliance and ethics MAKE THE RIGHT DECISIONS by protecting our reputation, supporting managers in each market and function This year, Diageo introduced a simple new our core values and ensuring we act carry out targeted, risk-based training to resource for all employees.
The G&E tool, lawfully and with integrity in employees to support understanding and accessible online and on handhelds, everything we do.
application of the policies that are most helps employees make the right decisions important to them.
We also support our by providing guidance based on our managers and senior leaders with specific Anti-Corruption Policy.
With a few clicks, and tailored tools and training to help them the tool takes the user through simple embed our culture of integrity.
We take stages designed to help ensure that Diageo can remain proud of our reputation for seriously the disciplinary consequences integrity and for not tolerating bribery of breaches of our Code or policies.
or corruption in any form.
All employees Our response to proven breaches varies 100% can also speak to their local controls, depending on their severity, however, manager level and above employees compliance and ethics manager with this year 146 people exited the business completed their Annual Certification any questions they might have about as a result of such breaches.
VALUE CHAIN PARTNERSHIPS Our brands rely on a long and complex The process by which we manage social To this end, we have continued actively value chain that joins us with our suppliers, and ethical risks in our supply chain has four using local raw materials like sorghum customers, and consumers.
Our reputation, stages: an initial screening, a prequalification and cassava, which are more resilient and and the sustainability of our business model, questionnaire which covers social and ethical better adapted to their local climates.
depend on our ability to recognise and risks including human rights, a qualification We also focus on sourcing locally.
For mitigate the potential risks along this chain.
process where potentially high-risk suppliers example, we have a target of sourcing Diageos Partnering with Suppliers are required to register with SEDEX, and 70% of agricultural materials locally Standard sets out the minimum social, ethical independent audits of suppliers who across Africa including Nigeria, Ghana, and environmental standards required of represent the highest risk.
Cameroon, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, suppliers as part of their contract with us, Beyond upholding high standards across Ethiopia and South Africa by the as well as aspirations for our long-term our whole supply chain, we are particularly end of 2015. partners to work towards.
We work through keen to foster broader partnerships with To sustain partnerships with farmers, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange agricultural suppliers, since the long term Diageo and its other agricultural value chain SEDEX, a not-for-profit organisation that prosperity of our business is closely linked partners help provide access to training, enables suppliers to share assessments with our ability to work with farmers in seeds and advanced credit.
In many cases, and audits of ethical and responsible ways that are sustainable, secure, and this allows farmers to make longer term, practices with their customers.
SUPPORTING FARMERS IN AFRICA Across Africa, we have worked with thousands of farmers who provide our raw materials.
In addition to securing contracts, Diageo works with them to improve yields and develop scalable agribusiness models, linking larger farmers with smallholder communities.
For example, this year, Serengeti Breweries Ltd, Diageos subsidiary in Tanzania, provided 300 tonnes of barley seeds and helped more than 50 farmers plant 8,000 acres of land, as well as hosting workshops on sustainable farming practices.
300 tonnes of barley seeds provided by Serengeti Breweries to farmers in Tanzania.
