Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 45 SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW: COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS Improve access to safe drinking water for one million people in Africa every year until 2015 1 million VS 1MILLION IN 2013 Train 100,000 people through our Learning for Life programme by 2016 14,000 VS 25,307 IN 2013 Empower two million women through our Plan W programme by 2016 EMPOWERING URBAN WOMEN IN INDIA PLAN W 40,545 VS 16,750 IN 2013 Our Plan W programme aims to empower two million women in 17 countries in Asia-Pacific by 2017 through systematic investment in knowledge and skills.
In India, two pilot Like most businesses, we create wealth directly programmes are showing early positive results towards this goal.
for our local stakeholders through our daily In Bangalore, we are working with the Samarthanam Trust, a not-for-profit organisation business operations, including providing that assists visually impaired, disabled, and underprivileged women through a diverse array jobs, sourcing locally, and paying local duties.
Our pilot programme with the Trust focuses on providing women However, creating wealth in a lasting way with technical and life skills including spoken English and leadership, as well as career requires more: we must work with local counselling.
Thus far, 1,050 women at Samarthanams five urban training centres have people to address development challenges been trained.
Of those who completed training, 65% were employed in medium and such as skills gaps or access to clean water, large businesses in 2014.
We are encouraged by these results, which are well on the and advocate high standards of governance way to our 80% employment target.
in the communities where we operate.
Plan Ws second partnership is with Udyogini which translates as woman entrepreneur This year we invested 16.5 million or 0.6% a not-for-profit organisation based in New Delhi which works with low-income women to improve their skills as small business owners and managers.
In addition to working of operating profits to charitable projects that with more than 15,000 women directly, Udyogini also works with around 25,000 women help serve critical local need.
This marks a indirectly through its services to build the capacity of other not-for-profit organisations.
decrease from the charitable giving reported In its partnership with Plan W, Udyogini trained five not-for-profit organisations in urban last year, primarily because we have chosen areas to help improve their services to women entrepreneurs.
not to include our legacy commitment of 10.3 million to the Thalidomide Trust and the Thalidomide Foundation Ltd and instead through more than 200 projects in 18 countries.
Last year we expanded our programme focus our community investment reporting Our initiatives support boreholes, wells, rainwater beyond Latin America, where it was founded, to on our long-term, actively managed harvesting and domestic filtration devices.
In total this year flagship programmes.
Diageo ran 71 Learning for Life programmes Learning for Life in 30 countries, training 14,000 people.
This Water of Life Learning for Life was established with the belief brings the numbers of people trained since Complementing our efforts to protect water that vocational and life-skills training can the launch of the programmes five years ago resources, we work with local communities produce a ripple effect that will positively impact to more than 102,000, beating our target of to provide access to safe drinking water through individuals, families, communities and societies 100,000 two years early.
our Water of Life programme.
Since June 2006, while strengthening Diageos value chain.
we have reached more than 10 million people Plan W In Asia Pacific, we run a similar sustainable development programme to empower Community investment by focus area Community investment by region women to play a greater role in the economy 3% 7% by developing their hospitality and business 30% 20% 19% 21% enterprise skills.
Since launching in December 2012, we have worked with 57,295 women in 16 countries in partnership with 13 organisations.
We also believe that educating men on issues that concern women ultimately can 5% 11% help empower women, and thus far 19,501 27% 26% men have gone through the programme.
31% W ater of Life Plan W Social enterprise Af rica and Russia, Eastern Europe Latin America Further details in the and Turkey and Caribbean L earning for Life Brand-led and Community aspects local community of responsible A sia Pacific and GTME North America S&R Performance Addendum 2014. spend drinking projects W estern Europe and Global functions Further details at www.
Category includes cause-related brand campaigns, local market giving and disaster relief.
This is a sub-section of the total responsible drinking budget.
