42 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW: ALCOHOL IN SOCIETY SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW TACKLING DRINK DRIVING IN GHANA An analysis in seven countries found ALCOHOL IN SOCIETY more than 96% of producer advertising Based at five major transport terminals, PERFORMANCE AGAINST 2015 TARGETS is compliant with the 70 30 rule under the Twa Kwano Mmom campaign aimed which advertising is placed in media where to reduce drink driving in Ghana over Responsible drinking programmes Christmas 2013 with positive results.
at least 70% of the audience is of legal During that time, clinical psychologists drinking age 373 VS 315 IN 2013 from the University of Ghana Medical Producers developed guiding principles School provided information on the We are moving towards a new metric in future years that for responsible digital marketing, which effects of alcohol to 1,230 participating will demonstrate the impact of our programmes on are now under public stakeholder review awareness, attitudes or behaviour.
commercial drivers while random The report, which was independently assured, breathalyser tests were set up at the This year we made good progress in terminals exit points.
Any drivers who can be found on www.
implementing the landmark Global Beer, tested positive for alcohol a blood org.
Information about Diageos performance Wine and Spirits Producers Commitments to alcohol concentration BAC of more can be found on our website.
Reduce Harmful Drinking, as well as our broader than 0.08 were replaced and sanctioned goals to support effective programmes that by their union executives.
Drivers who Tackling alcohol misuse tackle alcohol misuse: communicate about behaved responsibly during the We will continue to work with others to programme were rewarded.
alcohol responsibly: and advocate effective, implement programmes that tackle misuse Of the 1,500 breathalyser tests in the evidence-based policy.
in ways that go beyond these Commitments.
campaigns first week, 33 were positive The choice of programme in each market for alcohol.
The 4,841 tests conducted in The Global Beer, Wine and reflects local stakeholder concerns but our subsequent weeks, however, resulted Spirits Producers Commitments focus is always on initiatives that can be shown in no positive tests at all.
The campaign The first annual report on progress against to shift awareness, attitudes and behaviour.
has been endorsed by the Ministry of the Commitments was published in July 2014.
This year, Diageo supported 373 programmes, Health, the Ghana Police Motor Transport The report concludes that signatory companies including Commitments programmes in 53 and Traffic Department, the National made good progress, but that more remains countries, many of which have been evaluated Road Safety Commission and the to be done.
The first year was used to establish to show measurable effects on awareness, Ministry of Transport.
benchmarks, set key performance indicators attitudes and behaviour.
Our sponsorship of and create resources for future work.
These the McLaren Mercedes F1 team continues to building blocks will inform, strengthen and Communicating about alcohol responsibly give Diageo a stylish and impactful platform accelerate future efforts.
The following are Five industry bodies publicly report breaches of to speak credibly about the importance of highlights included in the report: their self-regulatory codes.
The industry bodies staying in control while driving.
Johnnie Walkers that monitor these self-regulatory codes do Producers supported 135 education Join the Pact campaign has a goal to give not impose fines: nevertheless, removing the programmes aimed at preventing and one million kilometres of safe rides home offending marketing can be a costly lesson for reducing underage drinking which together to consumers across the globe who have any company.
Further consequences include reached nearly one million young people pledged never to drink and drive.
So far it reputational damage and, in some instances, under the legal purchase age, and more has given about 423,025 rides, representing additional controls, such as being subject to than 500,000 parents, teachers, and around 265,491 kilometres.
mandatory pre-clearance for future advertising.
community leaders This year, Diageo was found to be in breach by the Advertising Standards Authority in the Industry Complaints Complaints about advertising upheld by complaints about United Kingdom for a Captain Morgan television industry bodies that report publicly 2014 upheld Diageo brands commercial on the grounds of linking alcohol Australia Alcohol Beverage Code 3 with daring, tough and aggressive behaviour.
Ireland Advertising Standards Authority for Ireland ASAI 3 The commercial was immediately withdrawn.
United Kingdom The Portman Group 8 Advertising Standards Authority ASA 38 1 Further details in the United States Distilled Spirits Council of the United States DISCUS 3 S&R Performance Addendum 2014.
