Overview Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 Corporate and social responsibility Continuing to build a responsible and sustainable business Richard Portman, Corporate Services Director necessary business tasks as Finance, IT, HR, Sustainability and strategy Dignitys sustainability programme shapes Marketing and Purchasing.
This approach the way that we do business.
Conducting our demonstrates our commitment to providing business in a responsible way is one of our staff in locations where they can directly help We recognise and support our clients.
fundamental values and a key element of that our corporate our business growth strategy.
Behaving in an responsibility ethical manner, working safely, reducing our Risk management environmental impact, developing our people Our Code of Conduct ensures that all staff activities are an are aware of the principles that govern how and contributing to the communities we serve important way for enables us to create long-term value for we operate in the business environment and ustodeliverupon our our stakeholders.
explains the standards of behaviour that all our employees are expected to adhere to.
We define our reporting in terms of our During 2014, the workplace, the environment and the Our Code of Conduct is reinforced by a staff Boardreconfirmedits communities of which we play an important handbook, Helping our clients every step of part.
We strive to improve the way that we the way which states that all clients should be commitment to the supported during the funeral arrangements, perform, manage and report on corporate four components of and social responsibility CSR matters across at the service or when choosing a memorial or our sustainability all aspects of our business.
Within Dignity, funeral plan in a caring and sensitive manner.
Corporate Services Director, Richard Portman, We should be compassionate and caring: pay programme and we attention to detail: spend as much time as the is accountable for CSR and under this remit have continued to identifies major issues and reports these to client needs: be open and straightforward and make good progress his fellow Board members.
keep in regular contact with the client.
Business integrity and ethics Governance We make our clients feel confident in us so Accountability that they are reassured they are being served The governing principles of Dignity are that by responsible individuals working for a we are here to help people at one of the most Our four CSR commitments: responsible company.
difficult times of their lives and we do this with compassion, respect, openness and People development Dignity has been identified by the FTSE Group care.
Our objective is to be the company that in its FTSE4Good initiative as a company that everyone knows they can trust in their time of Health & safety is working towards environmental sustainability, need.
Our values, which are ensconced in our developing positive relationships with governing principles, are a fundamental part Environment stakeholders and upholding and supporting of our culture.
By living these values, we ensure universal human rights.
that we operate in a responsible way and that Community engagement we deliver the excellent service upon which We build trust and respect with everyone our business depends.
touched by our business operations our clients, our colleagues, our suppliers, trade Implementation associations, local authorities and members of Links The flat management structure of Dignity the communities we serve.
Everyone at Dignity means that local management are empowered See Our strategy and business understands that at all times they are an to make decisions that provide quick and model: p. 10 and p. 11 ambassador for the Group and that the future effective solutions to the needs of their clients, See The client survey success of the business depends on its businesses and the communities they serve.
Only six per cent of our employees are based See Governance: p. 34 to p. 61 at our head office where they perform such See People development p. 30 and p. 31 See Health & Safety: p. 32 See Environment: p. 32 See Community engagement: p. 33 Dignity AR Master Front Section 2014 tp Layout 1 27 03 2015 12:51 Page 33 Dignity plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report In this section Corporate and social responsibility continued In this section, we provide an overview of the importance and our approach to CSR and our performance in 2014.
Further details and case studies can be found on Dignitys website: www.
co. uk People development What we believe in Our commitment What we focus on: We value our people and Learning and development: What we are here to do: understand, respect and To help people at one of the most difficult times Recognising achievement: value personal and cultural in their lives.
Dignity is Promoting diversity: and How we do this: committed to high standards Employee engagement.
With compassion, respect, openness and care.
of employment practice and aims to encourage, retain and What we want to be: develop successful employees.
The company that everyone knows they can trust in their time of need.
co. uk Our people, culture and values qualifications including the National Association of Funeral Directors NAFD Diploma in Funeral Directing: the London Our people come from the towns and cities they serve or from families that have been in the funeral profession for generations.
Association of Funeral Directors LAFD Certificate in Funeral Arranging & Administration and Membership of the British They are all dedicated to delivering excellent client service.
Our Code of Conduct is reinforced by our Staff Handbook which is given to all new employees working in our funeral Recognising achievement locations and crematoria.
This document has been reviewed In a competitive marketplace we recognise the importance of and updated to ensure that we embed all new employees into financially rewarding employees appropriately for the value they the Dignity culture and to remind existing members of staff of bring to the business.
Dignity has rewarded its loyal staff with the standards of behaviour and attitudes that are expected of long service awards totalling approximately 0.2 million in 2014. them.
The Code of Conduct is also published on the Dignity plc investor website.
Promoting diversity In January 2014, Dignity was awarded the disability Two Ticks We adhere to the Bribery and Corruption Act of 2010 and have Positive About Disability Symbol by Jobcentre Plus.
The symbol policies and procedures to minimise the risk of bribery.
This is identifies those employers that have agreed to meet five also published on our website.
commitments regarding recruitment, employment, retention and career development of disabled people.
Progress against our objectives in 2014 Employee engagement Learning and development Whether its at the start of a career through our training To achieve our business objectives we need engaged initiatives: a flexible job for working parents or carers: or a employees dedicated to our vision and values.
Dignity second or third career for someone later in life: we offer job publishes a quarterly in-house magazine, Dignity Express, opportunities and support for people to fulfil their potential.
to enable the Companys Directors, managers and employees to communicate objectives, explain financial performance and Dignitys investment in training enables our staff to provide client satisfaction results in addition to sharing best practice our clients with the highest standards of service and care and news in a cost effective manner.
Dignity Express is and to ensure that our rigorous procedures are followed in supplemented by monthly news bulletins to keep all employees all locations.
In 2014, Dignity continued to provide its staff informed of what is happening within the organisation.
with both relevant job training and tutoring for professional % Senior managers % & number Employee ratio % & number Employee service % & number 30 30 per cent of Dignity staff 852 employees have over 10 years service.
6years 1 year: 13% 379 employees Male 79% 28 senior managers Male 50% 1,415 employees 14 years: 33% 923 employees The average length of service Female 21% 6 senior managers Female 50% 1,433 employees 59 years: 24% 694 employees for a Dignity employee is 1019 years: 21% 602 employees six years.
20 years: 9% 250 employees Overview Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 Key and link to strategic objective 1 1.
Client Service Advisors Ian Webster and Chelsey Nall in the Client Continue to prioritise excellent Service Centre.
1 client service which we believe 2.
Fabio Dos Santos, Funeral Director will lead to organic growth.
See Our strategy and business model: p. 10 and p. 11 3.
Victoria Sennett, Funeral Service Arranger at J H Kenyon in Westminster.
Sue Oakes, Head of Customer Services at Dignitys Client Service Centre in Sutton Coldfield.
2 3 4 Committed to continuous improvement In 2014 Dignity retained Service remains central to its place in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
all we do and our people are integral to our continued success.
The Two Ticks positive about disability symbol is awarded by Jobcentre Plus to employers who have made commitments to employ, retain and develop the abilities of disabled employees.
Dignity received this award in January 2014.
Dignity plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate and social responsibility continued Link See Directors report for more about carbon reporting: p. 59 to p. 61 Health & Safety Environment Our commitment What we focus on: Our commitment What we focus on: Our business is conducted Ensuring safety: We are committed to Reducing our carbon footprint: in such a way as to ensure as maintaining the quality of the Proactive management: far as is reasonably practical, environment in which we all Reducing energy Employee welfare: and the health, safety and welfare live and we aim to reduce the consumption: of all our employees and impact ofouroperationsso that Occupational safety.
Promoting sustainable all persons who may be we act in an environmentally development: and attending our premises.
Minimising our For additional information: For additional information: environmental impact.
co. uk Progress against our objectives in 2014 Progress against our objectives in 2014 Dignity has a full-time Health and Safety Manager who is In 2014 our business continued to have a low environmental supported by eight Health & Safety Officers.
Dignitys head impact and its activities are not expected to give rise to any office, crematoria and coffin factory also have their own significant environmental risk over the next twelve months.
managers with responsibility for Health and Safety.
Over All waste generated is properly disposed of in accordance the last five years the number of accidents has reduced with current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste by 26 per cent.
During the year, Dignitys coffin manufacturing facility in Approximately 28,600 cremations at Dignity crematoria were East Yorkshire gained OHSAS18001 accreditation officially mercury abated during 2014, representing 54 per cent of recognising the factory as a safe and healthy environment the total number of cremations.
OHSAS18001 is a widely recognised management system that is awarded to sites that have a Dignitys coffin manufacturing facility has ISO14001 proven record of promoting health and safety by providing accreditation, an internationally accepted standard for an a framework to identify and control risks and reduce the effective Environmental management system that is designed potential for accidents.
to address the balance between maintaining profitability and reducing environmental impact.
Our coffins are manufactured using raw materials that are sourced from well-managed and sustainable sources.
98 per cent of the coffins manufactured by Dignity are from Forest Stewardship Council FSC accredited timber.
Dignity aims to reduce its future carbon footprint and in 2014 Dignity continued to submit its data to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
This is a not-for-profit organisation that aims to improve the environment by measuring disclosures from thousands of organisations across the worlds major economies.
Release of Greenhouse Gas emissions are disclosed in the Directors report on page 60.
Health & safety training number % 58,000 26 12 Making in excess of 58,000 Over the last five years the coffins per year, Dignity has number of accidents has 146 one of the most modern reduced by 26 per cent.
and efficient manufacturing 242 facilities in the UK and a 0 20 40 6 0 80 100 120 14 0 16 0 18 0 20 0 220 240 distribution network that Employees with NEBOSH qualification: 12 covers from the North East Employees with IOSH qualification: 146 of Scotland to the South Employees with CIEH qualification: 242 West of England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Overview Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 33 1 1.
The Service of Remembrance to commemorate those that lost their lives during World War One at Bentley Crematorium.
Dignity provided financial support to Charlotte McAvoy and Helen Waite, allowing them to study at the University of Birmingham under the Access to Birmingham Scheme.
Meaghan Annear, Senior Account Manager at Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Funeral Director, Matthew James with Helen Brown, a nurse at the Community engagement Marie Curie Hospice in Solihull.
Our commitment What we focus on: 2 We are committed to making Making a positive a difference to our clients and contribution to the local improving the welfare of all communities we serve: who live in the communities Building closer relationships we serve.
with local communities: and Developing a greater understanding of our clients For additional information: and communities needs.
co. uk Progress against our objectives in 2014 We continue to build strong links with the communities in which we operate through local engagement and fundraising for charities.
Local community engagement and charitable support Our people support hundreds of local community initiatives and charitable events each year.
Dignity raised 90,000 during 2014 for its corporate charity, Marie Curie Cancer Care and has raised 215,000 since January 2012.
Fundraising initiatives included charity car washes and taking part in sponsored walks, sky dives and fun runs.
Dignity also raised money for Marie Curie Cancer Care by taking part in national campaigns such as The Great Daffodil Appeal, where branches sold the charitys lapel badges and The Blooming Great Tea Party where visitors could purchase hot drinks, snacks and homemade cakes for a charitable donation.
To demonstrate our values and principles Dignity people have also supported numerous hospices and care homes, a restoration project at a historic church close to its head office in Sutton Coldfield, provided financial support for local sports clubs, musical groups and churches in addition to fundraising for many other national and regional charities.
In September, Dignity provided financial support to three mature students enabling them to study full-time at the University of Birmingham under the Access to Birmingham Scheme A2B.
The scheme provides local people from families or communities with little experience of higher education the opportunity to study at the University.
3 4 215,000 Our partnership with Dignity continues to work Dignity helps us to make with Marie Curie Cancer Care a big difference to the lives and over the last three years of the people we care for.
our staff have helped to raise Their efforts help to raise more than 215,000 in awareness and generate support of this vital charity.
funding for the vital work of our Marie Curie nurses.
Meaghan Annear, Senior Account Manager, Marie Curie Cancer Care.
