38 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Employees Employment policies throughout the Group have been established Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation and to comply with relevant legislation and codes of practice relating to teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as being key employment, Health & Safety and equal opportunities.
The Group to achieving the Groups business objectives.
The stability and provides good quality working environments and facilities for employees commitment of the employees is demonstrated by the average length and training and development appropriate to each of their roles.
of service which has remained high.
Inaddition the number of working Some of the Groups operating companies have structured days lost to sickness is ca.
These measures remain consistent apprenticeship schemes for technical staff and the Group provides across each of the Groups Sectors.
sponsorship for high potential employees for higher education courses Key employee statistics where appropriate.
Vocational training is also provided and some staff are enrolled on National Vocational Qualification NVQ or similar level 2014 2013 2012 courses.
Employees are actively encouraged to undertake Continuing Average number of employees Professional Development CPD.
inyear 1,264 1,145 1,062 In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, Females as percentage of total 35% 35% 33% employees are required to seek approval of the Company before dealing Length of service years 6.3 6.2 6.0 in its shares.
Average staff turnover 21.5% 20.4% 16.7% Sick days lost per person 3.0 2.2 2.3 Health & Safety The Group is fully committed to ensuring clean, safe and healthy The increase in sick days lost per person is heavily influenced by a small working conditions.
The Group actively promotes a strong safety culture number of employees who are on long term sick leave.
and ensures a collective responsibility for ensuring Health & Safety standards are continually improved.
Set out below is an analysis of the number of employees by gender at the year end.
The Group Chief Operating Officer, Iain Henderson, has overall 2014 2013 responsibility for Health & Safety procedures across the Group.
Male Female Male Female However, in line with the Groups decentralised management Directors 6 1 6 1 approach, accountability for Health & Safety is with local management Senior Managers 67 17 55 17 to match local regulatory requirements, culture and specific business Employees 788 445 695 385 needs.
The Group requires that each operating business conducts Health & Safety reviews against its specific operational risk profile and 861 463 756 403 local regulatory requirements.
2014 2013 2012 The Group values the commitment of its employees and recognises the Minor injuries 55 54 21 importance of communication to good working relationships.
The Group 1 Reportable lost time incidents 5 1 2 keeps employees informed on matters relating to their employment, on business developments and on financial and economic factors affecting 1 Three or more days absence from workplace.
This is achieved through management briefings, internal announcements, the Groups website and by the distribution of The level of minor injuries has remained constant, despite the increased Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases.
number of employees and new businesses acquired during the year.
Copies of the Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts are also While the number of reportable lost time incidents has increased, only made available in the operating businesses.
This communication one of the injuries resulted in greater than five days lost time.
The most programme enables employees to gain a better understanding of common types of injury relate to minor cuts, slips trips or lifting injuries.
the Groups business objectives and their roles in achieving them.
Both employment policy and practice in the Group are based on All injuries are fully investigated and corrective actions and preventative non-discrimination and equal opportunities.
Ability and aptitude are measures put in place to ensure that the injury does not reoccur and the determining factors in the selection, training, career development future risks are mitigated.
and promotion of all employees.
Health & Safety forms part of the induction process for new employees The Group remains supportive of the employment and advancement of and where relevant, more specialist training is provided for specific disabled persons.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are functions.
The Group has good coverage of employees who have always fully considered, bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and formal Health & Safety training and or qualifications and this has abilities of the applicants concerned.
If an employee is, or becomes continued to increase during 2014. disabled during their period of employment, the Group will, if necessary Human rights and to the extent possible, adapt the work environment to enable the The Groups activities are substantially carried out in developed employee to continue in their current position or retrain the employee for countries that have strong legislation governing human rights.
duties suited to their abilities following disablement.
At 30 September 2014 The Group complies fully with appropriate legislation in the the Group employed one disabled employee.
DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 39 Environmental Business ethics The Group comprises sales and marketing focused businesses which The Group recognises its obligations towards the parties with whom essentially receive products from suppliers and despatch them to the Group has business dealings including customers, shareholders, customers.
The Groups businesses do not operate delivery fleets: they employers, suppliers and advisors.
use third party carriers to deliver their products to customers and to In general, the interactions with these parties are managed at a local provide much of their packaging requirements.
The Groups ability to level by senior management and the Group expects a high standard of control the environmental impact of its logistics partners is therefore expertise and business principles to be maintained in such dealings.
The primary impact on the environment, which is entirely in the Groups control, is consumption of the normal business energy sources The Groups policy towards suppliers is that each operating business is such as heating and power, which the Group aims to minimise.
responsible for negotiating the terms and conditions under which they trade with their suppliers.
The Group does not operate a formal code The Group ensures it minimises its impact on the environment through that it follows with regard to payments to suppliers.
Group companies compliance with relevant environmental legislation.
The Group is agree payment terms with their suppliers when they enter into binding committed to identifying and assessing environmental risks, such as purchasing contracts for the supply of goods or services.
Suppliers are, packaging waste, arising from its operations.
inthat way, made aware of these terms.
Group companies seek to abide Waste management initiatives are encouraged and supported by the by these payment terms when they are satisfied that the supplier has Group and materials are recycled where practical.
provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms andconditions.
Local management are committed to good environmental management practices throughout our operations.
The Managing Community Directors have responsibility for environmental performance of their The Group believes that good community relations are important to the operating businesses and each subsidiary is required to implement long term development and sustainability of the operating businesses.
initiatives to meet their responsibilities.
The Group considers the environmental and social impacts of Each facility participates in recycling paper, plastic, cardboard, and wood conducting business on the community and this forms part of the from pallets and continues to focus on minimising energy consumption business decision making process.
Many community activities and through the efficient use of heating and lighting.
In addition a number of events are fully supported by the Group and this relationship is managed the businesses now use fully recycled and biodegradable filler materials by the local management teams.
Some highlights from the year include: Greenhouse gas emissions In North America Last year, the UK Government introduced a requirement that UK listed Various charitable donations made locally at each business by companies should report their global levels of greenhouse gas employees for local charities such as United Way, Clothes to Kids, GHG emissions in their Annual Report & Accounts.
The mandatory Haven House abused women, food banks, schools and cancer requirement is for disclosure of scope 1 and 2 only direct emissions, awareness.
e. g. heating, cooling, transport fuel and indirect emissions, e. g. from Hercules Canada sponsorship of charity golf tournaments.
purchased electricity and only to the extent that such emissions are Educational support via scholarships and schools engagement the responsibility of the Company.
through the National Fluid Power Association.
The Group have considered the six main Greenhouse Gases GHGs In Europe and report emissions in tonnes of CO equivalent CO e for Scope 1 IS Group and Clarendon supported Red Bull Racing in their 2 2 direct and Scope 2 indirect emissions.
These emissions are calculated chosen charity Wings for Life, raising over 9,000 for spinal cord following the GHG Protocol and UK Government Environmental injury research.
Support included a Tough Mudder event, Reporting Guidelines.
The Group has used DEFRA UK GHG Conversion a charity ball, car washes and many other events.
Factors, US Environmental Protection Agency Emission Factors and SFC supported the Race2Recovery charity by supplying products International Energy Agency Factors.
used on two vehicles competing in the 2014 Dakar Rally.
The charity supports combat injured team members with lifeAs a distributor with no owned logistics or freight, the Groups primary changing injuries participating in Motorsport.
direct energy usage and related CO emissions arise from the Groups 2 facilities.
Where possible the Group has reported billed data which The Group also contributes to local worthwhile causes and charities represents ca.
80% of the Groups global emissions.
For the remaining and in 2014 the Group made donations of 42,698 2013: 32,359. entities the Group has used an estimation using sales data and local No political donations were made.
An intensity ratio of CO e per 1m turnover has been selected, which 2 will allow a comparison of our performance over time and with other similar types of business.
Tonnes of Co E 2 Source of emissions 2014 2013 Direct emissions Scope 1 Natural gas 822.0 779.4 Owned transport 63.2 60.1 Indirect emissions Scope 2 Electricity 2,015.1 1,973.6 Gross emissions 2,900.3 2,813.1 Tonnes CO e per 1m revenue 9.5 9.9 2
