Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report Dixons Retail believes that it has a responsibility to its to add to and promote the customer proposition in relation stakeholders and the environment to act as a socially to product reuse and recycling.
We believe that good sustainability practices make sound business sense, not only to benefit Members of the Committee have been identified as accountable the environment, stakeholders and the communities in which for each priority.
The main areas of the Committees we operate, but also to help us achieve our corporate responsibilities are set out below.
objectives, fulfil our business plan and reduce costs.
Business ethics Corporate responsibility management framework The way we do business is important to us and forms part of our Humphrey Singer, Group Finance Director, is the Board corporate responsibility objectives.
Our shared values are to: member responsible for corporate responsibility matters.
He is supported by the Corporate Responsibility CR operate with honesty and integrity: Committee, which comprises senior executives from key give outstanding service to our customers: business areas.
The Committee is chaired by Helen Grantham, Company Secretary and General Counsel and met three times respect our colleagues: during the period under review.
A summary of the key matters treat suppliers with respect and to check the ethical values discussed are listed below: of the businesses we intend to deal with: Reviewing the results of the completed sustainability review continually seek ways to improve performance: and and identifying ways to implement the corporate responsibility work together to beat our competition.
The Dixons Retail Ethical Conduct Policy applies to all Consideration of the new mandatory carbon reporting requirements and the compliance mechanisms required.
employees and all employees at managerial level must sign an annual statement to confirm that the policy is adhered to.
Implementing processes and procedures to enable carbon reporting across the geographic regions as required for the Customer services Groups reporting obligations.
We are proud to serve many customers every year in our Monitoring key performance indicators at each meeting.
stores, over the telephone and on-line.
In the tough economic environment of the last few years, our customers have looked Ongoing evaluation of the Groups risks and opportunities to us to provide greater value, choice, service and a high level and identification of areas where the Committee can enhance of specialist advice, and we have reinvigorated our business reporting or control mechanisms already in place.
Reviewing Group health and safety performance.
Throughout the year we have spoken regularly to customers Supply chain risks and social and ethical auditing.
who have shopped in our stores, visited our websites and used our KNOWHOW services about their experiences, and Our approach to corporate responsibility this feedback has been used to drive continuous improvement In accordance with the approach to corporate responsibility across all areas of our business.
We engage with our customers contained within the Association of British Insurers Guidelines, in a variety of ways including personal feedback from store Dixons Retail seeks to identify the risks and opportunities which exit surveys, telephone interviews, and on-line and mobile are most significant and relevant to its business rather than text surveys.
Accordingly, the Committee maintains a matrix of risks and opportunities that are specific One of the main statistics we monitor is whether our customers to its business.
The principal risks to the Group as a whole are likely to recommend us.
The customer satisfaction measures are outlined in the Principal Risks to Achieving the Groups are combined with key performance indicators from across Objectives section.
The monitoring of the risks and operations, people and finance to form our scorecard.
This opportunities allows the identification of our main exposures provides a balanced view of how we are doing and is reviewed and most significant opportunities.
A plan is then produced to regularly by the Committee and the Board.
mitigate exploit those exposures opportunities in line with the risk appetite of the Group.
Our priorities continue to be: As part of our commitment to delivering customer service to the highest standards, our colleagues work to ensure that to provide a safe and healthy environment for customers, our communications with customers are clear and that the colleagues and visitors to our stores and other locations: information we present to them is accurate and not misleading.
We maintain compliance with trading standards and legal to engage colleagues through the provision of rewarding requirements.
Our policies and procedures integrate those workplace environments and careers, whilst assisting in standards into our daily work.
the ongoing improvement of customer service levels: to improve operational energy efficiency and forward planning: to reduce our impact on the environment and to reduce costs and raise revenue through improved waste recycling: the monitoring and reduction of our main carbon emissions: the provision of safe and reliable own-brand products, achieved as a result of our expert technical knowledge with products sourced from manufacturers which are audited against our ethical requirements: and Dixons Retail plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued Supplier relationships Carbon management Many of our electrical products are sourced through major The Group remains committed to a carbon management international brands, which have their own strong ethical and programme and has invested in specific sustainability reporting environmental policies in place.
software which will give Group-wide emissions and carbon data for all properties to the CR Committee.
This will allow The Group operates its own Ethical Sourcing Policy based on comparison of operational efficiency of stores in each operating the Social Accountability 8000 and the FTSE4Good criteria.
We have our own social and ethical auditing team and audit suppliers of our own brand products prior to selection against This will be our reporting platform going forward: strict trading terms and operating procedures.
Included within The Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC energy efficiency these terms are minimum standards in respect of health and scheme in the UK, we have reported our Scope 2 safety, wages, working hours, equal opportunities, freedom of emissions for the final year of the CRC Phase 1 with a further association, collective bargaining and disciplinary procedures.
reduction against the 2012 13 financial year of 4%.
It is also against our terms of operation to employ any forced or The Group is a registered participant for Phase 2 of CRC.
Once the audits are complete, suppliers are rated on a traffic light basis.
Green status on an audit indicates that Mandatory Greenhouse Gas GHG Reporting the Group a supplier meets or exceeds all of our standards.
Amber status will be reporting for the first time under the new legislation on global Group emissions.
indicates that some of the standards required have not been fully met.
Red status means that some significant failures were Carbon Disclosure Project CDP the Group is currently identified against our Ethical Sourcing Policy standards.
considering whether to report for CDP in the coming year.
Suppliers are approved if they reach either green or amber status in our audits.
Once suppliers have been approved Greenhouse gas reporting they remain subject to regular checks and audits and their Greenhouse gas emissions for the Group for the financial year status may be adjusted accordingly.
ending 30 April 2014 are: These supplier audits are carried out with a view to assisting Tonnes of CO 2 1 them in improving their working practices and we work with Category source of emissions emitted factories where failures have been identified.
Where this is Combustion of fuel 15,239 not possible or no improvements are made, they will not be Operation of any facility 1,793 approved as a supplier, or will be delisted as appropriate.
Purchase of electricity 101,757 During the year under review, 14 suppliers were classified 118,789 as red, failed to make improvements and therefore the Group did not approve them to supply our branded products or they were delisted.
Tonnes of CO 2 emitted per 2 1,000 ft The results of ethical supply chain audits carried out during the 2 of floor area period under review are detailed below: Intensity measure 6.97 Performance indicators 2013 14 2012 13 1 Exclusions comprise: Franchises as they do not fall directly under the Groups Green 0 0 operational control, emissions generated within properties occupied by the Group but operated by the relevant landlord and refrigerant data from Nordics Amber 102 74 as data was not available although this is estimated to be less than 0.34% of Red 26 25 total emissions for the Group.
2 2 Overall floor area of the Group is 17,052,000 ft and the calculations use the Total factories audited 128 99 methodology set out in Defras updated greenhouse gas reporting guidance, Delisted not approved 14 10 Environmental Reporting Guidelines ref.
Energy management Environment The Group has continued to work on reducing its energy use Dixons Retail recognises that it has a responsibility to manage and improving the energy efficiency of our operations, showing the impact of its business on the environment.
We have a 4% reduction in electricity consumption this year in the UK.
enhanced our reporting process to give better visibility of GroupThis work will continue into 2014 15.
We are now collecting half wide carbon emissions.
hourly electricity data from over 95% of sites across the UK and Ireland and are aiming to reach 100% by the end of summer Key areas of focus continue to be: 2014.
This enables us to accurately monitor consumption at individual site level to ensure we are operating as efficiently energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, as possible.
distribution centres and offices: fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either The programme to connect all stores building management stores or customers homes: systems to a national energy monitoring centre continues and will allow more strategic energy enhancements to be made.
use of refrigerant gases: waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres and As part of our continued drive to simplify our business offices: and operations in the UK, we have consolidated our electricity supply chains to a single source supplier with 98% of our unwanted electrical equipment collected for recycling.
This will be 100% by the end of summer 2014.
Dixons Retail plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued A proactive management system is in place to monitor the half Workplace hourly consumption data through the energy management Our colleagues centre and deal quickly with out of profile electricity usage.
Our people form the heart of our business and are the key to the delivery of excellent service for our customers.
They are We will also soon be utilising energy dashboards across all UK the face of our business and truly understand our customers operations.
For the first time our individual stores will be able and their needs.
to see their own energy consumption data and understand their own efficiency opportunities.
All our UK and Ireland We want them to flourish and are committed to providing the stores now see their energy costs on their monthly profit right development opportunities to help them reach their full and loss statement.
potential and actively contribute to the success of our business.
We continue to explore new technologies and advanced We value and respect each colleague and endeavour to engage strategies to assist in our programme of energy reduction.
their talents and abilities to the fullest extent.
We want to be We have successfully trialled a bespoke lighting strategy in recognised as an employer of choice and aim to reward our new store in Cramlington which adjusts the store lighting colleagues fairly, to provide equality of opportunity, personal in relation to the external ambient brightness during the development and training.
Our culture supports the discovery trading day.
of new and better ways of working, two-way communication and the speedy resolution of any concerns or queries.
We monitor We are also in talks with a number of landlords regarding our staff turnover rates regularly.
partnering on an initiative to install photovoltaic panels on the rooftops of our stores and using the electricity generated We also review regularly our benefits packages for colleagues in store.
to ensure that they are attractive and conducive to the recruitment and retention of talented people.
We encourage all colleagues Waste and recycling to participate in our Save As You Earn Sharesave scheme to We have continued to drive efficiencies through refuse and build a personal stake in the business.
In the last year, 70% of the waste generated from our stores now goes into recycling streams This summer we have launched a new benefits portal which will and not into landfill.
act as a one stop shop for all colleagues to learn more about and access the variety of the benefits we offer.
We have now installed cardboard balers in 147 UK stores.
Each of these stores now uses their stock delivery lorries to backhaul We work to achieve high standards in employment practices cardboard, polythene and expanded polystyrene for recycling.
and have a comprehensive suite of employment policies and We are in the planning stages of extending this backhaul to all procedures, which we review regularly.
These policies include stores and will start a trial in Scotland early next year.
We will guidance on being family friendly through to colleague dispute also extend this programme to recycle paper from our stores.
management, diversity and equal opportunities.
Our National Distribution Centre in Newark diverted 90% of its Equal opportunities waste into recycling streams rather than landfill and our UK The Group is committed to equality of opportunity across all store refit programme transferred 95% of the waste generated of its employment practices throughout the Group.
We strive away from landfill and into recycling streams.
to prevent unlawful discrimination in the workplace on the grounds of sex, race, disability, sexual orientation, religion or Through our national distribution network in the UK, we expect religious belief, age, marriage and civil partnership, gender to recycle over 60,000 tonnes of Waste Electrical and Electronic reassignment, pregnancy and maternity.
To that extent, we Equipment WEEE which is an increase of 23% on last years promote an open and honest environment and encourage volumes.
We have delivered over 10,500 trailers of WEEE into colleagues with concerns to report issues to us either directly various recyclers across the year, which otherwise would have through line managers or via the independent, confidential returned empty to our distribution centre.
Transport and distribution Disability We have driven some outstanding efficiency in our UK transport We encourage applications from individuals with disabilities fleet with a relatively modest increase in emissions from a who can do the job, and all candidates will be considered for significant increase in goods transported.
We are committed to providing colleagues with equal opportunities, from recruitment to training Fleet emissions in the UK are at 14,736 tonnes for the year, and development.
We make every effort to retain disabled increasing 9.2% year on year with miles driven up 4.02%.
colleagues in our employment including any reasonable Transported volume was up by 22.84% year on year and cube adjustment to their jobs, workplace or environment.
3 delivered per mile driven up by 21.85% 1.63 more m per mile.
3 Overall combined trailer fill is up by 6.37m per vehicle, 12.47%.
Diversity Dixons recognises the importance of diversity, including, but Within our Home Delivery fleet, we have introduced 150 brand not restricted to, gender diversity and the important role that new 7.5 tonne vehicles to replace vehicles reaching the end of diversity plays in achieving the right mix of skills, knowledge and their lease.
These have come in fully fitted with tracking and experience in order to help our organisation reach its potential.
telematics and also forward facing cameras, which allows us to get full management reporting analysis of vehicle and driver performance.
This will help reduce accidents, improve driving efficiencies and also support us with accident investigations and dealing with insurance claims.
Dixons Retail plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued Diversity in terms of age and gender remains a key and best practice are adhered to.
This is supported by performance indicator and we report on gender below: Group Health and Safety standards that the business units formally confirm compliance with.
All Employees Senior managers Directors Number % Number % Number % In the UK in the past year we have undertaken a number Male 23,528 70% 12 75% 7 78% of initiatives related to key priorities, including: Female 9,970 30% 4 25% 2 22% Prevention root cause analysis on accident types followed Senior managers incorporate those individuals included as key management by relevant action plans to reduce repeat occurrences.
personnel in note 31 to the Financial Statements, but excludes executive and Elimination of hazards at source through close working non-executive directors of Dixons Retail plc which are shown separately.
with design and development teams.
Human rights Engagement improved engagement with middle Dixons is committed to upholding and respecting human rights.
management of the businesses demonstrating benefits While we do not operate a separate human rights policy, these of effective risk control.
Focused behavioural safety values are reflected in our equal opportunity practices conversations with colleagues to reinforce the work throughout the Group, and in our ethical policies and processes.
Accountability a clear structure has been set out covering We expect all our suppliers to operate in a fair and honest way the following traits: Responsible, Accountable, Support, towards their employees and with whom they do business.
Consulted, Informed RASCI, developed to ensure that the matrix management structure in place is fully understood Training and development and that all parties are executing their responsibilities.
Each of our international businesses has their own method of performance development.
In the UK our personal and career Compliance to ensure that key policies are complied with development processes are designed to ensure all our people a more robust system has been implemented to ensure that have the skills to meet the requirements of their roles.
Each reporting is accurate, timely and of sufficient depth.
Auditing person has regular one-to-one time on their performance.
Store and inspection processes are in place to confirm compliance.
colleagues follow a training career path and have a personal development review on the anniversary of their start date.
Head These initiatives have resulted in reducing employee accidents office and colleagues in Home Services have a personal in UK supply chain by 35% and in the UK as a whole by 28%.
appraisal and development plan agreed with their line manager.
Accidents per 100,000 customers in the UK and Ireland have We also encourage our office-based colleagues to work in store been reduced by 8%.
to support our sales teams and to increase their understanding of the Groups operations.
We also run talent programmes to Health and safety performance is reviewed by the CR develop high achievers and to improve leadership skills in our Committee on a quarterly basis, with an in-depth review management population.
The Group Health and Safety Policy, KPI performance in the preceding 12 months and priorities for the year ahead are We review our policies and training methods to ensure we reviewed and approved by the Board.
continue to meet our obligations.
Health and safety: employee accidents and injuries Employee communications 2013 14 2012 13 We have a comprehensive colleague engagement programme Number of accidents or injuries reported 723 876 across the business.
This summer we will run the third Rate of accidents per 1,000 employees 34 43 consecutive colleague engagement survey during which the majority of colleagues across the Group are invited to tell us in Data for UK & Ireland.
confidence how they feel about working for Dixons.
As a result of these surveys initiatives are put in place to confirm our drive Community and charitable donations to make the business a great place to work.
During the year colleagues and businesses across the Group have been encouraged to support charities of their choice.
The We also recognise the importance of effective two-way amount of charitable donations made by the Group is set out in communications and collaboration.
In the UK and Ireland a the Statutory Information section of this Annual Report and new Sharepoint intranet and a colleague-focused magazine are Accounts, and examples of some of the key initiatives are set both in development to promote a united vision and awareness out below.
of what the different parts of the business contribute to our overall success.
UK & Ireland Total charity donations of approximately 233,800 were made Health and safety during the year in the UK.
The business continued its support It is the policy of the Group to comply with relevant health and for Children in Need enabling our colleagues across our store, safety and fire safety legislation and to take all reasonably service and logistics networks to get behind fundraising efforts practicable steps to ensure the health, safety and welfare of for a nationally branded fundraising event that supports causes all employees, visitors and members of the public who are or across the UK and importantly local to their respective place of may be affected by our activities.
As a result of a number of activities, total fundraising and donations to Children in Need of 150,500 were made.
Dixons Retail encourages a positive health and safety culture The majority of this was from the fundraising efforts of our throughout the Groups business, taking measures to maintain colleagues across the business with approximately 15,000 a safe environment for our customers and colleagues.
coming from the DSG International Foundation.
A comprehensive safety management system is operated throughout the business to ensure legislative requirements Dixons Retail plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued The Group also continued its support for the Tablets for Schools campaign with a donation of 50,000.
This is a joint initiative with Carphone Warehouse that aims to give all 11 year olds access to tablet computers at school.
It is currently undergoing trials and we look forward to developing this initiative further in the year ahead.
The Group also made donations of products totalling approximately 31,000.
This included a number of electrical items for those affected by the floods in the UK at the beginning of 2014, as well as a number of products for the BBCs DIY SOS build for the Chilterns MS Centre.
The total charitable donations made by the DSG international Foundation in 2013 14 were 66,000 2012 13 1,350.
For the 2014 15 financial year in the UK we have decided to continue our support for Children in Need, with an emphasis on each of our business locations and stores engaging directly with beneficiaries of funds raised local to them.
Outside the UK Elkjp continues to support the Red Cross Water for Life Vann for Livet project and donated approximately NOK 1.9 million to the Red Cross Water for Life project during 2013 14.
Key performance indicators The performance criteria reported above are largely focused on the Groups UK & Ireland and the Nordics businesses which represent 96% of Group revenues from continuing operations in the period.
Humphrey Singer Executive Director with responsibility for Corporate Responsibility Dixons Retail plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
