CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DELIVERING ON OUR RESPONSIBILITIES As a global manufacturing business, we have an impact on society and the environment.
By taking responsibility to make this impact as positive as possible, we reduce our business risk and create long-term value for our key stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, suppliers, staff and our local communities.
To achieve this, we strive for the highest standards of business practice.
This means supporting, developing and rewarding our employees: minimising our environmental impact: and engaging with the communities in which we operate.
VALUES How we behave is just as important as what we do.
Our core values are the essence of our identity and drive us to be our best in every decision and business relationship.
Our achievements in 2014 reflect these values.
IN 2014 WE DID IN 2015 WE WILL Launch a new Domino Code for suppliers, to Renew and reinvigorate our Group wide suite Clarity and focus ensure the sustainability of our supply chain.
of safety, health and environment policies.
Achieve OHSAS 18001 certification at our newly Conduct externally verified energy audits of our Commitment expanded Cambridge, UK, manufacturing site.
three largest manufacturing sites worldwide.
Reduce our CO footprint per square metre of Design our new infrastructure investments for Energy and urgency 2 facilities space by 3 per cent.
Refresh training for all staff on anti-bribery Provide more opportunities for our customers Listening and legislation and the Groups ethics policy.
to share their views with us through an honesty increased range of feedback options at different points in the customer journey.
Establish an apprentice scheme at our main Engage all Group businesses with local Team work manufacturing site.
educational initiatives and childrens charities.
Build on our support for educational initiatives by Act as business ambassadors for the worldAttitude helping young people develop business skills, with renowned Addenbrookes teaching hospital the support of our expert staff.
inCambridge, to encourage more businesses tofundraise.
34 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS We have identified the following corporate responsibility issues as having the greatest potential impact on our business and our key stakeholders.
AT OUR SITES Energy use Waste generation VOC emissions Environment ON THE ROAD Fleet fuel use HEALTH AND SAFETY Logistics fuel use Occupational illness andaccidents OUR PRODUCTS Work environment Energy usage of Safety of workforce on printersduring lifetime the road and at VOC emissions customers sites Waste reduction Value Chain Workplace OUR WORKFORCE Employee social BUSINESS ETHICS activities Preventing corruption Local hiring practices Protecting human rights OUR WORKFORCE Community Diversity and inclusion OUR COMMUNITIES Engagement Community impacts Training and development from business activity OUR PRODUCTS Supporting community Quality projects and charitable Product stewardship initiatives COMMITMENT TO REPORTING baseincreases.
We were delighted that to EuPIAs exclusion list, which is a list of Sustainability is as important to our theGreen Organisation recognised these raw materials that signatories voluntarily stakeholders as it is to us, so we strive innovations by giving us a Green Apple exclude from their printing inks.
As such, tocontinually improve our corporate award for environmental best practice.
we formulate our ink products with safety responsibility reporting, so all our in mind and can reassure our customers stakeholders can see how we are doing.
Our V-Series printers provide excellent that our inks offer leading performance in We were delighted that our efforts were environmental efficiency, by using up to their composition and safety.
recognised this year by meeting the new, 60per cent less ribbon than competitors more demanding, requirements of the printers and not requiring an additional We operate in global markets, with FTSE4Good Index Series and achieving our compressed air power source.
In addition, ouroperations covering 16 countries sixth consecutive year of membership.
the smart power saving mode we designed andour value chain reaching to more than ensures that during operation, the printer 140.
We continue our drive to progress PRODUCT PORTFOLIO consumes at least 15 per cent less power sustainability throughout our supply chain.
We work to establish an environmental than equivalent products.
As part of this, we launched this year the leadership position with our printers, by Domino Supplier Code.
The Code is developing resource-efficient technologies In designing our next generation of founded on the UN Global Compact and that reduce energy use, waste and emissions continuous ink jet printers, we are using a mandates the minimum ethical, labour, of volatile organic compounds VOCs.
This gives us insight health and safety, and environmental into the impact of changes to product standards we expect our suppliers to This year, we made further advances in architecture, at the earliest stage of meet.
The Code can be downloaded from thedesign of our revolutionary A420i research and development.
These changes reduced both make up and ink use the The European Printing Ink Association main sources of VOC emissions during EuPIA is a division of CEPE, an industry coding by 50 per cent.
In addition, the body for manufacturers of paints, printing printers reduced service routine will cut inks and artists colours.
We are the only our service engineers travel by up to coding and marking business that is a 1.2million miles a year, as our installed member of CEPE and we have signed up Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED CUSTOMER FIRST HUMAN RIGHTS We work hard to improve the breadth We actively seek our customers views and anddepth of our understanding about our welcome their interest in our operations, environmental and social performance and by responding to many questionnaires and report on several indicators which can be The Group is committed to audit requests each year.
We are always viewed on our website.
We have had ISO protecting internationally proclaimed pleased to host customer visits to our 14001 certification at all our ink plants for human rights throughout our value global operations.
This year we asked external chain.
We base our actions on the auditors to conduct social audits SMETA UN Declaration of Human Rights We motivate our staff to provide pillar 4 at our manufacturing sites in the and the UN Convention Against exemplary service.
Our Group Training UK, Germany and China, which confirmed Academy ensures our global engineers are Corruption.
The most significant that we are demonstrating excellent ethical always up to date on our products latest human rights impacts for our standards in our operations.
We also enhancements and new features.
We business are: completed our fourth year of reporting to employ learning technologies to run virtual the Carbon Disclosure Project.
We were training sessions that reach all corners of particularly pleased to have increased our respecting the diversity of our the world, without the need for travel.
reporting score again, from 74C in 2013 to staff and customers and looking During the year, we delivered over 30 81B in 2014. after their health and safety: virtual sessions, engaging more than 300 ensuring our suppliers respect engineers in more than 40 countries.
Since 2011, we have measured our therights of their staff: greenhouse gas emissions at our four Coding and marking technologies play a contributing positively to the 1 largest manufacturing sites.
This year, we crucial role in supporting national and wellbeing of the communities improved our data collection methodology international efforts to protect consumer inwhich we operate: and and reassessed our previous data.
As a health and tackle counterfeiting.
Our maintaining a firm stance result, we have seen a 7 per cent decrease reputation as experts in the field has led to againstcorruption.
in our emissions from the 2011 baseline.
governments, manufacturers and industry bodies around the world inviting us to advise We also measure the greenhouse on how to better identify products and gasfootprint of the entire Group and enable authentication for a safer supply chain.
havesimilarly reassessed this, using our For instance, we have been closely involved improved data collection methodology.
in developing measures to improve patient This year, our footprint was 10,462 tonnes safety through pharmaceutical coding.
of CO equivalent, a 0.2 per cent increase 2 on last years total emissions.
However our BUSINESS EXCELLENCE objective was to reduce our emissions We are committed to positive action in relative to our floorspace by 3 per cent.
Our Corporate We achieved a 5 per cent decrease.
Responsibility Policy, which we established in 2011, provides the framework by which We have also continued to improve we set environmental and ethical standards ourrecycling initiatives.
Our total waste for every business and channel in our tonnage was 1,530 tonnes across the Group.
Our Board receives quarterly Group, of which 47 per cent was recycled reports on our performance and in comparison to 1,444 tonnes and 40 per compliance with these standards.
2014 2013 The health and safety of our staff, Combustion of fuel tonnes of contractors and visitors is of paramount CO e 5,676 5,826 2 importance to us.
We have OHSAS 18001 Electricity, heating and cooling purchased for our use tonnes of at all our ink plants and our Cambridge CO e 4,786 4,611 2 HQ and manufacturing site.
Our objective Tonnes of CO e per m of revenue 29.88 31.09 2 is to continue to reduce the number of Tonnes of CO e per full time employee 4.61 4.73 2 accidents across the Group.
We support 2 Tonnes of CO e per m of facilities space 0.16 0.17 2 this continual improvement by assessing Total footprint tonnes of procedures and performance in all our CO e 10,462 10,437 sales channels and business units each year.
2 We expect and encourage staff to be Note: This footprint is a report on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and proactive on health and safety issues and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We have reported on 97 per cent of the Group by staff head count.
The remaining 3 per cent of staff are distributed across 36 small sites which, due to their small size and the low energy intensity of their activities, are 1 Cambridge UK, Shanghai China, Liverpool UK, not significant to our footprint.
The sources reported are under our operational control.
We have used the Greenhouse Gas Gurnee USA.
Protocol methodology for compiling our greenhouse gas data.
36 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS provided more than 6,100 hours of health Our employee benefits package is designed Our dedication to sustainability is driving and safety training this year.
As a result, our to respond to staff needs at every stage of usto achieve the best in all areas of our accidents reduced to 73 this year in their working life.
We also provide many business.
We are committed for the long comparison to 104 last year.
This is an opportunities to socialise and team build.
term to operate our business according to average of 0.032 accidents per person.
For example, Domino France staged a a strong set of values and ethical practices.
country lunch for all employees to share, We know that by making unrelenting In addition to formal health and safety Domino China held an open day for our efforts to improve our performance, we systems, we have run anti-smoking and employees families to visit the factory and are enhancing our business for the benefit weight loss campaigns and provided join in games and lunch together, and in the of all our stakeholders.
opportunities to engage in sports activities.
UK our social club has staged 23 events for GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS staff and their families.
As a result of our AT BASELINE SITES We take a zero-tolerance approach efforts to be an excellent employer, we TONNES OF CO EQUIVALENT 2 tocorruption.
We require that all our were proud to offer long-service awards to employees, agents and business partners 715 staff across the Group, for 10 years or 2014 2,986 3,890 demonstrate the highest standards of more service.
2013 2,985 3,816 professionalism, fairness and integrity when conducting business on our behalf.
We do We work best as a business when we 2012 3,277 3,577 not make any contributions to political workwith our local communities.
As well as 2011 3,249 4,150 parties and our charitable donations creating local jobs, we have apprenticeship arenot made to gain any commercial schemes, we offer work experience Scope 1 is the direct emissions from fuel advantage.
This year, all our staff have placements for local studentsand we engage consumption and industrial processes.
This takes undertaken training to refresh their with educational initiatives to promote the form of gas for heating, diesel and petrol used knowledge of anti-corruption legislation science, technology, engineering and in vehicles and diesel for electricity generators.
and confirm their commitment to mathematics to young people.
Scope 2 is the indirect emissions from the We also take great pleasure in our ties generation of purchased electricity.
CULTURE AND PEOPLE with charities in our communities.
For Domino is its employees.
Our highly example, during 2014: skilledand motivated employees drive the success of the business.
We aim to employ Domino China supported a number of a workforce that reflects the diversity of initiatives working with disabled people: our customers and the communities we Domino India made donations and operate in.
dedicated staff time to support a localorphanage: We maintain an environment where Domino Germany donated their old allemployees can develop to their full laptops to a local school: and potential and advance their careers.
Across Domino France sponsored a the Group this year, we delivered more community disabled basketball team.
than 31,000 hours of formal training to our staff, an average of 13 hours per person.
In We also encourage staff to become addition, we provide many opportunities involved in charitable activities and CASE STUDY to develop on-the-job skills.
For instance, fundraising by matching their funds, this year our Digital Printing team worked andallowing them to nominate which with a leading professor of colour imaging, organisations the Group supports.
This Our new Indian factory was designed to support their professional development year, our business donated more than with energy efficiency in mind.
By and enhance their skills in this area.
50,000 to charitable causes, with a making the most of natural daylight, further 21,000 donated by our staff.
Through our quarterly National Employee we should have no need for electric Domino UK has fielded a team in the Council meetings, we ensure open lighting during the day, and fresh air London to Cambridge charity bike ride for discussion with our employees on the status seven consecutive years and this year one ventilation is improving the working of all areas of our operations.
In addition, we of our colleagues swam across environment while reducing the need run internal surveys annually to find out Windermere, Englands largest natural lake.
The Domino how employees view group management.
While a team of runners from Domino India team is very proud of the new As a result, we know that we continue to Laser entered a relay race to raise money building and has applied to the Indian achieve high levels of staff satisfaction with for city forests.
Building Council for Green the support and communication they Factorycertification.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 37
