STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility report In 2013, we began to develop a corporate social Community values have always been responsibility 'CSR' strategy by analysing our current atour heart, but we realise there is more business practices and devising a plan for the years to to being a responsible business than come.
We have a successful business, built on a simple business model deliver hot, freshly made pizza to our our charitable funding, namely the customers as quickly as is safely possible.
quality of our food, the impact we have We have a responsibility to uphold the solid reputation our on the environment and how we treat business has formed since we arrived in the UK in 1985. our employees.
Toensure we build a sustainable business for the future, we have developed a responsible delivery plan, our CSR strategy.
FOOD FOOD ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT o Premium quality, great tasting, innovative o Reduce energy consumption, reduce, recycle and reuse waste and reduce emissions Food Environment page 29 page 30 EMPL EMPLO OYEES YEES COMMUNITY COMMUNITY o Happy staff, healthy staff, engaged staff o To care, to share and to be at the heart  Employees Community page 32 page 33 Dominos Pizza Group plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOOD FOOD OUR AIM IS TO SERVE OUR CUSTOMERS GREAT TASTING, QUALITY FOOD.
Working in partnership with our suppliers ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 We have continued to work closely with our suppliers to make sure thatour pizza has the best quality ingredients in it.
We are proud that, o Allergens information on all our products is now during 2014, we managed to get every one of our suppliers of food and displayed online and at the point of sale in store packaging products to the UK to sign up to the Supplier Ethical Data o All food and packaging suppliers have signed Exchange SEDEX.
uptothe Supplier Ethical Data Exchange SEDEX is an organisation with thousands of members and seeks to promote ethical and responsible business practices in supply chains.
Bysigning up to SEDEX, our suppliers can share data about their supply Being a food delivery business, the origin and quality of chain, business practices and employee practices on an online platform the food we supply to our customers is paramount.
All our which we can view to ensure that all our suppliers meet our ethical standards.
pizzas are freshly made to order, using only the best quality ingredients we can source.
OBJECTIVES FOR 2015 Nutrition o Further reduce the salt content ofour products During 2014, we continued to work on the pledges we made as part o Seek to increase the sustainability credentials ofthe Department of Healths Responsibility Deal.
As a signatory to the ofthe products we buy Responsibility Deal, we have pledged to ensure that our products do not contain artificial trans-fats, reduce the amount of salt in our food and provide out-of-home calorie labelling.
We are proud to state that we haveno trans-fats, artificial colourings or flavourings in any of our food.
Read more online We have continued to work closely with our suppliers to see where corporate.
co. uk csr further changes can be made to reduce the amount of salt in our products.
We will continue our work on this in the coming year and look for opportunities to reduce salt in our products.
During the coming year, we will also look to include further information regarding the nutritional content of our products to help customers make informed choices.
Product sourcing We continue to look at ways of reducing food miles, where possible, through local sourcing whilst maintaining the best quality products.
Weare proud that all of the mozzarella we use is sourced in the UK from north-west Wales using milk produced on farms no further than a160-mile radius of the production plant.
During 2014, we continued to source tuna caught by pole and line as it is a more sustainable fishing method.
We also looked for further opportunities to increase the sustainability credentials of the products we buy, which is something we will continue to pursue in 2015.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility report continued ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT During 2014, we continued to procure vehicles that comply with the latest EC emission and noise specifications and encouraged road safety and good driving practices by providing a high standard of driver training.
We also completed the roll-out of a dynamic routing system across the UK and ROI.
This system allows us to optimise capacity loading and use each truck to deliver to more stores, thereby reducing overall transport miles and the number of trucks on the road.
Striving for zero waste to landfill This year we took one step closer to reaching zero to landfill, with over 95% of our waste in the UK being either recycled or recovered.
We comply with the greenhouse gas 'GHG' emissions reporting requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 for GHG emissions.
Our GHG emissions inventory ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 We have adopted a financial control approach to defining our o Reduced our CO e emissions per tonne of dough organisational boundary: as a result we report GHG emissions from 2 allfour markets considered as part of the Groups current financial produced by 10% compared to our baseline year consolidation: UK, ROI, Switzerland and Germany.
Accountability for o Reduced speed limit by 5.5% across our entire our overall environmental performance rests with the Group Executive.
supply chain fleet in the UK and ROI The methodology used to compile this data is in accordance with the o Rolled out dynamic routing across supply chain requirements of the following standards: the World Resources Institutes todrive fuel efficiency Greenhouse Gas Protocol and DEFRAs Environmental Reporting Guidelines including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting o Implemented energy management system guidance June 2013 and ISO 14064 part one.
tomonitor energy usage 1 Our reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September and the 2013 2014 GHG emissions inventory marks our second year of GHG emissions reporting.
Our material GHG emissions from business Driving energy efficiency activities in this period amounts to 12,360 tonnes tCO e, as set out 2 We are committed to continually looking at innovative ways to improve intable 1 opposite.
our energy performance across our Supply Chain Centres and fleet of trucks.
To maximise the efforts of our facilities and transport teams in We continue to track GHG emissions over time against our dough this area, we have decided to use the internationally recognised best production levels.
As such our intensity ratio for this reporting year practice energy management standard ISO 50001 as a framework for is0.40 tCO e per tonne of dough produced.
We began implementation of the A more detailed view system at our Head Office and Supply Chain Centre in Milton Keynes as well as our second largest Supply Chain Centre in Penrith.
By using the In addition to the business activities outlined above, the Group collects structured approach provided by the standard, we have increased our data on a more expanded scope of activities which we believe to be understanding of equipment and fleet efficiencies and we are in the pertinent to our carbon management strategy.
The GHG emissions from process of developing an energy efficiency opportunities programme.
these activities have been broken down at market level for each reporting scope see table 2 opposite.
Furthermore, as of 1 April 2014, we are complying with phase two of the Carbon Reduction Commitment 'CRC' energy efficiency scheme and Our total carbon footprint against this expanded scope was 13,287 tCO2e we are working with our franchisees with the aim of collecting and and our carbon intensity ratio was 0.43 tCO e per tonne of dough 2 profiling the energy consumption of each store.
In 2015, we wish to take produced: this has decreased by 10% since the baseline, putting us on this work to the next level by helping our franchisees to identify energy track to meet our target to reduce CO e per tonne of dough produced 2 efficiency opportunities across their operations.
In summary: Delivering smarter As part of our delivering smarter commitment, we have achieved our o our emissions from natural gas and kerosene are down as a result 2014 target of reducing the speed limits of our vehicles that deliver the ofmilder winter months in the UK and ROI: fresh dough and ingredients supplied by our Supply Chain Centres to o emissions from vehicles owned by the Group are down as a result of stores.
Vehicle speeds have been reduced by 5.5% across the fleet fuel efficiency measures in the UK and improvements in data quality which has allowed us to deliver more miles on less fuel and reduce for our German market: emission levels of all our vehicles.
o emissions from our purchased electricity are up as a result of an 11% uplift in the UK conversion factor compared to last year: and o overall energy usage has remained stable despite an increase inproduction of 12%.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our GHG emissions inventory covers all four markets but does not include franchisee emissions as we do not have sufficiently accurate information OBJECTIVES FOR 2015 to report on the impact of franchisee operations.
It also excludes the o Achieve certification to ISO 50001 for our UK following: GHG emissions from refrigerants, air and rail travel from energy management system our operations in Switzerland and Germany and water consumed by our corporate stores in Germany.
Where data is incomplete i. e. less o Continue to identify opportunities for waste than 12months of data is available, GHG emissions are extrapolated reduction in line with our commitment to continue from the available information and references to accounting and reducing waste calculation methodologies for any assumptions, estimations and re-calculations performed have beendocumented.
Table 1 2 Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e 2 2 Emissions source baseline 2013 2014 Natural gas 802 710 CO e from the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facilities 2 Kerosene 99 71 Refrigerant 189 156 3 Owned vehicles 6,726 6,359 CO e from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling Purchased 4,500 5,064 2 bytheCompany for its own use electricity Total 12,316 12,360 Table 2 Total Group 2013 2014 tonnes of CO e UK ROI Switzerland Germany Total Group baseline % change 2 Scope 1 Natural gas 391 164 155 710 802 -11% Kerosene 71 71 99 -28% Refrigerant 91 65 156 189 -17% Owned vehicles 5,432 694 54 179 6,359 6,726 -5% Scope 2 Purchased electricity 4,399 345 16 305 5,064 4,501 13% Scope 3 4 Water 15 1 7 1 23 24 -4% Waste 21 17 38 39 -3% 5 Business travel 223 223 342 -35% 6 Hired vehicles 179 34 213 n a n a 7 Electricity transmission and distribution 385 28 1 15 429 351 22% Total tonnes CO e 11,136 1,255 242 654 13,286 13,073 2% 2 Out of scopes 121 14 1 8 144 139 4% Notes 1 Our financial reporting year is the calendar year: however, we have set our 5 This includes both air and rail travel booked through the Companys travel provider reporting period back by a quarter to facilitate data collection.
in the UK and ROI: no data is currently available for Switzerland and Germany and travel in these two markets is believed to be minimal.
Furthermore the drop in 2 We report all material GHG emissions, using tonnes of COequivalent tCO e 2 2 emissions from business travel is linked to a change in booking and reporting as the unit, to account for all GHGs which are attributable to human activity, as systems and not a result of business drivers.
We will work to improve data defined in section 92 of the Climate Change Act 2008 a.
The only exception is accuracy and consistency in reporting.
for GHG emissions from electricity in ROI, Switzerland and Germany where the GHG emissions are reported in CO. 6 This year the Group was able to separate fuel used in hired vehicles from the 2 overall fuel used by the delivery fleet: this would have historically been reported 3 Includes fuel consumed petrol, diesel, red diesel by our supply chain delivery under Scope 1 owned vehicles.
fleet, our company cars and our corporate store delivery fleet.
7 Electricity transmission and distribution refers to the energy loss that occurs 4 GHG emissions based on the impact associated with the supply of water used in between the power station and the point of use.
production apart from in Switzerland where the impact of both the supply and the disposal of water is accounted for as water is used mainly for domestic purposes.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility report continued EMPL EMPLO OYEES YEES WE CONSIDER OUR EMPLOYEES WELLBEING AND HAPPINESS TO BEOF GREAT IMPORTANCE.
Performance and development ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 During the year under review, Dominos launched its global corporate mission, feeding the power of the possible, one pizza at a time.
This o Increased employee health reviews mission has, at its core, the ultimate goal to make Dominos the number byPruHealthof12.9% one pizza company in every neighbourhood in which we operate.
o Introduced free weekly fruit baskets With this philosophy, we embrace our belief in opportunity, hard work, o Launched a new corporate mission feeding inspired solutions, winning together, embracing community and uncommon thepower of possible, one pizza at a time honesty.
This mission and these values will form the basis of our performance development and competency framework.
Together with the happiness o Introduced an online application process at work team, we will embed this mission into our culture in 2015 to ensure forcorporate opportunities that we attract and retain talent.
o Brought our induction process online Attracting talent We aim to hire high calibre applicants through effective recruitment strategies.
To ensure those applying to work with us have a positive In last years Annual Report and Accounts, we set recruitment experience, we have introduced an online application ourselves a number ofgoals and we have taken great process which increases the speed and efficiency with which vacant strides in the year under review towards achieving these.
We have endeavoured to extend this experience by the introduction of a new online induction process that was launched Engagement and wellbeing in 2014.
Each of these tools will be reviewed and adapted in 2015 in Working with our health insurance provider, PruHealth, we have order to reflect and embrace our corporate mission.
promoted the health and wellbeing of our employees by providing access to its online interactive Vitality website.
This tool encourages and rewards healthy behaviour, nutrition and physical activity and provides OBJECTIVES FOR 2015 help in achieving a positive work-life balance.
In 2015, we will be setting o Work with our health insurance provider to up awareness sessions with our employees to promote this further.
promote awareness of our health and wellbeing We strive to provide a happy and safe environment for our employees programme with our employees and on an annual basis our Happiness at Work team undertakes an annual employee survey to understand what improvements we can o Work with the happiness at work team to embed the make.
In addition, they look at work-life balance initiatives and provide corporate mission into our culture opportunities for team colleagues to socialise through team days that o Review and adapt our recruitment, induction, encourage cross-team interaction and organise social events, most recently with the Head Office Christmas party.
performance, development and competency frameworks to reflect the values and behaviours ofthe corporate mission Read more online corporate.
co. uk csr Dominos Pizza Group plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMMUNITY COMMUNITY OUR AIM IS TO BE A SUPPORTIVE PART OF THE COMMUNITY AND HELP FAMILIES THROUGH OUR CHARITABLE GIVING.
ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 o Raised over 500,000 for charity: over 380,000 for Rays of Sunshine: 500,000 over 100,000 for Special Olympics Great Britain: RAISED FOR CHARITY IN 2014 over 15,000 for Northern Ireland Childrens Hospice: and over 25,000 for Pennies.
Our social impact o Boosted fundraising by strong engagement Rays of Sunshine was our main charity in 2014.
This partnership has been embraced by our franchisees, store teams and support office withPennies through our apps employees, who all joined together to raise money.
o Grew average weekly donation total from 6,000 Funds have helped to deliver wishes to seriously ill children such as in2013 to 10,000 in 2014 Lauren.
She was born at just 27 weeks and spent the first year of her o Our customers have raised over 1,000,000 since life in hospital.
Lauren lives with several health complications including introducing Pennies in 2010 a condition called short gut syndrome and her greatest wish was to be amermaid for the day.
A limousine took Lauren and her family to the banks of Loch Lomond Every penny counts where she met Linden, a real life mermaid!
Lauren was also treated to We consider our place to be at the heart of the local community, not only aspecial visit to Loch Lomond Aquarium and a princess tea at Cameron providing quality products but also contributing to the surrounding area.
A crucial element in achieving this has been our charitable funding, After the wish Laurens mum said: I cant put into words what today where we support a number of charities working locally and nationally.
No matter what the future holds for Lauren we will We have a long-running partnership with the charity Pennies.
Its digital always have the memories of seeing Lauren run towards the mermaid charity box has enabled customers using our website and apps to round and the look on her wee face.
Thank you all so much for making up their orders to the nearest pound.
2014 was by far the most Laurens wish come true.
successful year to date and, on behalf of the charities, we would like topass on a big thank you to our customers who have embraced Pennies in their millions.
OBJECTIVES FOR 2015 We are proud to have been the landmark partner for Pennies and o Solidify and evolve the charity programme in line haveseen this trend of online donations grow considerably since it with fresh business priorities began in 2010. o Increase overall giving, aided by the introduction In Great Britain, our current beneficiaries are Rays of Sunshine 75% ofPennies into ROI ofdonations and Special Olympics Great Britain 20% of donations.
InNorthern Ireland, the Northern Ireland Childrens Hospice receives the full 95%.
Read more online Pennies receives 5% of all donations as a contribution to its charitable corporate.
co. uk csr objectives and to drive the movement for the benefit of the charitable sector as a whole.
Following completion of the re-development of our ROI website we plan to implement Pennies in 2015, providing the opportunity to support a local charity.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 33
