50 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Sustainable business review Committed to sustainability Sustainability underpins all that we do and the future of our business encompasses all three aspects of sustainable development environmental, social and economic.
The Board establishes the policies in Our approach to a Materiality respect of sustainable development, sustainablebusiness Given the diversity of our stakeholders such as our business conduct, there are a wide range of topics and We have a major role to play in helping to environmental, and health and safety performance measures on which we protect and enhance the environment.
The Boards policies are could report.
In determining which to This is in line with the wider goals of implemented by dedicated specialists report we consider their materiality in sustainable development.
Our approach who make sure effective processes terms of their relevance to the Company contributes to a sustainable, low carbon and procedures are in place to assure and their importance to stakeholders.
economy and offers opportunities for compliance and to identify and to report economic growth and job creation.
Throughout this Annual report and accounts we aim to report on topics and We operate our business within a As in previous years we have continued performance measures that represent framework of increasingly stringent and to invest, not only to comply with our significant environmental, social challenging legislative and regulatory environmental and health and safety and economic impacts and those requirements.
We are, however, mindful requirements, but, where practicable, that would substantively influence of the still tougher expectations of to go further.
In 2014, we retained our the assessments and decisions of our wider stakeholder group.
For us, a presence in the FTSE4Good Index stakeholders.
Further sustainability sustainable business is about achieving Series, which is designed to measure reporting is available on our website at: a balance between the commercial the performance of companies that www.
com sustainability and regulatory rigours of a competitive meet globally recognised corporate market and operating responsibly.
responsibility standards and facilitate investment in those companies.
Engaging with our stakeholders Drax and Drax and Drax and Drax and Drax and Drax and local shareholders: employees: Parliament: government EuropeanUnion: government:, Reports and, Briefing sessions, Briefing papers departments:, Briefing papers, Liaison meetings announcements, Intranet, Face-to-face, Face-to-face, Face-to-face, Annual consultative meetings, Website meetings meetings committee meeting, Written Group briefs, Road shows, Written and oral, Consultation, Via trade, Exhibitions evidence responses associations, Drax Power Open, Face-to-face, Newsletters Forums, Visit programmes meetings, Visit programmes, Via trade, Visit programmes associations Drax and Drax and media: Drax and Drax and NGOs Drax and Drax and local community:, Press releases government and opinion suppliers and trading, Sponsorship agents formers: customers: counterparties:, Face-to-face meetings regulators:, Face-to-face, Face-to-face, Face-to-face, Fundraising events meetings meetings meetings, Visit programme, Face-to-face, Themed meetings, Briefing papers, Conferences, Industry events campaigns, Correspondence, Visitor programme, Contractor and data briefings, Exhibitions submission, Contractor safety, Newsletters, Via trade conference associations 51 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Environmental performance Our environment and compliance Environmental compliance of our power Towards a low station and associated landfill site is carboneconomy managed through an environmental We have an important role to play in management system.
This system is the transition of the UK towards a low externally certified to the international carbon economy whilst maintaining standard ISO 14001 and is subject to secure and affordable supplies of external audit twice a year.
For us, a sustainable business There were no major breaches of our principally implies delivering on our environmental consents during 2014. strategic carbon abatement initiative to generate increasing amounts of Emissions to air electricity from sustainable biomass in place of coal.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 we set out our carbon reporting During 2014, significant progress was information for direct emissions made on executing our plan to transform Scope 1 from activities such as the business into a predominantly fuel combustion and processing, and biomass-fuelled generator.
indirect emissions Scope 2 being We converted our second generating the equivalent emissions created unit to burn sustainable biomass in place by the generation of the electricity, of coal at the beginning of October.
heat or steam we purchase.
Scope 1 Through increasing the amount of for Drax covers the emissions arising sustainable biomass burnt in place of from burning fossil fuels, namely coal we are significantly reducing our coal, to generate electricity and the carbon footprint.
operation of some of our plant at the The new biomass facilities at at Dr Dra ax x P Power ower Our electricity supply business, Haven power station, for example, our flue gas Station are now supporting t tw wo wo c conver onvert te ed d Power, has been successful in selling the desulphurisation system.
increased output of renewable power Scope 2 emissions arise mainly from generated from our biomass conversion electricity purchased to run operations to our customers.
Renewable power across our various sites.
sales are exempt from the Climate We are also required to disclose Change Levy and even after our price emissions from biologically sequestered premium many customers can make carbon, which include emissions savings whilst enjoying the benefits of released through burning biomass to power from sustainable biomass.
In partnership with Alstom UK Limited Through implementing our strategy and BOC a member of the Linde Group to become a predominantly biomassand in association with National Grid, we fuelled generator we aim to reduce are involved in a Front End Engineering our Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
As a and Design FEED study to develop result there will be a rise in biologically an oxy-fuel carbon capture and storage sequestered carbon emissions.
CCS power plant of up to 448MWe gross at the Drax Power Station site We collate data on our carbon dioxide with supporting transportation and emissions from fuel combustion as storage infrastructure.
The project is part of our measurement and reporting dependent on technical and commercial plan under the EU ETS.
This includes all viability, external funding and Scope 1 and the biologically sequestered appropriate regulatory support.
For Scope2 reporting end we are participating in UK and EU we use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, funded programmes for CCS.
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and the governments published greenhouse gas conversion factors to determine the level of carbon dioxide emissions.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 52 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Sustainable business review continued The majority of our emissions arise Beyond carbon dioxide we manage Disposals to land through the combustion of fossil all our emissions effectively and have We have continued to invest in site fuel for generating electricity.
As this maintained high levels of investment infrastructure to maximise the sale single figure can shadow smaller, but in flue gas desulphurisation and of ash products into the construction still important trends, we have set a combustion control systems to ensure industry and to reduce the disposal materiality threshold of 100 thousand compliance with environmental limits.
of surplus ash to landfill.
In 2014, ash tonnes, equivalent to approximately All emissions in 2014 were within the was sold in conformity with European 0.5% of the reporting years emissions, limits set by the Environment Agency.
construction product standards and in to ensure we strike the right balance Trials were undertaken in 2014 to compliance with the Pulverised Fuel Ash between demonstrating important develop the lead solution to comply Quality Protocol.
trends and limiting data to a with the emission limits which will be in meaningful level.
This has helped us to sell over 85% of the force beyond 2016 under the Industrial 1.1 million tonnes of ash produced in 2014 Carbon dioxide emissions, calculated Emissions Directive.
as replacement for virgin aggregates and under the EU ETS, as a ratio of electricity as a cement replacement product.
Total emissions kt 2014 2013 2012 generated, before deductions for that Sulphur dioxide 23.8 31.7 35.1 used on-site, is a principal performance Any unsold ash is sent to the power indicator for the Group.
This metric Nitrogen oxides 35.5 39.2 39.2 stations ash disposal site, Barlow Mound.
has also been selected for mandatory The completed area of the site has Dust 0.9 0.8 0.8 carbon reporting.
been fully restored for use as farmland and woodland.
Discharges to water Activity 2014 2013 2012 We pay landfill tax on the ash disposed Scope 1 Water is a key resource to Drax Power CO emissions of to the site.
Through the Landfill 2 Station with the great majority of the Communities Fund, we are able to Fossil fuel cooling water abstracted from the River combustion kt 16,476 20,162 22,513 claim a tax credit for our donations Ouse.
Other minor sources include the to recognised Environmental Bodies.
Operations kt 119 157 180 Sherwood Sandstone Aquifer and the We have worked with Groundwork 2 1 1 towns mains.
Procedures are in place to Total Scope 1 kt 16,595 20,320 22,693 North Yorkshire since 2001 on projects manage and monitor the drainage and Scope 2 designed to help mitigate the effects water systems on-site so as to ensure CO2emissions of landfill upon our local community.
alldischarge consent limits are met.
Purchased During 2014, we contributed 23,305 electricity kt 249 293 341 Water abstraction Mt 2014 2013 2012 towards local community-based projects Total Scope 1 River Ouse water 62.5 56.9 56.7 designed to bring about sustainable and2 kt 16,844 20,612 23,038 environmental benefits and contribute Mains water 0.4 0.3 0.2 Biologicallyto the social and economic regeneration sequestered Borehole water 1.7 1.9 1.8 carbon kt of the area.
biomass 2 1 1 We continue to manage waste from combustion 7,150 2,799 1,214 our operations in a responsible manner.
Gross generation In 2014, we diverted 96% of non-ash TWh 28.5 28.0 29.0 waste from landfill.
Scope 1 and 2 3 CO emissions 2 t GWh 591 736 794 Notes: 1 Externally verified by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
2 During 2014 will be subject to the same audit as 2013 figures.
3 Using gross generation excluding  carbon.
Figures may not add up due to rounding.
We have worked with Groundwor wo ork k Nor Nort th h Yorkshire since 2001 on commu un n niit ty y- -b ba as se ed d projects.
Pictured above is the S Se e elb lby y g ga at te ewa way y project celebrating the towns cultur cu ultural al her heriit ta age ge through pieces of artwork.
53 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 We have retained certification of our Our people Health and Safety Management System to the internationally recognised Health and safety Occupational Health and Safety standard, OHSAS 18001, at the Drax Power Station Health and safety is at the heart of our site and for our biomass pellet plant, corporate responsibility.
Protecting our based at Goole in the East Riding of employees, contractors, visitors and Yorkshire.
The standard is approved by neighbours from injury and incident is Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
fundamental to our business philosophy.
In addition to this, Drax Power Station was Driven by our leadership approach once again awarded the Royal Society for and applied through our management the Prevention of Accidents Gold Medal systems, we are committed to Award.
Having achieved the Gold Medal developing and maintaining a positive Award for ten consecutive years, this year health and safety culture in which Drax was awarded the Presidents Award statutory requirements are viewed for outstanding performance in health as a minimum standard and leading We are committed to develo op p pi ing ng apositivehealth and safety c c cu ulture.
Safety leadership and recognition Personal safety statistics 2014 2013 2012 We are constantly striving to improve the Fatality 1 00 critical safety leadership contribution Time losing injuries 3 63 required from first line supervisors.
The expectations of both management Restricted work injuries 1 42 and supervisors continue to be Medical treatment reaffirmed in the Safety Leadership injuries 19 10 3 Charter, which is based on the Health and First aid injuries 215 297 220 Safety Executives approach to achieving 1 RIDDOR reportable 1 11 4 a balance between the systems and Note: behavioural aspects of management, 1 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
treating health and safety management as an integral part of good management Following the weaker performance at generally, rather than as a standour US construction sites last year, we alone system.
are working hard to drive improvements A Health and Safety Advisory to meet the standards set by our UK Committee, which brings together operations.
Despite seeing some a range of employees, including improvement during 2014, we were trade union representatives, safety deeply saddened by the fatal injury representatives, occupational health and sustained by an employee of a submanagement team members, continues contractor working in an area under the to play a vital role in facilitating staff day-to-day supervision of a contractor.
consultation on health and safety issues, and driving standards upwards.
In the UK, where our safety performance is industry-leading, we have continued to Our active involvement with the undertake a significant amount of project programmes of our trade body, Energy work.
This work was completed without UK, and the Coal Generators Forum a worse than first aid injury.
For outages continues to provide new ideas and a alone, we have now completed over stimulus to drive our health and safety 1.3 million hours of work without injury.
Attaining leading performance Health and wellbeing The lost time injury rate and total We are committed to promoting recordable injury rate for 2014 were the health and wellbeing of all our 0.06 and 0.33 respectively compared to staff and ensuring a professional 0.09 and 0.29 in 2013.
This performance response to first aid and emergency was achieved against a backdrop of situations should any occur.
We have significant construction activity: oneoccupational health policies in place third of the 7.2 million hours worked which address industrial disease risks, across the Group was in higher risk and our occupational health team construction activities.
Our safety record undertakes regular programmes to continues to compare very favourably screen colleagues in accordance with with that of our sector peers and risk, exposure and Health and Safety international benchmarks.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 54 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Sustainable business review continued Health and wellbeing-based Employee engagement Each year, Drax Power Limited programmes and initiatives are recruits for the four-year apprentice Some 41% of the Groups workforce is run throughout the Group to raise training programme covering power covered by collective bargaining, and awareness and promote a healthy station operations and engineering for the remainder who are employed lifestyle.
All of the UK workforce maintenance.
In 2014, we took on individual employment contracts is represented in formal joint on eight apprentices across the we have representative employee management-worker health and safety three engineering disciplines of consultation and information committees that help monitor and mechanical, electrical, and control arrangements in place in our UK advise on occupational health and and instrumentation.
businesses, with plans to introduce safety programmes.
similar arrangements in the US when Out of the 15 graduates who had the plants become operational.
In 2015, commenced a two-year programme we will conduct our first Group-wide in September 2013, ten are now in Employees engagement survey, designed and run substantive posts, four have left in conjunction with Towers Watson.
the business, and one is in his final Employment The survey will include measures placement rotation.
The Group employed 1,383 people at the of leadership, communications We have a structured process of year end, an increase of 103 people, or and involvement.
succession planning for senior roles 8%.
The pie charts on page 55 provide We use a variety of communication with a specific career management a breakdown of headcount across channels to ensure that all colleagues discussion integrated within the existing the Groups businesses.
Most of our are kept fully informed of developments appraisal process.
The process identifies employees work full-time and are on in the Groups operations and provided succession potential and gaps, which permanent contracts.
with the opportunity to give feedback.
in turn inform individual development At Drax Power Limited the annual recruitment planning.
Increasingly we staff turnover rate in 2014 was 6.4%, Employee policies and relations look to identify cross-Group moves to which included a significant number accelerate development and improve We have a suite of policies designed to of retirements.
Haven Powers annual the future leadership pipeline.
In 2015, support our people at work, including staff turnover rate was 39%, reflecting we will pilot a UK-wide leadership those to assist, where appropriate, a some structural changes in the business.
development programme with a view variety of work lifestyle preferences, AtDrax Biomass, the annualised toextending this Group-wide in 2016. procedures for raising grievance or turnover rate was 23%, including those safety concerns, and diversity and staff who opted not to relocate to the Reward and recognition inclusion in the workplace.
We make new head office in Atlanta, Georgia.
every effort to provide long-term We benchmark our reward packages at Gender split both across the Group employment security and we maintain every level in the organisation against and the senior management team is high standards in employment practices.
the industry sector and the market as a illustrated in the pie charts on page 55. whole, nationally or locally, as appropriate The Boards policy on diversity is given in Learning and development to the role.
We also participate in the Nominations Committee report on specialist industry meetings to exchange Our personal and career development page77.
information and developments in processes across the Group are designed employment policy.
to equip all our people with the technical skills, management and leadership Through a range of share plans we competences, and personal behaviours encourage all UK employees to build a needed to achieve our Business personal stake in the ownership of the Plan.
All employees receive annual business.
In 2015, we plan to extend the performance and development reviews.
opportunity to our US colleagues.
In 2014, we took on eight apprent re entic ices es a acros cross s three engineering disciplines.
55 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Drax Group total workforce Employment contracts Our stakeholders Part time: Engaging with our 6% stakeholders 1,383 Like most businesses, our stakeholders as at 31 December 2014 are many and diverse, including our shareholders, employees, customers, energy consultants, suppliers, the local community, government, nongovernmental organisations, regulators, opinion formers and the media.
Full time: Communication with all our stakeholders 94% is considered to be an essential part of our business and we aim to be open and transparent in all that we do.
Employment gender Employment status Business conduct Female: Temporary: 23% 1% We are committed to high ethical standards and to conducting our business with honesty, integrity and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Honesty and integrity not only underpin how we do business, but how we expect our customers, suppliers, agents, partners, contractors and consultants to do business, whether in Male: Permanent: the UK, US or beyond.
77% 99% In order to prevent bribery and corruption we take responsibility for maintaining a culture within the Group Senior management Senior management in which bribery is never acceptable.
group gender diversity department distribution In protecting fundamental human rights, Drax does not tolerate the use Haven Group Company Female: Power: Secretariat: of underage workers or any concept of 18% 18% 7% forced labour, at the same time ensuring Finance: our suppliers activities have a minimal Drax 18% Biomass: impact on the environment and local 14% communities.
Any supplier found to be complicit in a breach of such standards, Directors: Strategy: either directly or indirectly, will be barred 9% 9% from further participation in our supply chain activities.
Trading: Production: Male: 7% The Groups Code of Business Ethics 11% 82% Fuel Procurement: establishes the rules and framework 7% on which employees should base their decision making.
Employees are expected to follow not only the letter ofthe Code, but the spirit.
The Groups whistleblowing policy provides a confidential means for our employees to speak up with confidence.
The policy provides guidance on how to make a disclosure of information, in good faith, relating to safety, fraud or other illegal or unethical conduct that they may have witnessed or are concerned about.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 56 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Sustainable business review continued The Group appreciates that public Recognising that prompt payment is, Significantly reduce greenhouse policy on taxation and the external tax critical to the cash flow of our suppliers, gas emissions compared to coalenvironment are constantly evolving and particularly the smaller ones, we have fired generation.
this is reflected in our tax strategy.
signed up to the Prompt Payment, Not result in a net release of carbon Code.
As a signatory to the Code we The Group has a comprehensive from the vegetation and soil of either are committed to paying our suppliers structure of governance and controls in forests or agricultural lands.
according to clearly defined terms place to manage tax risk in accordance and conditions.
Not endanger food supply or with the Groups risk management communities where the use of framework, and this is closely Sustainability is an essential element of biomass is essential for subsistence monitored by the Head of Tax, Audit good procurement practice and takes for example heat, medicines, Committee and internal audit functions.
account of wider social, economic and building materials.
Drax is committed to maintaining a environmental factors in addition to the good relationship with HMRC and conventional criteria of price, quality, Not adversely affect protected other tax authorities, and to be proand service.
By applying these wider or vulnerable biodiversity and, active, collaborative and transparent principles our procurement practices where possible, give preference in compliance and to paying our fair go beyond meeting simple tender to biomass production that share of tax.
The Group interprets and requirements to delivering improved strengthens biodiversity.
applies relevant tax laws in a reasonable value and real cost savings throughout, Deploy good practices to protect and way and in the spirit of that intended the supply chain.
or improve soil, water both ground by tax legislators, consistent with and surface and air quality.
Coal procurement, Contribute to local prosperity in the Recognising public perception of any We buy coal from a range of sources area of supply chain management and links to low tax jurisdictions, the Group with the objectives of managing our biomass production.
commenced a process to cut the legacy commercial exposures, environmental ties it inherited from its previous owners obligations and diversity of supply.
Contribute to the social wellbeing of by removing several Cayman and Jersey In 2014, 38% of the coal we burnt came employees and the local population in incorporated companies from the from UK deep and surface mines with the area of the biomass production.
Whilst all such companies have the remainder coming from major supply We work collaboratively with our always been UK tax resident and paid basins around the world, including the suppliers to ensure compliance with the UK tax on all gains and losses arising, US, Colombia and Russia.
UK governments sustainability criteria we recognise that such links create When buying from overseas we have which have now been incorporated an adverse impression of the Groups continued to require, through our into legislation.
Confidence in the approach to managing its tax affairs.
contracts, minimum standards with sustainability of the biomass is achieved Since then progress has been made suppliers in respect of compliance through a programme of information with four companies being formally with legislation, human rights, labour exchange, documentary evidence, due placed into liquidation and formally relations and health and safety diligence activities and independent dissolved.
Our next goal is to eliminate arrangements.
Our supply chain is fully third party verification.
the remaining Cayman company in the informed of Draxs Code of Business Group and we anticipate taking similar We have also been involved in the Ethics.
In order to support our focus on steps once the tax losses it holds have Sustainable Biomass Partnership responsible procurement, we continue been fully utilised.
SBP which has developed a panour membership of Bettercoal, a notEuropean sustainability framework In 2014, the Group made a significant for-profit organisation that promotes which involves third party certification contribution to local and national continuous improvement in corporate of the management systems of biomass communities in which it operates, with responsibility in the coal supply chain.
producers, at pellet mill level, supplying paid taxes in excess of 200 million, Drax with woody biomass.
The SBP comprising taxes on profit, labour Biomass sustainability and procurement standards are a development of those andpayroll taxes, taxes on burning It is a prerequisite that all our biomass currently employed by Drax and it fossilfuels, and environmental taxes must be purchased from sustainable is envisaged that they will continue butexcluding VAT.
To ensure this we have to evolve as stakeholder views and implemented a sustainability policy practical experience mature.
which embeds comprehensive criteria Supply chain into our procurement activities.
Customer relations Our Biomass Sustainability Management Non-fuel procurement System ensures commitment to Customers and their consultants are We take a balanced approach to our our policy.
at the heart of our retail business.
All of supply chain and we look to use suppliers our customers have named account We are leading the introduction of and working partners from diverse managers who are responsible for the credible sustainability standards backgrounds, in particular, small and service that we deliver.
We continue into biomass procurement activities.
medium-sized suppliers in the local to build on our reputation for providing Our procurement process is designed to community where possible.
good service and this supports an ensure that the production and delivery ongoing good level of renewal at the end of biomass will: of customers supply contracts.
57 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Market conditions remained challenging other potential investors in the Group, Community relations with yet more change in the shape of to assist them in their understanding of We are committed to being a good Electricity Market Reform.
For example, the announcements and also to ensure neighbour to our local community new legislation to ensure the UKs future that the Board is aware of their views and our caring for the community demand for electricity is satisfied and and concerns.
To aid our communication philosophy involves being part of that CO emissions are reduced in line with private investors, the investor 2 local and regional communities.
section of our website has been Our involvement takes the form of developed to be a readily accessible and We held a range of events throughout sponsoring a variety of local charities transparent source of information to the year targeted at customers, and fundraising events, promoting our enhance understanding of the business.
prospective customers and their own campaigns which focus on the consultants to inform and educate three themes of youth sport, education them about these changes, and other Public affairs and the environment, and maintaining industry developments.
These events open communication channels and As in previous years, we maintained share information which is invaluable to good working relationships with the our engagement with public affairs customers and consultants and provide regions key opinion formers.
audiences on issues with implications us with the opportunity to obtain direct for our business.
With energy policy feedback to better meet their needs.
Sponsorship and fundraising still high on the political agenda we Events such as these complement had significant engagement with During 2014, the Group gave financial the high level of service and account Parliamentarians and officials at all support of 228,000 2013: 200,000 management we offer and this is levels on issues including forthcoming in total across a range of charitable and reflected in our positive independent environmental legislation, renewables non-charitable community causes.
policy and market reform issues.
Of that total, charitable donations Our online portal community continues amounted to 154,000 2013: 142,000.
The form of engagement was varied to grow and offers our larger customers and included both face-to-face and 24 7 access to bills and statements as Education in the community written briefings, participation in public well as consumption data and flexible consultations, written evidence to We provide a choice of educational purchasing information.
inquiries, and visits by Parliamentarians experiences hosted by our team of and officials to Drax Power Station.
As in power station guides and, at times, Investor relations the past, trade association membership technical experts.
A state-of-the-art proved useful during the year.
The ability visitor centre is of particular interest We are committed to delivering to meet with and discuss issues of the to students of all ages allowing them shareholder value.
We communicate day with other interested parties has to explore the properties of electricity, our results and prospects to our facilitated presentation of collective discover how a power station works shareholders in an accurate and timely positions on energy policy matters.
and consider the environmental issues manner using a variety of channels.
In addition to the Annual General No political donations were made Meeting, we communicate through in the UK or elsewhere during 2014 Another visitor opportunity exists at our Annual report and accounts, Half 2013: nil, and the Groups contact with our nature reserve that lies at the heart year report and Interim Management those active in the political arena has of our ash disposal site.
In November 2014, the been and will continue to be aimed a sanctuary for over 100 species of Financial Conduct Authority removed solely at the promotion of the Groups wildlife, it is specially designed to help the requirement to publish Interim business interests.
schoolchildren understand more about Management Statements.
However, it is the natural habitat and ecology of The definitions of EU political our intention to provide updates on our the area.
expenditure are broad and there trading performance in addition to the is uncertainty about the extent to Campaigns such as Cricket in the annual and half year reports, generally on which normal business activities, Community, Art in the Community a quarterly basis.
All of these documents which might not be thought to be and the Community Pride Awards are are made available on our website at political expenditure in the usual sense, now established in the annual calendar www.
Significant matters could be considered to be political of community events and continue to relating to trading and the development expenditure within the meaning of the prove popular.
of the business are disseminated to the legislation.
The Company wishes to market by way of announcements via a avoid any inadvertent infringement of Visitors to Drax regulatory information service and those the legislation and each year, through announcements appear as soon as During 2014, we played host to some a resolution at the Annual General practicable on our website.
12,700 visitors through organised tours Meeting, seeks the authority of of the power station, and various activity Announcements are frequently followed shareholders to incur expenditure for the days and charity events.
The tours and up with either conference calls or Company and its subsidiaries for such activities have wide appeal attracting presentations to provide further detail purposes of 100,000. schools and colleges as well as business and greater understanding.
In addition, organisations, local and professional face-to-face meetings are held with our associations and members of major institutional shareholders, and our community.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
