For those sites where we have assessed packaging remains a significant part of their We acknowledge the impact our the activity as material, we have pursued Scope 3 emissions, being emissions related to activities have on the environment external certification to the ISO 14001 their supply chain.
Providing our customers through the use of resources such standard.
For lower impact sites, we adopt with accurate, reliable and trusted data as fibre, energy, water and the a simplified EMS, appropriate to their lower about the contribution our packaging makes level of potential environmental impact.
to their products footprint both positive generation and disposal of waste and negative is an important element in Many sites are pursuing the ISO 50001 for materials.
Our aim is to reduce winning and maintaining the role of a trusted energy management, and our DACH region these impacts relative to our packaging partner.
will become the first fully compliant region production.
We are very pleased by the end of 2014.
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS to have delivered another year Our environmental targets remain With the exception of one spillage of diesel of progress, with relative CO 2 unchanged from the previous year.
fuel at our Clay Cross site on 28 March 2014, emissions down 5.2 per cent in Related to production, we aim to: which resulted in a warning letter from the United Kingdom Environment Agency on 2013 versus the previous year Reduce our CO emissions from fossil fuels 2 28 April 2014, no other major environmental and water discharge down 8.3 per by 20 per cent over the 10 years to 2020: incidents or incidents of significant impact cent.
Through our environmental Reduce our water usage in our paper reportable to local or national authorities, mills by 20 per cent over the 10 years management systems, we identify or incidents potentially resulting in legal to 2020: and prosecution have been reported for the and reduce the risks and impacts period of this report.
Reduce the amount of production rejects of environmental incidents, and sent to landfill by 20 per cent over the CERTUS we have continued to ensure that 10 years to 2020.
During the year, DS Smith made a all employees have the appropriate For each of these targets, we have substantial investment in new software to established an action plan to deliver the knowledge and competencies to collate, aggregate and report on a range of stated objectives: fulfil their responsibilities.
sustainability key performance indicators, Our CO emissions will be reduced by 2 including the environmental indicators we a combination of increased energy have previously reported on.
efficiency and a switch from oil to gas or, ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT This project has resulted in CERTUS, a where appropriate, to renewable fuels: AND REGULATION Group-wide reporting system which will Our water use targets will be met by The Groups management of environmental enable us to monitor and manage our moving towards more closed water matters is through the Environmental progress more accurately and more quickly systems at some of our paper mills: and Technical Working Group, which reports to than before.
It will also allow us to refine the Group Sustainability Committee on A greater proportion of production and expand our monitoring and analysis issues pertaining to carbon emissions, rejects will be retrieved as materials and to develop greater insight into energy usage, water consumption and and energy recovery, rather than be potential efficiency improvements.
quality, waste and product responsibility.
This initiative is not simply about internal We also have a policy that each of our performance measurement.
It is a valuesites implements an environmental added service for our customers, for whom management system EMS which is appropriate to its activity.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 29 In Vrnamo, Sweden, the project to connect More efficient transport solutions, ACTIVITIES IN 2013 to the local district heating system for site driven through supplier standards During 2013 several projects have been heating is now complete.
This has reduced to ensure the only the most efficient initiated to explore the benefits of the sites dependency on liquid petroleum vehicles are used and that they meet converting sites to LED lighting.
A number gas for ambient heat and has substituted the strictest environmental, safety of potential sites were identified and trial fossil fuel for biomass which has also had and social standards.
A pilot a positive effect in reducing CO emissions 2 site for a high bay lighting installation was ENVIRONMENTAL at that site.
completed at our packaging factory in PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Fordham, United Kingdom which was In our DACH and Northern Europe region, We collect environmental data on a monthly successful, and a framework agreement has a project to implement ISO 50001Energy basis, and report this data for the previous been established with a supplier for high Management commenced in November 2013, calendar year in order to align with the bay lamps.
Projects at five sites are which delivers financial benefits through tax generally accepted practice of industry presently in progress in the UK and the efficiencies, as well as better visibility and peers and external stakeholders.
This Northern Europe packaging region.
aids sector and industry benchmarking.
In Kemsley, United Kingdom, the mill has Emissions figures given in this report are PLANS FOR 2014 increased the fibre yield of its recycled therefore all on a calendar year basis.
There continues to be substantial fibre plant from 59 per cent to 64 per cent, knowledge transfer from the integration The 2012 calendar year environmental making much better use of raw materials, of DS Smith and SCA Packaging.
The data reported last year has been used as and increasing the use of mixed waste Group-wide Continuous Excellence the baseline for our environmental recovered paper from 7 per cent to 23 programme, which seeks to transfer best performance targets on CO emissions, per cent, reducing the fibre material cost 2 practice throughout all of our operations, water management and waste sent to and enabling greater use of post-consumer presently has over 400 projects that are landfill in relation to production levels.
at various stages of implementation.
Our Paper and Packaging businesses In Wansbrough, United Kingdom, the In 2014 we are concentrating our efforts account for more than 95 per cent of the installation of high efficiency boilers is on these areas to ensure that we continue environmental impact relating to the underway.
This project is forecast to deliver to deliver on our environmental, social, and three target areas: CO emissions, water 2 efficiency improvements of 20 per cent per commercial ambitions: management and waste to landfill.
annum, and in Gent, Belgium, the project to replace the heavy fuel oil-fired boiler with Further investment into energyThe environmental performance data table a more efficient gas-fired boiler has been efficient capital equipment in our overleaf displays the data for calendar year completed, and will deliver cost and carbon manufacturing facilities.
2013 together with the data previously benefits from April 2014. reported for calendar year 2012.
Boilers: Identifying plants using oil and planning conversion to cleaner fuels.
In Mariestad, Sweden, we have had a For 2013 and going forward, we will report successful project to optimise the Heat Recovery: Identifying sites with our emissions of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent enclosures and heat exchangers in the potential to reduce heating demand CO e, as required by legislation.
CO e 2 2 wet-end of the corrugator, which not through improved heat recovery.
includes CO and also the equivalent impact 2 only reduced the steam consumption by from other gases, such as methane.
13 per cent but also improved the working environment in the production area.
DS SMITH CHARITABLE FOUNDATION DS Smith is proud to have established the DS Smith Charitable Foundation.
The purpose of the Charitable Foundation is to support with donations, charities with values aligned to those of DS Smith, in particular, charities that support the environment.
As a large employer with a responsibility to the communities in which we operate, the Charitable Foundation also supports charities which help train young people and assist them into work.
More information on the work of the Charitable Foundation, including details of charities that have been supported and also how to apply for funding, can be found at www.
com company sustainability  charitable-trust dssmith.
com 30 Strategic Report Environment continued ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Verification Statement Data for period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd Bureau Veritas UK has been Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions commissioned by DS Smith Plc Unit of measure 2013 2012 DS Smith for the sixth year Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation to provide an independent of facilities Tonnes of Co e 1,215,458 n a 2 opinion on the Environmental Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling Performance Indicators presented on this purchased for own use Tonnes of Co e 576,048 n a page of its 2014 Annual Report.
Having 2 completed a process of assessment Total Scope 1 2 Tonnes of Co e 1,791,506 n a 2 including site visits, document review and CO e impact of electricity, heat and steam 2 interrogation of associated management exported to third parties Tonnes of Co e 519,457 n a 2 and reporting systems, it is our opinion that Total 1,272,049 n a the data presented here is a fair and accurate Total CO e per tonne production kg tonne 297 n a representation of DS Smiths performance.
2 DS Smith should be commended on its This table is presented in the format specified by the Greenhouse Gas Emissions approach to consistent data collection Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Reporting of our emissions in Tonnes of Carbon and the work which has been undertaken this year to ensure that there is a good Dioxide Equivalent CO e has been implemented retrospectively.
Data on the additional 2 understanding of associated processes greenhouse gases defined in section 92 of the Climate Change Act 2008 as methane CH, 4 across the company both at a group and a nitrous oxide N 0, hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, perfluorocarbons PFCs and sulphur 2 site level.
It remains clear that DS Smith is hexafluoride SF, was not available for 2012.
6 constantly looking to improve its internal processes and has proactively engaged in Other environmental indicators the verification process.
Unit of measure 2013 2012 Change Total Production ktonnes 6,027 5,322 A full verification statement including Electricity, heat and steam the methodology, basis for the opinion, additional recommendations, limitations exported to third parties MWh 1,995,495 n a and a statement of Bureau Veritass Total Emissions of CO ktonnes 2,144 1,514 2 independence can be found on the DS CO impact of electricity, heat, 2 Smith Plc website at: www.
com and steam exported to third parties ktonnes 519 n a company sustainability environment performance Total CO emissions ktonnes 1,625 1,514 2 3 Total Effluent Water discharged mm 16.6 16.0 Total Waste to landfill tonnes 63,677 67,889 Total Emissions of CO per tonne of 2 production ktonnes 269.6 284.4 -5.2% Total Effluent Water discharged per 3 tonne of production m tonne 2.75 3.00 -8.3% Total Waste to landfill per tonne of production kg tonne 10.6 12.8 -17.2% Methodology 1 DS Smith collects and reports environmental data in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, to the extent that this is practicable.
2 The figures reported above include data from all the Groups wholly-owned or majority-owned manufacturing operations.
Of the 95 sites that consume fossil fuels paper mills, corrugating plants and foam plants actual consumption figures were available for all sites.
The total figures also include data from a further 64 small production facilities that use only grid electricity.
3 The CO and CO e emissions were calculated using the UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs 2013 emissions factors.
The factors used for converting grid electricity 2 2 reflect the mix of fuels used for electricity generation in each country.
4 Scope 3 emissions, from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the supply chains for the Groups products and services, are not included.
5 The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations: they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for recycling.
6 In order to aid a year-on-year comparison, the data is displayed in the format we used for our reporting last year.
This showed our total emissions of CO only.
In future reporting, 2 we will align ourselves to using Tonnes CO e. 2 7 Production is defined as sum of the production output in tonnes from each site whose energy, waste and water consumption is reported above.
8 The combined heat and power plant that supplies Witzenhausen with steam is fired predominantly by biogenic fuels.
The emission factor for this site has been estimated as 92.019 kg MWh of CO e. 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
