Strategic Report 25 Sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability.
Our core business is the design and OUR BUSINESS MODEL The DS Smith business model is manufacture of recycled packaging for based on providing inherently consumer goods.
We recognise that our sustainable packaging solutions factories and production facilities have a for our customers.
Our corporate direct environmental impact through the RECYCLING running of our operations, but also that vision, to become the leader in our business has an indirect impact recycled packaging for consumer upstream through our sourcing activities, goods, has at its heart a social and downstream in the way our customers CUSTOMER use and dispose of our products.
However, purpose which emphasises the SUPPLY CYCLE corrugated packaging has many beneficial PAPER role that recycling has to play PACKAGING environmental characteristics.
All the paper within a sustainable supply cycle, we make is made from recycled materials and the leadership position that all our packaging products are fully recyclable.
DS Smith has the opportunity to We work closely with our customers, not take, and the development of a only to reduce the carbon footprint of the packaging they use, but also to help them comprehensive understanding reduce the carbon footprint of their of the issues that matter to products by ensuring the right packaging PLASTICS consumers and the communities solution is provided.
We look at the cost and carbon impact of the whole supply cycle, taking into In our recycling operations we are the only consideration the demands of the packing integrated provider to pledge zero waste.
line, loading, transport, distribution, We stay true to the waste hierarchy with warehousing and the last five yards as the aim of making 100 per cent of resources goods arrive in the back of store, as well into something useful once more.
as the consumer experience in store.
We do not invest in landfill only in innovative We optimise the materials used in each business processes that promote the Power packaging solution in order to achieve the of Less, a mantra that helps our customers best outcomes at each stage in the supply achieve more with minimal impact to the cycle, thus minimising the overall environment, while realising maximum environmental impacts.
DS Smith has been developing lightweight Our plastics products are reusable and packaging solutions for a long time.
For recyclable and only require small amounts of example, we developed R-Flute, a type energy and raw material to be manufactured.
of corrugated board which significantly Our portfolio includes lightweight and improved the carbon footprint of corrugated space-efficient products and solutions such packaging and it continues to be an as bag-in-box packaging, reusable containers industry-leading product.
We continue to and plastics components with green innovate in this area and are constantly credentials that include improved fuel improving the performance of our efficiency and reduced carbon emissions.
packaging, delivering more with less.
com 26 Strategic Report Sustainability continued During 2013, DS Smith published a series of FTSE Group confirms that DS Smith has been independently Group-wide policies to support its objectives assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has in the sphere of corporate responsibility: satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index The Operating Framework company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series Our Operating Framework sets out the that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that way DS Smith is governed and managed.
meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
It describes the Groups values, strategy, Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met and structure and explains the role of the stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, corporate functions and the associated and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of company policies and levels of authority responsible business practice.
that apply across the Group.
It is a valuable resource for managers and is compulsory reading for new joiners.
OUR PRINCIPLES The Code of Conduct At DS Smith we are committed to conducting The Group Chief Executive is the Executive Through our Code of Conduct we set our business in a responsible manner.
That is Director responsible for sustainability issues the standards for the ethical behaviours the foundation of a sustainable company, and he regularly reviews potential risks.
we expect from all our managers and and it is an essential component of our Through the Group Management Team, he employees.
This document was translated licence to operate.
communicates and cascades the Groups into 22 languages and distributed to all sites sustainability policies, procedures and We believe that delighting our customers across the Group.
It is also available via the objectives to the heads of each business and ensuring our employees operate in Group intranet, and a summary has been unit, and he monitors compliance through a safe and productive workplace is the published on the Groups website.
only sustainable route to the long-term View a summary of our Code of Conduct creation of value for our shareholders.
The Group Sustainability Committee at www.
com people culture oversees the management processes, code-of-conduct DS Smith subscribes to a number of targets and strategies designed to manage international standards and guidelines In addition, the Group has a Workplace environmental and social risks and relevant to corporate responsibility Malpractice Policy, Speak Up!, under opportunities, and to ensure compliance and business conduct, including: which employees may report in confidence with the Groups environmental and social any perceived wrongdoing within the United Nations Global Compact: responsibilities and commitments.
Group on matters relating to safety, the United Nations Declaration of Human Supporting the Group Sustainability environment, unethical business conduct Rights and the Convention on the Rights Committee are two working groups or breaches of Group policies, the law or of the Child: with representation from across the other regulations.
This policy is reinforced International Labour Organisation ILO business.
These working groups cover by a confidential Employee Concern Helpline eight Fundamental Conventions: and environmental technical issues and and e-mail facility.
Any concerns reported social responsibility issues.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation are appropriately investigated.
and Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
See page 38 for more about Governance.
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE OUR POLICIES The Board considers risks arising from Following a review during 2013, the Board sustainability issues as part of its regular directed that our approach to sustainability review of the key risks to the Groups should be focused on the following areas: operations.
It ensures that the Group our impact on the natural environment: has in place effective policies and our economic relationships: and procedures for managing any significant sustainability risks and it receives regular social responsibility as expressed reports on performance.
through our relationships with people and communities.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 27 THE MATERIAL ISSUES Sustainability is a large and varied field with many agendas competing for primacy.
We conducted a formal materiality analysis during 2013, facilitated with external expertise.
From this the Group Sustainability Committee decided that our approach to sustainability should be focused on the following areas of greatest impact, risk or opportunity: See page 34 for more about Risk.
Issue Description More information Our customers will demand greater integration of sustainability indicators with their own Read more in our 2014 Packaging Sustainability Review.
agendas and reporting requirements, and specifically they will require evidence and reputation examples of the positive role packaging can play in reducing waste and damage in order to inform and influence public perceptions on a wide variety of issues, from litter to landfill.
Read more in our Environment Carbon The direct correlation between energy usage, cost and carbon emissions continues to section on page 28. drive a focus on energy efficiency, which also delivers improvements in the carbon footprint footprint of our products.
Investment and innovation by manufacturers of capital equipment, plant and machinery continues to provide opportunities to improve.
Nevertheless, other factors such as greater automation in our factories, light-weighting and our performance packaging programme, and a more specialised product mix in our paper mills will all increase energy inputs per tonne of product, resulting in a potential worsening of the intensity ratios that are commonly used in our sector.
In keeping with our values and our commitment to transparency, we will continue to submit our performance in this area to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Read more in our 2014 Raw materials We will need to invest in and manage an enhanced level of engagement with our own Sustainability Review.
suppliers in order to better understand and explain the impacts of our upstream sourcing activities.
This area is assessed as likely to come under increasing scrutiny by legislators and campaigners.
Responsible fibre sourcing is already well established and chain of custody certification is mandated by EU legislation.
Our employees have a twofold role to play.
Through their daily actions and behaviours, Read more in our Employees Employees section on page 31. they are the custodians of our ability to deliver on our promise to be the most sustainable, innovative, and commercially successful recycled packaging company in each of our markets.
But they are also an ambassador for our values, and their interaction with customers, suppliers, and the wider community is just as significant as their work in our factories and mills.
In order to fulfil their potential, we must continue to invest in training and engagement.
The ability to deliver a zero-waste solution to major retailers is a significant competitive Read more in our Environment Recycling section on page 28. advantage.
Our closed loop recycling model is at the core of this strategy.
But, having and waste grown substantially as a business, our manufacturing operations in absolute terms generate substantial volumes of waste.
We must ensure that each of our factories demonstrably and transparently delivers best-in-class management and handling of waste and that we continue to reduce the materials we cannot recycle ourselves to the absolute minimum level achievable.
Find out more about sustainability at DS Smith and download our 2014 Sustainability Review at www.
com Sustainability R Su ustainability Re evie view w 201 2014 4 THE BALA AN NCE CE O O OF OF F S SU SU UST ST STA A AI IN IN NA NAB AB A A ABI BI IL L L L LIT IT ITY Y Y
