Strategic Report 31 Employees Our people.
the understanding that through change we courses for managers and employees Our people are dedicated, hardwill achieve growth.
Our focus on excellence on giving and receiving appraisals.
working and proud to play their in service, quality and innovation speaks Parallel to the performance review process part in the DS Smith story.
directly to the activities of our people and a common talent review process has been they see that they are central to the success Encouraged rather than intimidated by the launched.
This not only provokes valuable of the Group.
Equally, they know that by ambitions of the Group they are keen to conversations with senior managers around delivering in these key performance areas, share innovative ideas and develop better succession plans and the development of a there will be more investment in the ways of working.
The drive for change talent pool, but also has its foundations in business and in their own development.
comes from all levels of the business with our leadership competencies.
The focus on Through our employee engagement and competencies creates greater consistency culture change programme OWN IT!, which and fairness providing equal opportunities OUR VALUES promotes the use of storytelling to drive for development and progression.
We believe that a clear set of values change, the ambitious vision and goals of Reward and behaviours, owned and lived by DS Smith have been given a human face DS Smith is committed to finding the all our employees, can make a as real-life stories have been shared of best way possible to share the benefits of fundamental difference to how our colleagues successes and challenges.
company performance with every employee.
they feel and go about their work.
EMPLOYEE SURVEY DS Smith is founded on the following values: As a substantial step towards bringing closer At a Group level, we also place great links between performance and reward importance on listening to our employees Be caring and delivering against this commitment, collective voice and giving our colleagues we launched an international Sharesave plan We take pride in what we do and care the opportunity to raise the issues that in January 2014.
Through this we are also about our customers, our people and matter to them.
Our main vehicle for this reinforcing the clear message of OWN IT!, in the world around us.
communication is our Employee Survey.
building genuine ownership in the business as well as ownership and accountability over Following the 2012 Employee Survey, as a Be challenging individual roles and responsibilities.
Group we highlighted three areas of focus for our actions in addition to local actions Employee engagement and We are not afraid to challenge each based on site regional results : culture change other and ourselves constructively, DS Smith promised to continue the OWN IT!
to find a better way forward.
Performance review programme that has been providing tools We are committed to ensuring that all and occasions for employees at all levels to Be trusted employees receive open and honest engage in the strategy of the business.
performance feedback and, coming from We can always be trusted to deliver that, clear development plans.
To support From this renewed commitment, we on our promises.
this, a simpler appraisal form that promotes have seen fresh energy injected into the quality conversations, not tick boxes has long-term efforts to develop a common Be responsive been implemented.
It also drives review of corporate culture based on our values.
behaviours in line with our values as well as This has meant teams spending more time We seek new ideas and understanding delivery against objectives.
Steps have been exploring what the words mean in action and are quick to react to opportunities.
taken to improve the quality of performance and reflecting on individual performance conversations by developing in-house and behaviours in relation to the values.
Be tenacious We get things done.
com 32 Strategic Report Employees continued DIVERSITY OWN IT!
DS Smith is an equal opportunities OWN IT!
as a change programme centres employer.
DS Smith is firmly committed on the call to action for all our colleagues to both the principle and realisation of to own their part in the delivery of our equal opportunities and its policies are strategy and our values.
designed to provide such equality as set We have some fantastic examples of out in our Code of Conduct.
employees who have followed that As DS Smith now operates in 25 different call to action: countries, we recognise and value the importance of a diverse workforce.
Group At one location an employee put in leadership, divisional and regional operation, place a new suggestion scheme with and local practices, provide a multi-cultural clear communication and feedback platform from which the Group can leverage processes and rewards for top A key element of the programme has also talent in its broadest sense and develop implemented ideas.
been empowering all employees to start multi-skilled teams who will look at business At another, we have seen an bottom-up improvement projects aligned challenges from various perspectives.
employee-led initiative to create to the corporate strategic priorities.
This internet cafe style access to our Recruiting for talent within an equal has been facilitated by the identification new intranet in a staff canteen.
opportunity environment, we also take and development of key influencers from At one of our mills an OWN IT!
good care of the complementarity of outside the management structures.
With profiles that will form our teams, and whilst See OWN IT!
their own improvement budget, they personalities are all individual, we strive The OWN IT!
programme has also been collect and decide upon ideas to follow to ensure that peoples own values will be built on the principle of sharing stories up on and recognise the individual consistent with the DS Smith values.
to inspire change or share experiences who suggested it with a name plaque.
Be Caring and Be Challenging are the and knowledge.
To help promote the Other employees have been involved two values that will best represent how sharing of best practice and recognition in the development of in-house we value diversity at DS Smith.
As we care of success, we have launched a new learning and development offerings for our people, we expect people to care Group-wide intranet, Plexus.
for colleagues and managers, in line for their colleagues and respect their with our values and leadership The next employee survey is being conducted differences of opinions and styles.
in October 2014 and will measure our constructive challenge spirit that we foster progress against these commitments as well within the Group encourages people to Find out more about our employee as providing invaluable updates on levels of culture at www.
com listen and consider diverse opinions when people culture employee engagement and opinions on a dealing with every business challenge.
GENDER DIVERSITY Senior Management Group Board Male: 6 Male: 113 Male: 15,590 Female: 2 Female: 13 Female: 3,904 10% 20% 25% 75% 80% 90% Employee data collected at the financial year end date of 30 April 2014.
At that date there was one woman on the Board.
On 23 June 2014, Louise Smalley was appointed to the Board, bringing the total to two.
Our Senior Management population consists of the management teams that report into the Group Management Team.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 33 From a gender perspective, female In addition to the significant decrease in The new system will ensure better quality representation at Board level is 25 per cent, numbers of LTAs, and the consequential reporting and analysis of our incidents at senior management level is 10 per cent impact on AFR, we have seen an 18 per so that we can prioritise our resources.
and across the employee base as a whole cent reduction in our severity rate this The SLG meets monthly to review major is 20 per cent.
is expressed as working hours lost as a LTAs high potential severity incidents, thus percentage of the total hours worked further improving the level of challenge on HEALTH AND SAFETY from 0.17 to 0.14. accident investigation.
The safety of our people remains a Any accident which causes injury and cornerstone of our business.
We seek to The SLG has also set up working groups on suffering is one accident too many.
We improve our performance continuously specific topics such as machine guarding are committed to achieving a zero accident as a Group and strive to ensure that our and workplace transport and is working to culture and recognise that much more colleagues and the public are kept safe.
identity and share best practice across the work needs to be done on improving our Group.
It has also revised the safety incident Health and Safety sites, reducing risks and raising our safety definitions and is in the process of revising Key Performance Indicators awareness.
However, it is important to note the Groups safety policies.
that 70 per cent of our sites have reported 2013 14 2012 13 Variance zero LTAs in the past year versus 54 per Going forward the business will continue Total LTAs 172 220 -22% cent 2012 13 and it is our challenge to to set stretching safety key performance AFR 4.80 6.16 -22% extend this to the full Group.
indicators to act as milestones to a zero accident culture.
These are tracked and 2012 13 figures revised to a full year of SCA Packaging.
This year the Group created the post of reported monthly to the Group Management Definition: Group Health and Safety Director.
Part of Lost Time Accident LTA : number of LTAs resulting in lost Team, with quarterly reports to the Board as his role has been to work with the newly time of one shift or more.
The established Divisional Accident Frequency Rate AFR : number of LTAs per million established Safety Leadership Group SLG hours worked.
safety audits will continue with support to help coordinate Group policy and best from external consultants as well as internal This is the first full year of the newly practice from the various parts of the specialists.
These audits assist the sites in enlarged Group and a key element of the organisation and further raise the visibility reducing risks and establish greater integration of the business units has been of safety within the organisation.
The first consistency within the Group.
to maintain our focus on improving our key element has been to establish a uniform safety performance.
The decrease shown incident management system which will be in in the table above is a significant place from the start of the new financial year.
LTA figures EXAMPLES OF HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS 220 Throughout the Group substantial progress has been made on safety and that is translating into reduced frequency and severity rates.
Accident frequency rates in 176 172 Benelux have dropped by one-third and by over 25 per cent each in DACH, France Spain, 127 Italy and Plastics.
The single most impressive improvement has been in Northern Europe 126 where the rate has fallen by over 60 per cent.
106 94 Site specific examples of how we are continuing to raise safety standards include: 66 Nantes paper mill Nantes paper mill has made excellent progress this year, reducing their LTAs and severity 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 14 rates significantly.
This result can be attributed to the huge amount of work and effort Former SCA Packaging Legacy DS Smith alone from the team to improve housekeeping and safety standards at the mill.
The number of LTAs has reduced from six to one.
This mirrors our previous progress following the acquisition of new businesses.
The Featherstone graph above shows that, although the Featherstone is one of our largest, most complex packaging sites, employing 230 annual number of LTAs increased with people and operating 24 7 365 days per year.
It has achieved the milestone of three the enlarged business, the downward years without any LTAs, that is over 1.5 million hours worked LTA-free, an outstanding momentum has been maintained.
achievement by everyone on site.
