Key Link to strategy CORPORATE SOCIAL 1 Develop our specialist proposition 2 Expand the store portfolio RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3 Grow multi-channel 4 Develop and exploit our infrastructure How do we manage CSR?
Although we report on CSR separately, we do not treat it as a separate function: it is embedded in senior management role accountabilities.
The Board has overall responsibility for setting policies and monitoring performance.
The table below sets out how we manage CSR matters: Board Overall responsibility for CSR Approve policies Executive members have line responsibility for managing specific CSR topics Monitor progress through KPIs and Board reports Annual presentations on health and safety and human rights Executive Board Members have line responsibility for KPIs monitored by the Executive Board managing specific CSR topics Dialogue and Communication Customers: through customer care, weekly on-line surveys and social media Colleagues: in-house magazine and through Colleagues Council Suppliers: annual conference and meetings throughout the year Others: social media, corporate website 20 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials CUSTOMERS Why it matters Our core strength as a business is the delivery of market leading choice Executive responsibility: of products and services, at great value for money, backed up by friendly Chief Executive and knowledgeable customer service.
We can only deliver this by having 1 2 3 customer interests at the heart of our business.
Other achievements We aim to provide to our customers: Rebrand of the business as Dunelm with the strapline Great products and services, that are safe, legally Theres no place like Dunelm, supported by a TV compliant and competitively priced.
campaign to build greater customer awareness.
Excellent service in store, on-line and through customer care.
We have significantly increased the range of furniture Stores that are safe and accessible.
available to order in-store or from our catalogue and Fair and truthful marketing.
website, including a custom made upholstery offer.
We have improved the ordering system for our made to What have we achieved this year?
measure curtain and blinds service to improve accuracy, quality and speed.
2013 14 objectives Achievements Improved Autumn Winter and Spring Summer catalogues, Enhance customer service All store colleagues have plus a spring mini-catalogue distributed.
in-store through our targeted completed two phases of the service training programme programme.
As a result our Awards: Customer First.
customer satisfaction measure UKs second favourite homewares retailer according to the has improved across the 2014 Verdict survey third in previous year.
Readers of House Beautiful magazine voted us the Store support colleagues have Home Retailer of the year Gold Award for 2013 third year also participated in training running.
For the first time we also received the Best Ondesigned to create a customer line Retailer award.
Caf Pausa won the Sammies sandwich bar retailer of Extend on-line offer to include Following the opening of the year award, beating Costa, Pret A Manger and Greggs a wider range of products for our new fulfilment facility in amongst others.
October 2013 we have been able to increase the number of 2014 15 objectives: products available, including Reinforce our Customer First ethos through further a larger number of products colleague training.
Major upgrade of our website and a new mobile app will Improve home delivery times From October 2013 we have enhance the on-line customer experience.
and speed of availability of been able to offer next day Further extend the range of products available for order reserve and collect orders.
delivery on 15,000 products from our website and catalogue.
previously 3,000, and to increase the speed of our standard home delivery service from 5 working days to 3.
Reserve and collect service is now available same day if ordered before 12 noon: previously the service was next day.
Roll out Dunelm at Home This service was available in home consultation service 45 stores from October 2013, for made to measure curtains and a further 30 stores from and blinds.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Key Link to strategy CORPORATE SOCIAL 1 Develop our specialist proposition 2 Expand the store portfolio RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued 3 Grow multi-channel 4 Develop and exploit our infrastructure Why it matters COLLEAGUES We employ over 8,000 colleagues across our stores and in our distribution, manufacturing and store support centre locations.
Executive responsibility: Without their hard work and dedication we would be unable Finance Director to deliver great products and services to our customers and 1 2 3 4 successfully grow and develop our business.
2013 14 objectives Achievements We are a growing business and we need to be able to attract Colleagues Council will This was re-launched across and retain colleagues to help us deliver our development be re-launched.
the business with a set plans.
We offer a competitive remuneration and benefits timetable for local and area package at all levels, including our annual sharesave scheme meetings.
Feedback and which is open to all colleagues.
suggestions are put forward every six months to our We are an equal opportunities employer: our policy is to recruit, Executive Board.
develop, promote and retain skilled and motivated people Continue to improve Significant training programme regardless of disability, race, religion or belief, sex, sexual our colleague training launched for all store based orientation, gender reassignment, marital status or age.
opportunities, through colleagues and non-store structured programmes and colleagues under the At the end of the financial period the breakdown of male and additional modules on the Customer First initiative during female colleagues was as follows: Dunelm Academy.
2013 with further modules Male Female % Female continuing to roll out.
We continue to invest in training Group Board 6 2 25% for all colleagues including Senior Managers 15 6 29% product knowledge, master All colleagues 2,625 5,974 69% classes and management development programmes.
We maintain regular communication with all colleagues, through Work with partners to We have continued to provide store manager huddles, our Dunelm Gazette magazine which provide opportunities to work experience opportunities is published at least quarterly, and via the computer-based the unemployed.
for the long-term unemployed Dunelm Academy, to which all colleagues have access.
this year and maintained We operate a Colleagues Council, through which colleague strong relationships with Job representatives can raise and discuss ideas and concerns with Centre Plus.
We continue to senior management.
These are fed back to the Executive Board offer enhanced support to job for consideration and action.
In addition we run a colleague applicants who have been engagement survey at least annually, the output of which also is unemployed for six months fed back to the Executive Board and actions agreed.
We offer a range of training and development opportunities to Other achievements colleagues at all levels of the business.
These include: We continue to work closely with local communities both Nationally accredited modern apprenticeships and NVQs.
through and alongside our work with our national charities Our graduate programme, which leads to an Institute of and have introduced paid time off for colleagues to Leadership and Management qualification.
Support for colleagues studying for professional From April 2014, all colleagues now receive a paid qualifications, such as in finance, HR and IT.
Birthday day off as part of our engagement strategy.
A range of workshops in key management skills, such as Successfully opened 12 new stores with fully recruited leadership and communications.
teams during the year to June 2014.
Interactive computer based product knowledge and other training.
2014 15 objectives What have we achieved this year?
New careers website to be launched in the summer.
2013 14 objectives Achievements Further graduate intake planned for September 2014.
Continue to develop and rollout the Customer First Continue to add talent to We recruited 23 graduates in Programme to all areas of the business.
the organisation through our September 2013.
Continue to develop and deliver learning and development graduate programme.
initiatives to meet the needs of the business.
Conduct an employee Survey completed in Respond to issues and opportunities identified from the engagement survey across September 2013 and further engagement survey taking place in September 2014 and the Group.
surveys planned for September again in March 2015.
Continue to recruit and train colleagues in line with our new store opening programme.
22 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Why it matters HEALTH AND We have a duty of care to ensure the health and safety of customers, colleagues, contractors and all other visitors to our premises.
A poor SAFETY record can lead to prosecution, damages claims and loss of reputation.
Executive responsibility: Chief Operating Officer 1 2 3 4 What do we do?
What have we achieved this year?
The Board is ultimately responsible for the creation and implementation of our health and safety policy and 2013 2014 Objectives Achievements procedures, which include an effective system of upward Review and update Health and The training DVDs have been and downward communication, appropriate standards Safety training DVDs.
reviewed to ensure up to for monitoring performance and for ensuring that sufficient date information regarding resources are available to support this activity.
new products and safe merchandising throughout Health and safety is a standard agenda item at every the store.
Board meeting and the Board receives a monthly report and Develop an online accident Our on line reporting system a formal annual presentation from the Groups Health and reporting system.
has been developed in house, Safety manager.
amongst the benefits of the new system are: reduction of Although senior management take responsibility for the overall administration costs, easier implementation, maintenance and development of our safety to complete and analyse, management system, every colleague has a responsibility for quicker customer contact and the safety of themselves and other colleagues, customers improved service.
Development of new We have streamlined our claim handling procedures complaint claim handling In our stores, each store manager is responsible for ensuring in line with requirements of procedures to ensure a quick the implementation of health and safety policy and procedures legal reforms.
and effective resolution to in his or her store, supported by the area manager and the customer issues.
Group Health and Safety Manager.
Risk assessments are in place and updated as required.
Other achievements We have an in-house health and safety audit, which monitors During July 2013, our insurers completed an external audit compliance to policy and procedures and is reviewed annually for claims defensibility and rated our health and safety to ensure that it meets best practice industry standards and management system highly.
to address any specific risks identified.
Our stores complete an online self-audit monthly and area managers audit each We completed training of all store management teams in of their stores at least once a year.
This is backed up by Safe Merchandising which focuses on customer accident our in-house operational audit team and followed up by the prevention, and provided them with training materials to Health and Safety Manager.
Regular review meetings are held support them when cascading on to their store colleagues.
between the Groups Health and Safety Manager and senior management from key operational functions.
By targeting high standards of compliance to Company procedures and using positive reinforcement of success We have a pro-active approach to safety, and colleagues are achieved, we have been able to improve average compliance encouraged to report all potential hazards and risks.
We have audit scores to 93% for 2013 14 89% for 2012 13. an on-going programme of education and training, including DVDs and interactive computer based learning, and ensure We had an accident rate of 3.5 accidents for every 100,000 colleague Involvement through the Colleague Council.
customer visits in 2013 14 down from 3.9 in 2012 13, which reflects our focus on ensuring that our accident analysis feeds into our agreed objectives and actions for the year.
2014 15 objectives Further improve support to stores.
Monitor standards and potential issues in stores more closely.
Provide additional support to non-store sites through inspections, systems development and training.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Key Link to strategy CORPORATE SOCIAL 1 Develop our specialist proposition 2 Expand the store portfolio RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued 3 Grow multi-channel 4 Develop and exploit our infrastructure Why it matters SUPPLIERS AND We do not manufacture our own products: therefore we need to maintain relationships with suppliers and manufacturers worldwide who can HUMAN RIGHTS meet our high standards for design, innovation, quality and value.
These Executive responsibility: suppliers must also demonstrate that they operate in accordance with Commercial Director 1 3 recognised standards that uphold human rights.
Effectively managing human rights throughout our supply chain is one of our key requirements, and management of 2013 14 objectives Achievements this area is built into our product procurement procedures.
Join SEDEX to gain We are members and are Members of our in-house technology team have extensive better visibility of supply encouraging suppliers to use experience of working with factories to improve adherence chain standards.
the Sedex Members Ethical to quality and ethical standards.
Monitoring and working Audits SMETA to allow to improve human rights issues forms part of the factory comparability across the management role carried out by our Far East sourcing supply base.
Set targets for key suppliers to We have extended coverage of improve workplace conditions our auditing regime to c. 1000 We work with our suppliers to ensure that our products are beyond the minimum.
factories which supply to us produced in clean and safe environments, that workers are either directly or indirectly.
Over treated with respect and earn a reasonable wage and that 56% of these have green or suppliers work within the relevant local laws and regulations.
All manufacturers with whom we trade directly are required to New sustainability standards to The volume of polystyrene sign up to our Code of Conduct based on the Ethical Trading be introduced to encourage waste has been reduced, Initiative ETI base code, this is available on our website better water usage, reduction by moving to more www.
No new factory source is taken on without of harmful effluents, use environmentally friendly a satisfactory audit being in place, and audits are repeated at of recycled materials and materials and engineered least every two years.
SMETA factory audits now include Where non-conformances are discovered we have a formal a sustainability section, so procedure for working with a supplier to help them achieve water usage, effluents etc compliance, usually within three months.
Critical noncan be monitored and conformances such as use of child labour, working against processes improved.
choice or absence of valid Building or Fire Certificate are Procedure to be implemented We are working with a third escalated immediately, and supplies cease until the issue has to ensure full traceability for party to help validate and been resolved.
Ultimately if progress is inadequate we will timber and paper products.
maintain the traceability cease to trade with the supplier.
information for timber based materials.
We aim to treat all of our suppliers fairly and consistently.
We ask all of our suppliers to sign our standard terms and conditions.
All new suppliers are made aware of the basis of Other achievements trade with Dunelm and in particular our standard payment We have improved our internal management of supply chain terms in advance of commencing trade.
The number of days human rights by creating our own database containing details purchases outstanding for payment at 28 June 2014 was 32 of factory audits and on-going work on corrective actions.
We have provided specialist training for our Technology team and also built consideration of corrective action progress into standard supplier monitoring procedures.
Through our Sedex membership and use of the SMETA standard audit we are able to evaluate factories fairly and have used Sedex resources to help educate our factories.
2014 15 objectives Improve communication with factories to develop their understanding of our requirements.
Increase the proportion of factories with green or amber audit status.
Continue to develop our in-house expertise in relation to human rights issues.
24 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Why it matters COMMUNITY It is important for us to be responsible members of our community, to maintain our reputation with customers, colleagues and the general Executive responsibility: public.
Commercial Director 1 2 3 4 What do we do?
We adopt a charity of the year, for which collections are made in-store, specific fund-raising events are organised and 2013 14 objectives Achievements the Group makes its own donations.
Each store has a Charity Support our Charity of the Funds were raised through Champion and amounts raised by store are reported monthly, Year, Barnardos whose a variety of ways, the annual with the top three recognised in the Dunelm Gazette.
work includes reaching and Friends and Family night, a helping children who have themed fancy dress fundraising We support colleagues who are raising money for charities been sexually exploited, evening in store, through sale of their choice, often by matching the sums raised.
From young people leaving the care of key rings, bake sales, fancy 2014, all colleagues are permitted a days paid leave for system, children with a parent dress days, sample sales and charitable activities.
in prison and families struggling team fundraising events.
We do not make any political donations.
The Group pays corporation tax on its operations In the The total value of donations made by the Group in the year United Kingdom and does not operate in any tax havens, or ended 28 June 2014 was 206,000 2013: 80,000.
This use any tax avoidance schemes.
includes a donation of 129,000 in lieu of 2013 annual bonus waived by Will Adderley.
Total funds raised for charity by the Group and colleagues was 352,000 2013: 205,000.
2014 15 objectives During 2014 15 our charity of the year will be Barnardos.
We will continue to support our colleagues in their charitable fundraising efforts.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Key Link to strategy CORPORATE SOCIAL 1 Develop our specialist proposition 2 Expand the store portfolio RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued 3 Grow multi-channel 4 Develop and exploit our infrastructure Why it matters ENVIRONMENT Dunelm recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the impact of its business on the environment both now and in the future.
The Group Executive responsibility: is committed to controlling and minimising the impact of its operations, Finance Director both directly and indirectly, in the key areas of waste management, energy 2 4 consumption Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions.
The Group has an Environment Committee consisting Lastly we have launched a programme with HM Prison of senior managers representing key areas of the Service to repair and re-use damaged furniture.
This team is tasked with the development cannot be re-sold as Grade A then it will used to support and implementation of strategy as well as ongoing prisoners integrating back into society or donated to HM monitoring of environmental performance.
WASTE RECYCLING 2013 14 objectives Achievements What do we do?
Dunelm is committed to increasing the volume of waste which is Maintain strategy of zero waste Dunelm has achieved Zero recycled whilst maintaining the status of zero waste to landfill.
Increase the recycled element Recycled waste increased to Our Recycle at Work initiative ensures that all superstores of waste.
83% in 2013 14. and warehouses have the capability to segregate, grade and Reduce the level of polystyrene Polystyrene has been reduced process waste locally and that colleagues are engaged and in packaging by 50%.
in circa 10% of packaging to supported to deal appropriately with waste at source.
have invested across the estate in balers, colour coded bins and signage and conduct twice-yearly waste audits to ensure on-going compliance and improvement.
Waste recycled all stores % 100 Our National Distribution Centre NDC in Stoke recycles all of our cardboard, plastics, paper, bottles, and cans.
90 80 83 82 Cardboard and plastic from this centre is subsequently sold 76 68 through our partnership with a packaging supplier to be 60 reprocessed into new packaging.
In addition we segregate all 40 of our metal, wood and electrical items to be sold for recycling Landll and eventual re-use.
Waste to Energy 20 Recyled Investment in the NDC, combined with our drive in stores has 0 10 11 11 1212 13 13 14 Target increased the level of recycled waste to 83% 2013: 82% 14 15 2014 15 objectives Any waste that is not recycled within the business is sent Maintain zero waste to landfill.
offsite for further sortation, to extract other recyclable content, Increase the recycled element of waste to over 90%.
with the remaining general waste being incinerated in a Continue to reduce polystyrene content in packaging.
waste to energy plant with carbon capture technology.
We have also focused on reducing supply-chain waste at source.
In 2014 we have increased investment in re-usable totes.
In addition we have eliminated the use of polystyrene packaging in two key suppliers and ensure that all suppliers package in clear LDPE Low Density Polyethylene, this product having a much greater recyclable content.
26 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials 2.
ENERGY USAGE What have we achieved this year?
Dunelm targets energy reduction on a site-by-site basis.
We 2013 14 objectives Achievements ensure that all sites are fitted with Automatic Meter Reading AMR smart meters to monitor and control consumption To reduce electricity usage by Electricity consumption of both electricity and gas.
Data on energy consumption is 5% in LFL stores.
captured on a half-hourly basis allowing us to profile high To reduce gas usage by 10% Gas usage has reduced or unusual patterns, target specific sites and to monitor the in LFL stores.
success of our energy reduction initiatives.
To fully trial LED lighting Full LED Investments have In addition stores are fitted with Building Management technologies in new stores.
been made in Basingstoke and Systems BMS as standard.
These BMS are hosted and Doncaster.
monitored by a specialist partner and are designed to help optimise energy usage while maintaining an appropriate Y-O-Y Reduction in electricity consumption trading environment for our customers and colleagues.
At the LFL stores % end of the year we had 130 stores 2013: 118 with BMS.
7.0% 6.0% Key initiatives to reduce energy usage have included: 6.3 5.0% Investment in two full LED stores in Basingstoke and 5.0 4.0% Doncaster 3.0% 3.2 Introduction of low energy and LED bulbs into all Lighting 2.0% Department displays 1.0% Removal of in-shelf lighting in stores where appropriate 0.0% Reduction in lux levels in stores during non-trading periods -1.0% -1.1 -1.2 Reduction of night-time gas usage -2.0% 09 1010 11 11 1212 13 Target 13 14 Over the course of the year, despite these actions, we have 2014 15 objectives seen an increase in electricity usage of 1.1% in like-for-like Reduce electricity by 5% in LFL stores.
stores although this was impacted by the untypically hot Reduce gas usage by 10% in LFL stores.
weather in July & August where consumption rose by 20% Roll-out full LED in new stores.
Underlying electricity usage, excluding this initial 5-week period, showed a reduction of 0.6% year-on-year.
Gas usage has decreased by 16.6% year-on-year, partly as a result of the mild winter, but also as a result of our success in reducing seasonal night time usage.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued 3.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GHG What do we do The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on The Group continues to source electricity from Green Energy the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company supplies such as combined heat and power sources where Reporting 2013.
CO e emissions were as follows: CO emissions are 30% lower than the national average.
2 2 As part of our carbon reduction work we have invested in Tonnes of CO e 2014 2013 2 photovotaic technology on the roof of our Leeds store.
This Purchase of Energy 28,504 26,747 array is targeted to generate over 85,000 KWhrs of electricity Cars on Company Business 650 500 and replace energy sourced through the national grid.
Total 29,154 27,247 We continue to reduce the emissions generated by our company car fleet by increasing and encouraging the use of fuel efficient vehicles in all schemes.
Average emissions were Intensity Measure tCO e per 1m 39.93 40.24 2 112 CO g km 2013: 114 CO g km.
Group Revenue 2 2 The Group works with a specialist partner to consult Dunelm uses Tonnes of CO e per m of turnover as its 2 on our energy buying strategy, investments in energy intensity measure reflecting the link between growth, activity saving technology and to further focus on reducing and performance.
Dunelm participates in the Environment Agencys Carbon What have we achieved this year?
Reduction Commitment CRC scheme and have, in addition, achieved accreditation with the Carbon Trust Standard CTS 2013 14 objectives Achievements recognising our success and commitment to reducing our carbon footprint.
Reduce relative CO emissions tCO e have reduced 0.8% 2 2 per 1m turnover year on year.
Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CO e emissions data is reported 2 Trial electricity generation from Solar array installed at Leeds.
using the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard Scope 1 & solar panels.
Scope 2 and applies to our organisational boundary as defined by the operational control approach.
2014 15 objectives Reduce tCO e emissions year on year.
2 Invest in an additional photovoltaic solar scheme.
Will Adderley Chief Executive 11 September 2014 28 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29
