Corporate responsibility OUR COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Having carried out an employee engagement survey Carolyn McCall OBE early in 2014, we saw our overall engagement score Chief Executive increase by 16%, compared to our last survey two years ago, which demonstrates we are making good progress.
However, there is more work to do in respect of employee engagement and supporting our people to reach their full potential which remain important priorities for us.
As an airline we have a responsibility to reduce our environmental impact, and our investment in 100 new Airbus A320neo aircraft which will be delivered from summer 2017 over the coming years will ensure we continue to operate one of the most efficient fleets in Europe.
Due to easyJets simple, efficient operations and young fleet our passengers carbon footprint is already 22% smaller than that of passengers on traditional airlines flying the same route.
This year our emissions per passenger km reduced by 1.73g km in line with achieving our target of reducing 2012 emissions by 2.5% by 2017.
We remain strongly committed to engaging with our local Our ambition is to make travel easy and communities and continue to support local initiatives and affordable for our passengers, delivering a activities across the network.
Our community engagement is friendly and efficient service with low fares.
particularly strong around our headquarters in Luton, where we employ the most people and have forged strong links with the We remain focused on our people, passengers local community through partnerships with schools, local and stakeholders all of whom we depend on government, businesses and the local league football team.
Corporate responsibility CR is therefore embedded in our vision and values Due to the volume of requests for charitable donations we receive, we decided to channel our efforts and fundraising and influences everything we do.
ability into one large charity.
UNICEF was selected via a structured process involving people from across the airline.
Our passengers and people lie at the heart of the airline.
Our partnership with UNICEF has raised over 3.9 million The delivery of high levels of customer service depends since 2012, with 1.9 million raised this financial year.
These on motivated, connected people.
As well as placing safety donations from easyJet and its passengers have benefitted as our highest priority we continually seek to improve communities far and wide including the vaccination of customer service.
Central to this is our ongoing work to 5.3 million mothers and babies across Africa and Syria.
embed our Customer Charter commitments across the business.
We were particularly pleased that our latest To help us move our CR programme forward we have employee engagement survey results show that 97% of this year surveyed the views of some of our passengers our people understand how important it is to make sure and people on easyJet and sustainability.
The findings our customers have a great easyJet experience.
In addition, demonstrate that they feel CR and sustainability are 86% agree they understand how they can deliver the important issues which we must continue to address.
promises in the Customer Charter.
Our passengers think we are the most sustainable of the airlines we compete with.
Strong support for the UNICEF Improving the customer experience at times of disruption partnership was balanced by the view we must continue has also been a focus this year.
New developments have to support local community initiatives alongside it.
included connecting our Operation Control Centre at Luton directly with customers so they can keep in touch with In the future we will continue to embed CR in the live updates an industry first.
business by building the capability of our people and remaining focused on the needs of our customers.
We continue to grow our talent to keep easyJet strong and develop the skills and competencies of our leaders In this section of the report we provide an overview of and managers.
This has included the launch of a new our performance in our key CR areas: safety, our people, People Manager Development Programme, accredited by our customers, the environment and the community.
Learning and development Further details in relation to each of these areas can be opportunities have been extended for all our people and found on our corporate website at http: corporate.
we continue to work to improve communication and com  engagement.
Employee wellbeing remains an important focus and we continue to build our programmes in this area, in particular in relation to peoples psychological health.
Carolyn McCall OBE Chief Executive 36 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report developed in conjunction with Cranfield University, to SAFETY FIRST the problem of inadvertent slide deployment.
Further At easyJet, the safety of passengers and people details can be found in the case study on page 38. comes first.
Safety is a guiding principle and Our strong focus on safety has helped us meet the new influences every decision made by the Company.
regulatory compliance requirements prescribed by the We continue to develop an open safety culture European Aviation Safety Agency EASA.
We are proud that promotes continuous improvements in to be able to report that easyJet has secured full EASA safety performance.
Approval for its Air Operators Certificate well ahead of the deadline.
Comprehensive processes and structures are Safety lies at the forefront of everything we do and we maintained to monitor and manage safety-related are continually working to make our airline safer.
Under risk throughout the airline.
The safety management our Air Operators Certificate we are required to regularly structure is led from the top of the organisation.
report our operating safety performance to the UK Civil Aviation Authority and other European national authorities.
The Chief Executive and Chief Operations Officer are These reporting requirements differ from more standard responsible for all aspects of safety delivery, including occupational health and safety metrics such as the compliance obligations under the Air Operators Certificate.
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences The Chief Executive chairs the Companys Safety Review Regulations RIDDOR in the UK.
Many occupational Board which meets monthly to assess reports from the health and safety requirements do not apply to airlines Safety Action Groups across the airline.
This review and in the same way.
assessment process delivers monthly reports to both This means that although we capture and monitor the UK Civil Aviation Authority and the easyJet Board.
all incidents and injuries to our people and passengers To further strengthen the safety structure and allow wherever they happen, the way in which we have more in-depth review of safety matters, the easyJet reported on our operating safety does not align with Board established the Safety Committee in January other industries reporting and is not in a format familiar 2013.
The primary function of the Committee is to assess to many of our stakeholders.
the Companys oversight of safety systems, processes, To address this issue, we have been looking at how to operations and resources, and to review and monitor present our data in a way that allows better comparison the implementation of the Companys annual safety plan.
of performance with other industries.
Over the coming year The Committee also examines specific safety issues as we will continue to refine our methods for generating data requested by the Board.
aligned to more standard occupational health and safety metrics which will allow us to present a broader range Further details can be found in the report of the of occupational health and safety data and trends.
Safety Committee on pages 58 to 59 Driving continuous improvement in safety performance No compromise on safety As part of easyJets ongoing commitment to safety At easyJet there is no compromise on safety.
We have improvement, we are placing a new emphasis on how we established a leading-edge Safety Management System can improve safety performance across our supply chain.
and Fatigue Risk Management System which are well Our aim is to ensure seamless safety standards across established and incorporate rigorous reporting processes.
the supply chain through the promotion of improved Through these systems we are continually working to drive communication and engagement on safety issues, and, safety performance improvements and reduce risks to above all, sharing and learning from best practice.
our people, passengers and suppliers.
To demonstrate our commitment to this new initiative we easyJet has long pioneered innovative solutions to improve have created a new role in the safety department to lead safety and continually seeks better ways to support our its implementation.
The new role will focus on the interface people to improve safety performance.
In particular we between easyJets world-leading Safety Management are developing our human factors capability to support System and the safety systems of our third-party suppliers this.
We have worked with external experts in the field on to ensure the highest standards are maintained across particular safety challenges and have recruited an expert easyJets network.
in human factors to support the safety team.
We have used human factors research to develop our industry-leading Fatigue Risk Management System which provides analytical data to determine reliable methods of predicting fatigue and alertness in pilots.
More recently we have applied a human factors intervention programme, www.
com 37 Corporate responsibility continued Protecting customers and our people CULTURE, PEOPLE AND PLATFORM easyJets security team works to reduce vulnerability Culture, people and platform is one of our key to security-related risks.
The team co-operates closely strategic drivers.
Our people are the key to our with government and regulatory agencies throughout the network, to ensure strict compliance with security ability to make travel easy and affordable and meet regulations.
Security risk assessments are conducted for our ambition of being Europes preferred short-haul each airport and country to which easyJet flies.
Our focus is to attract and retain the right standards of vigilance are maintained regarding the current people at every level of our organisation and to keep geopolitical situation within those countries to inform these them engaged so that we can deliver our business assessments.
easyJet implements measures to protect the goals and our customer promises.
Company from corporate and aviation security risks, ensuring internal governance of business-sensitive and personal data, vetting our people and asset protection.
We have a three-part people strategy to help us Security awareness is driven through the business to deliver this: ensure the security team is able to deliver an effective 1.
AT THE GATE and efficient support service to easyJets people.
Means ensuring that we have the right people, in the right job, at the right time, equipped to succeed and supported by processes that work.
ON BOARD As part of our drive to improve safety performance we Is about living the values, wanting to be part of recently sought to tackle the problem of inadvertent the Companys success and knowing the part slide deployment.
Although these incidents are very they play in delivering this.
infrequent less than eight per year prior to the introduction of this initiative, they present a risk to nearby ground crew and, with the right approach, 3.
ABLE TO FLY can be avoided.
Means promoting a high-performance culture Using a human factors intervention programme, where success and continuous improvement are developed in conjunction with Cranfield University, expected, managed and rewarded and people we undertook a detailed review of the processes achieve their potential.
and procedures concerned with the arming and disarming of the aircraft.
The findings have led to the introduction of new operating procedures which At the gate ensuring we have the right people include additional checks on approach to landing The significant growth of the airline has meant it has supported by revised cabin crew training.
been crucial to recruit high numbers of crew across Europe.
Through our high-volume recruitment programme we Since the introduction of the new procedures there have successfully maintained optimum employee levels have been no inadvertent slide deployments.
The last and recruited over 250 pilots and 1,200 cabin crew during reported incident occurred on 31 August 2013. the year.
In addition, we have recruited 358 specialised roles within our management and administration teams to support the growth of the business.
In line with our retention and development goals, 42% of these were recruited internally or resulted from internal promotions, compared to 38% last year.
As at 30 September 2014 easyJet employed 9,649 2013: 8,945 people across Europe.
Our effective recruitment processes are supported by continued high retention rates.
In the year ended 30 September 2014, employee turnover was 6.7%, reflecting our ongoing commitment to growing and developing our people.
38 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Employee turnover Employee attendance rates % % 97 9.7 6.7% 97% 96 7.5 95 6.7 6.5 0.2ppt 1ppt from 2013 2011 2012 2013 2014 from 2013 2012 2013 2014 On board living our values Engagement Once on board we work with our people to help them We are continually working to promote our culture and understand easyJets values and their role in the business values to help embed them in the business.
This year and to help them achieve their full potential.
We do this in particular focus has been placed on embedding the a number of ways.
values of Simplicity and One Team with the people in our management and administration team.
These are essential Induction to growing our business cost-effectively, and through It is important that on joining the business all new recruits promoting them we seek to encourage both collective receive a detailed induction programme to introduce them and individual ideas that help inform the business priorities to the business and their role within it.
All new employees and planning processes.
are enrolled on our induction programme.
In the case of To assess the impact of our programme on employee cabin crew, induction forms part of their basic training.
Induction includes mandatory e-learning in key areas engagement we conduct regular surveys.
This year we commissioned a new supplier for our survey following including ethics, safeguarding our reputation, our customers with a focus on the Customer Charter a review in 2013.
We were very pleased that the survey results, on a like-for-like basis, showed material and caring for our customers who have reduced mobility.
In addition, new recruits attend face-to-face induction improvements since our last survey in 2012, reflecting sessions where they come together to learn about the our ongoing commitment to engaging our people more business through interactive exercises.
deeply in the business: Working in partnership with representatives 16ppt increase in overall engagement score: Many of our employees are represented by unions and 13ppt improvement in likelihood to recommend easyJet other representative bodies.
We recognise the importance as an employer: and of actively engaging with these bodies across our operations to promote the success of the business.
We 15ppt improvement in likelihood to stay at easyJet.
currently engage with 16 unions and eight representative Areas identified for improvement include action planning bodies across eight countries, undertaking dialogue and for all functions to ensure that actions from the survey are negotiation, both informal and formal, on a regular basis.
taken forward, focusing on our people feeling valued and easyJet actively supports employee representatives by recognised and work life balance.
allowing them paid leave to undertake a range of activities from representation to formal negotiations and training.
During the 2014 financial year we released employee representatives for a total of 4,167 days at an estimated cost of 1.6 million.
com 39 Corporate responsibility continued Our people continue to show a high level of commitment Command leadership training has been enhanced to working at easyJet, demonstrated by high employee with an additional days training covering leadership attendance which has continued to improve.
and commercial awareness for new and existing captains.
We have run 90 courses to date with over Able to fly developing a high-performance culture 700 captains and have received excellent feedback.
Learning and development Developing our people to their full potential and ensuring We have launched a ground-breaking pilot degree they have the right skills for their role is an essential part of programme Bachelor of Professional Pilot Practice BSc developing a high-performance culture.
Through our online which is the first of its kind in the UK.
The programme, learning academy introduced in 2013 we now have nearly which is accredited by the University of Bedfordshire, has 300 learning and development opportunities available to been launched this year to our cadet pilots with a view our people.
These range from articles and videos to formal to offering it more widely in our pilot community in e-learning and face-to-face workshops.
In addition, this year the future.
we ran an annual National Learning at Work week.
This A culture of wellbeing involved functions within the business developing face-toOur peoples physical and psychological health is important face learning sessions open to all employees to promote a for continued success and growth.
Our overall aim is to better understanding of the business and help us live our keep our people happy, healthy and in work.
Through analysing management information that comes Building the capacity of our management population is from our specialist providers we have been seeking to also a high priority.
Our managers are key to ensuring we improve existing services and provide targeted help and meet operational performance targets, as well as ensuring support for our people.
Findings indicate that although it we have an engaged workforce.
Our new People is necessary to continue to support and promote good Management Development programme aims to provide physical health, there is a need to provide additional focus people managers with the basic skills and knowledge on peoples psychological health.
they need to effectively manage their direct reports.
This programme has now been accredited by the University To this end we have introduced a number of courses, of Bedfordshire and counts towards ongoing study for including an introduction to psychological health a MBA see the case study on page 43 for more details.
stress, anxiety and depression, mindfulness and resilience training.
During the year we have seen referral rates to We continue to invest in future talent to support business our occupational health services increase by around 17% continuity.
There are currently 29 people on our graduate as the benefits of the services are communicated to our scheme and we employ 20 engineering apprentices.
Based on a review of our services, we will soon Connected crew be introducing biopsychosocial assessment looking at Connected crew is our new programme to engage psychological and social wellness as well as physical illness.
pilots more closely with the business by improving Recognition and reward communication and offering further learning and We know that our approach to reward is critical to our development opportunities.
ability to attract and retain our people.
Pilot focus groups have been introduced to give easyJet offers a competitive reward package focused on pilots the opportunity to ask questions and provide driving a performance culture, with the emphasis on cash feedback to the management team face-to-face.
and variable pay rather than fixed benefits.
The reward 47 sessions have been run in Gatwick, Milan and Paris package includes an annual performance-driven bonus covering more than 500 pilots.
based on personal and Group performance and grants of share awards based on the financial performance of the Group.
40 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report All easyJet employees, with a minimum amount of service, Number of employees broken down by country have the opportunity to become shareholders in the Company.
At 30 September 2014 they held interests in 18 million shares between them worth 256 million.
This year employees realised large gains in share value.
For example, the Save As You Earn SAYE scheme, which matured during 2014, had an exercise price of 2.88.
The share price at 30 United Kingdom 5,958 September 2014 was 14.23 12.78 at 30 September 2013.
France 1,046 easyJet also has a Buy As You Earn BAYE share scheme Italy 981 Switzerland 818 and performance shares which easyJet gives to all its Germany 438 employees every year so they can share in the Companys Spain 269 success.
Each scheme is Her Majestys Revenue & Customs Portugal 138 HMRC approved and is open to all permanent employees Netherlands 1 on the UK payroll.
For our people who are on non-UK payrolls, international schemes have been established with similar terms and conditions.
We recognise that a diverse workforce will provide us easyJet also offers a small number of associated airline with an insight into different markets and help us anticipate benefits in line with our cost-focused approach.
These and provide what our customers want from us.
We have include insurances and access to travel on easyJet services actively sought to recruit across Europe to ensure our at cost price.
In the UK and Portugal we have also been employees reflect our customer base.
able to facilitate a number of additional flexible benefits Special assistance passengers under our Benefits4me programme.
These enable our people to access programmes and savings which would easyJet takes the welfare of all passengers extremely seriously as it continues to work to improve the travelling not be available to them on an individual basis, without additional cost to easyJet.
Our people can benefit from experience.
This includes the requirements of around 300,000 passengers requiring special assistance.
We reduced social security contributions for many of these flexible benefits, through salary sacrifice.
engage extensively and widely with organisations representing those with special needs and have in place easyJet contributes towards a group personal pension a special advisory group the easyJet Special Assistance plan in the UK and, where negotiated, to pension Advisory Group ESAAG chaired by The Right arrangements for our people in Germany and Portugal.
Honourable David Blunkett MP, to provide ongoing feedback and guidance.
A lifestyle benefits programme is also in place offering discounts on a wide range of products and services.
The ESAAG advises on the welfare needs, requirements and trends around the special assistance community.
It Equality and diversity provides feedback on all stages of the customer journey easyJet is an equal opportunities employer and we and advises on areas where adjustments can be made to always treat our employees and applicants fairly regardless improve the customer experience.
This year the ESAAG of their age, gender, full or part-time status, disability and has been critical in helping us understand the need for marital status.
on-board wheelchairs, which are now being installed easyJet values diversity and inclusivity and we also drive throughout our fleet.
for a high-performance culture: as such we strive to employ All ground and air crew receive ongoing training in and leverage the best talent that can deliver our business providing support to those with special needs.
To this extent easyJet ensures that talented highis subject to ongoing review and improvement taking on performing individuals with disabilities are supported in board comments and feedback from special assistance joining us and in continuing to reach and maintain their and disabled passengers.
performance potential, through flexibility in our offering and making reasonable adjustments to the workplace to make it easy for them to contribute at a high level.
com 41 Corporate responsibility continued Gender equality Directors on 1 October and 1 December, the Board will We work particularly hard to create an environment retain its 20% female Board representation from last where women have the opportunity to build careers year.
This is a percentage which easyJet aspires to retain in all communities and at all management levels of the in the future.
organisation, by ensuring there is a pipeline of women 36% four of 11 of easyJets Executive Management coming up through the organisation.
Team are women, including our Chief Executive, Carolyn Women are actively encouraged and supported as they McCall, along with the airlines Strategy and Implementation Director, one of two Commercial Directors and the progress through the organisation.
We aim to provide flexible working arrangements, part-time working and job People Director.
sharing that fit our business model and work for our 14 out of 63 22% of the Senior Management Team are people.
In 2012, we established a womens network which female.
The number of women in the Senior Management encourages women across the Group to come together Team is the same as last year although the team has to network and share experiences and challenges.
easyJet has also signed up to the think, act, report Middle managers will provide the pipeline for future senior campaign which promotes equal opportunities for women managers and growing the number of women in this group in the workplace.
The campaign provides a simple step-byis an important part of our strategy to grow the number step framework to help companies think about gender of women in our Senior Management Team.
Currently equality in their workforces, particularly in relation to around 30% 76 of 245 of positions in this group are held recruitment, retention, promotion and pay.
by women, the same percentage as in 2013.
46% of our overall workforce is female.
The Company has two female Directors on its Board, one being the Chief Executive.
Following the appointment of the two new Non-Executive Directors on 22 July and the stepping down of the two outgoing Non-Executive Board of Directors Executive Management Team 12 11 Male 10 Male 7 Female 2 Female 4 Senior Management Team All easyJet employees 63 9,649 Male 49 Male 5,194 Female 14 Female 4,455 Based on employees as at 30 September 2014.
42 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 BUILDING THE CAPACITY OF OUR PEOPLE MANAGERS This year we launched a leading-edge people manager this is the best programme I have attended during development programme designed to provide people my career managers with the skills and knowledge they need to a really great reminder of the management fundamentals.
manage their direct reports performance, engagement This has helped me to prioritise the areas I need to improve on and development effectively.
The programme is a threeand-a-half-day module delivered over a three-month period The programme recently gained accreditation from and includes the use of a 180 degree feedback tool to the University of Bedfordshire.
Participants now receive help managers understand their own personal gaps and a fundamentals of management certificate from the measure their progress over time.
Those wishing to continue studying, on satisfactory completion of a personal development plan, The programme was developed following a review of can gain credits towards a Masters level programme best practice both within the industry and beyond and e. g. MBA.
The University acknowledged that the through consultation with our current managers in the form programme was very well thought out, promoting personal of a series of focus groups looking at current skills gaps.
development with a knowledge of corporate impact and To date 172 people managers have completed the containing robust and well researched underpinning.
programme with evaluations averaging 8.9 out of 10. www.
com 43 Corporate responsibility continued Customers: easyJet is committed to making travel easy EASYJETS COMMITMENT ON and affordable for all of its customers.
It upholds the equal HUMAN RIGHTS treatment of all passengers regardless of their personal characteristics or social status.
This commitment is supported easyJet has a responsibility to conduct business by the advice of stakeholders within easyJet and the in an ethical and transparent way.
The Company continued involvement of the easyJet Special Assistance has in place policies to support recognised human Advisory Group ESAAG in policy and product development.
These include policies on nonSuppliers and third parties: easyJet will never knowingly discrimination, health and safety, anti-bribery and infringe the human rights of others.
It seeks to prevent or environmental issues.
The Company also maintains mitigate any adverse human rights impact directly linked a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
to its business relationships through obtaining appropriate easyJet seeks to comply with all relevant laws in the contractual commitments.
It expects third parties who deal countries in which it operates, and co-operates with on its behalf to observe the principles of the International the efforts of national law enforcement agencies and Bill of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration and the UN border agencies to combat human rights abuses and Guiding Principles.
crimes such as human trafficking.
It adheres to a set Bribery and corruption of business principles including a commitment to easyJet has a company-wide anti-bribery and corruption internationally proclaimed human rights standards.
There is also a gifts and hospitality policy and online These standards apply for the individuals working within register to record all gifts and hospitality that are accepted the organisation and its customers.
It is compulsory for all management and The Companys policies seek to respect and maintain the administration employees to complete anti-bribery and human rights standards defined in the International Bill of ethics training and pass an online examination.
The Company observes the principles set of an employees probationary period is also dependent on out by the International Labour Organisation Declaration this.
As at 30 September 2014, the training and examination on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work the ILO had been completed by 100% of management and Declaration.
It accepts its corporate responsibility to administration employees.
respect human rights, as set out in the United Nations Community and charitable activities Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights easyJet remains strongly committed to engaging with the UN Guiding Principles.
the local communities where we are based and harnessing Employees: easyJet conducts its employment practices the fundraising powers of our employees and significant in an ethical and socially responsible manner.
Our fundraising activities are driven the human rights of its employees as established in the through our partnership with UNICEF, the worlds leading four principles of the ILO Declaration.
organisation focusing on children and their rights, under the Change for Good partnership established in 2012.
Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: easyJet recognises and respects its employees right to join associations and choose representative organisations for the purpose of engaging in collective bargaining in a manner consistent with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour: easyJet does not utilise forced or compulsory labour.
It recruits its employees and provides working conditions, including payment of wages and benefits, which comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Effective abolition of child labour: all easyJet employees are above the legal employment age in the country of their employment.
Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation: easyJet has committed human resources policies including non-discrimination and health and safety policies.
44 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report UNICEF Our pan-European charity partner Supporting local communities Change for Good Across our network easyJet seeks to develop relationships easyJets charity partnership with UNICEF has continued with local communities and support local initiatives.
It is now in its third year and Our links are particularly strong around our headquarters since 2012 easyJet has raised over 3.9 million for the in Luton where the majority of our employees are based.
charity, with 1.9 million raised this financial year.
This is We are long-term supporters of Luton Town Football more than any other UNICEF airline partner, demonstrating Club and support the Love Luton Campaign.
This year our commitment to the partnership, an achievement we we also supported the Christmas lights in Luton town aim to continue.
centre after a funding shortage threatened their future.
The Change for Good programme offers all easyJet We have strong relationships with a number of local customers the opportunity to support the worlds children schools.
Many of our pilots and cabin crew visit local by dropping their spare change and leftover foreign currency schools to give talks about the Company and industry.
Two standard collections take These visits help young people understand the careers place each year, one in the summer and one in the winter.
potentially available to them in the industry and how This year we also managed special collections for the they can access them.
Philippines, and UK Soccer Aid.
Through the partnership we have enabled UNICEF to take advantage of matching We continue to support Pride in various cities funding from the Department for International Development including Manchester and Berlin in recognition of for the winter collection and Soccer Aid.
We promote and encourage employee engagement This year we have been appointed as a partner to through the partnership.
This year we provided our Dementia Friends to help the charity raise awareness employees with the opportunity to take part in a of dementia and how to help people who suffer with sponsored tandem skydive to raise money for UNICEF.
We will work with them to raise their profile and the understanding of the condition amongst A number of our employees have also had the opportunity employees.
Through this relationship, our people will have to see the charity in action.
Earlier this year our Head of the opportunity to become a dementia friend through Cabin Services and two crew members went on a field a short training session.
This relationship is particularly trip to Mauritania, West Africa, to learn more about polio important to us as there are currently over 800,000 vaccines and how our funds are used to support those people living with dementia in the UK, with this figure most in need.
predicted to increase to over 1 million by 2021.
Donations from easyJet and its passengers have allowed We continue to run our Fearless Flyer programme to UNICEF to vaccinate over 5.3 million mothers and children help those who either have a fear or nervousness of against preventable, life-threatening diseases across Africa flying, to overcome them.
This year we ran 12 sessions and Syria.
across the UK, with 1,044 participants.
The course The Company has also provided benefits in kind including consists of two parts: in the first part an experienced free profile-raising for the charity through various channels easyJet captain deals with any misconceptions that and free flights to support the work of the charity.
participants may have about flying.
In addition, the well-known phobia expert, Lawrence Leyton, teaches Charity Committee people proven techniques to help overcome the easyJet has a dedicated European Charity Committee anxieties and concerns nervous flyers typically have.
In made up of easyJet employees to oversee the partnership the second part, participants and travelling companions with UNICEF.
The Committee also determines how the go on an experience flight operated by easyJet.
annual charitable fund is spent.
Since launching in 2012, the Committee has awarded 72,000 to over 100 local In response to the feedback from our CR survey we charities across our network.
will continue to support UNICEF in the coming year, and will also look to extend our support for local community projects, particularly where their objectives align with ours and where there is the opportunity to engage our employees in their activity.
com 45 Corporate responsibility continued HOW OUR FUNDRAISING HAS SUPPORTED UNICEF In Syria, funds have provided 2 million polio vaccines Since the start of the UNICEF partnership in to children and 450,000 blankets to refugee camps 2012, our customers and employees have helped to help children survive the cold winter.
us raise over 3.9 million for the charity, which During the Philippines Emergency, easyJets support has benefited communities far and wide.
helped provide 95 tents, 242 tarpaulins, and 3,000 5.3 million mothers and babies have been vaccinated temporary learning spaces, meaning 500,000 children across Africa and Syria.
This programme has included could attend temporary schools.
educating communities, distributing vitamin A supplements and carrying out essential health Funds from easyJet have supported UNICEFs goal assessments for under-fives.
of increasing immunisation coverage from 80% to 85% for children living in Liberia over the past two years.
In the Central African Republic, 550,000 children We would like to thank our customers and employees have been vaccinated against measles and polio and vitamin A supplements have been distributed.
for their ongoing support for our fundraising activity.
In Mauritania the funding has supported the provision of essential refrigeration facilities for vaccines, trained health workers and helped distribute vaccines across the country.
46 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Fuel-burn Carbon reduction Fuels trading ENVIRONMENT Net CO emissions from UK aviation 2 Addressing environmental impact is clearly part of the responsibility of an airline.
easyJet also considers 2.5 it a business imperative.
Environmental concerns have a significant impact on public policy towards 2.0 aviation, from restrictions on airport expansion to passenger taxes.
It is therefore in the Companys 1.5 interest to ensure that both easyJet and the wider industry properly address environmental concerns.
1.0 Aviation emissions continue to increase.
Over the last 10 years global aviation traffic has grown by over 5% a 0.5 year, while efficiency gains have been about 2%.
Unless the industry can reverse this trend there is a real risk it will 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 be subjected to growth constraints: a suggestion already put forward by the Committee on Climate Change in Demand growth Sustainable fuels their December 2009 report.
To prevent this, the industry Operations & ATM Carbon trading Imminent aircraft Net emissions needs to significantly reduce emissions from flying, through Future aircraft step-changes in technology and the right incentives, to ensure that airlines and passengers fly as efficiently as possible.
Climate change Projection of CO emissions from UK aviation 2 easyJet believes the most important environmental issue easyJet was among the first supporters of aviations entry facing the industry is climate change.
In common with into the European Unions Emission Trading System ETS, other transport organisations, there remain significant an important step to ensuring that aviation is helping to challenges in moving away from reliance on fossil fuels.
The Company was disappointed In the short to medium term, easyJet remains committed that the scope of aviations role in ETS has been reduced to making its operations as efficient as possible through with the exclusion of long-haul flights in 2013 and believes purchasing the most fuel efficient aircraft available and the future scope should be as wide as possible.
is continuing to work towards a wider scope through its European airline association, ELFAA.
To support the longer-term technological change necessary to deliver more sustainable flying, easyJet To achieve further emission reductions, it is vital that the supports industry-wide efforts as a member of Sustainable policy framework set by governments supports increased Aviation.
This is a UK body that focuses on cross-industry environmental efficiency in aviation.
easyJet would like measures to improve carbon efficiency in particular.
to see aviation taxes support environmental objectives.
Sustainable Aviation has shown how reductions in overall Aviation-specific taxes should provide incentives for more CO emissions can be delivered alongside growth in environmentally efficient flying.
The chart on this page sets out the path to lower easyJets CO emissions 2 emissions and the contribution from different emission easyJets CO emissions were 5.9 million tonnes compared 2 saving aspects.
to 5.5 million tonnes for the 2013 financial year.
The calculation of these emissions is based on fuel burn measurement, which is verified to comply with ETS requirements.
CO equivalents from emissions of other 2 greenhouse gases are not included as there are no conversion factors available for these emissions from aircraft fuel burn.
com 47 Corporate responsibility continued easyJet also monitors emissions per passenger kilometre.
Local air quality This is a measure of how efficiently passengers are carried and Local air quality impact arises from nitrogen oxides NOx allows comparison between airlines.
easyJets emissions per emissions during aircraft take-offs and landings.
easyJet passenger kilometre are amongst the lowest in the industry has upgraded 62% of engines with the tech insertion and have reduced significantly over the past 10 years.
In the upgrade which reduces NOx emissions by around 10%.
2014 financial year, easyJets emissions per passenger km These engines are the best in class and help minimise the standard industry measure of efficiency were 82.03g km, the impact on local air quality.
Noise In 2013, easyJet set targets for the reduction of CO Aircraft noise clearly has an impact on residents around 2 g km per passenger, of 2.5% by 2017 and 5% by 2022. airports.
easyJet complies with local rules that govern noise An important factor in achieving these targets will be the at airports such as curfews and routings to avoid built-up recent order for the new generation of Airbus short-haul areas.
easyJet aircraft meet the tightest international aircraft, entering the fleet from 2017.
These aircraft are noise standards ICAO chapter 4.
The Companys focus 13% to 15% more fuel efficient than the existing fleet.
on improving the efficiency of flying has also reduced the noise impact: by changing the flap settings used for To reduce emissions further, significant progress in the landings, fuel efficiency has improved and noise levels development of the new generation of aircraft will be at landing have been reduced.
While there has been some progress in the short-haul market a second step change in easyJet also works locally with airports and air traffic efficiency is necessary.
easyJet will continue to push control to put in place noise mitigation activities that the manufacturers to deliver this and would also like to best fit each airport.
see international minimum standards in place to drive Recycling the development of new technology aircraft.
On board, easyJet has a two-bag waste collection system In the meantime, easyJet has an ongoing programme that which separates recyclable material such as newspapers, looks at how existing aircraft can be flown as efficiently plastic bottles and metal cans from general waste.
This includes the ongoing installation of new Poster campaigns have been used to promote recycling lightweight seats and trolleys and the introduction of to cabin crew.
Sharklets: an enlarged wing tip which makes the wing more easyJet also has recycling systems in place in its offices aerodynamic.
Fuel efficiency is monitored to determine and hangars around the network to recycle a variety the impact of these measures.
Although some of these of materials including food waste, oil, aluminium, paper, measures reduce CO emissions per flight by relatively small 2 plastics and drinks cans.
amounts, as easyJet averages over 1,200 flights a day, total savings are significant.
Employee and passenger feedback has shown an appetite for improving our systems for recycling.
Irrespective of the separation we undertake on board, recycling is dependent on the facilities at each airport where waste is collected by local cleaning and ground handling contractors.
A recent survey of all our airports identified that over 50% currently have recycling facilities.
We are working with the others to see if we can work together to improve recycling opportunities.
Governance Many people within easyJet help deliver easyJets environmental aims.
Oversight of easyJets environment policy is carried out by its regulatory team, and the Executive Management Team and Chief Executive receive regular updates on environmental policy as part of reporting on regulatory issues.
48 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report 4,649 participants in 2014 agreed that they understood OUR CUSTOMERS how important it was to make sure our customers had easyJet is passionate about connecting people a great easyJet experience.
In addition, 86% agreed they by making travel easy and affordable.
At easyJet, understood how they could deliver the promises in the Customer Charter.
service is focused on the customer, with an emphasis on creating a friendly experience.
Our Customer Charter also drives us to continually improve Our Customer Charter, co-created with over the customer experience.
This year we have concentrated 300 employees including pilots, cabin crew and in particular on improving customer service at airports and developing technology to enable us to provide customers contact centre employees, was published in 2013 with better real-time information at times of disruption.
and sets out what customers should expect when they travel with us: Improving customer service at airports Improving customer services at airports has been driven Safety first, we never compromise through our Triple C programme Customer, Communication, On your side, we see it from your point of view Consistency.
With approximately 20,000 people representing easyJet in airports throughout our network, A big smile, friendly service is our passion it is important they feel connected to easyJet and bring to life the brand experience in the airport so it mirrors the Make it easy, at every step on-board experience.
The Triple C programme has included Open and upfront, we will always be straight with you customer host training, improved communication and ongoing engagement of ground crew to drive more Customer at the heart of easyJet consistent and improved interaction with customers.
We are continually working to embed our Customer Our customer satisfaction data for staff friendliness has Charter commitments across the Company to ensure shown overall improvements over the past year, suggesting we live them on a day-to-day basis.
Integral to this is the programme is starting to have an impact.
In particular, understanding how we can support our people to deliver friendliness satisfaction in relation to our people at bag them.
To this end a particular initiative this year has been drop has shown significant improvements rising eight to help our senior managers and administrators gain a percentage points to 80%.
To support the Triple C better understanding of what it is like to work in a contact programme we have sought to reduce customer waiting centre or customer service team.
We achieved this by times and have introduced customer hosts at the bag drop establishing a temporary call centre in Luton for a week.
These initiatives are supported 167 of our directors, managers and administrators answered by the introduction of our Customer Services Manual which live calls giving them first-hand experience of what is sets out the policies and procedures ground handlers involved.
They were supported by contact centre agents are expected to follow.
We believe that our ongoing focus on embedding and communicating our Customer Charter is having an impact.
We are proud to be able to report that 97% of our people who took part in our employee engagement survey Satisfaction with staff friendliness 100% 90% 80% 70% Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 12 13 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 Bag drop staff Boarding staff Cabin crew www.
com 49 Corporate responsibility continued Using digital technology to transform our customers On-time performance experience during disruption Strong operational performance is critical to easyJet.
We fly up to 1,400 sectors each day across Europe.
Ensuring the aircraft depart and arrive on time minimises Disruption can therefore have a significant impact on the cost of disruption, improves customer satisfaction both our operations and our customers experience.
We and promotes repeat purchases.
want to provide our customers with the best available easyJet works hard to maintain strong on-time information at times of disruption, supported by open and performance and has sought to lead the industry in transparent information in line with our Customer Charter.
For example, to maintain punctuality during As a result we have introduced a number of new measures the roll-out of allocated seating, the easyJet turn to improve information availability and access.
This involved working with pilots, cabin crew and ground handling partners to review We have introduced an innovative flight tracker all policies and procedures associated with turning round tool across easyJet.
com and our app which enables an aircraft, and unnecessary processes were removed and customers to track their flight status and keep in operations streamlined.
This year has seen a small drop in on-time performance We have achieved an industry first by connecting from previous years due to unusually high levels of our Operation Control Centre at Luton directly with disruption across the network.
These have been largely customers so they can keep in touch with live updates.
Bad weather has caused disruption, including flooding at Gatwick Airport on Christmas Eve, We have added push notifications to our mobile app and further disruption has been caused by strike action of which has been downloaded more than 10 million times certain air traffic control staff.
Maintaining strong on-time so customers can opt into being alerted when there is performance remains incredibly important to us and we new information.
will continue to do everything within our control to maintain We have formed an innovative partnership with Flight punctual services.
Radar 24, which allows customers to track the live Customer satisfaction location of our flights across Europe.
This is also of We seek regular feedback from customers through our benefit to friends and relatives who can see the location customer satisfaction surveys, which customers are invited of incoming flights.
to complete shortly after taking their flight.
We receive We will continue to look at further ways to improve feedback from over 400,000 customers each year, our customers experience during disruption using digital covering all aspects of the customer journey from booking technology both through mobile, easyJet.
com and within to arrival.
In addition, we have an established online the airport environment.
customer community a forum of over 3,000 customers who participate in online discussions that help shape customer service improvement initiatives.
Last year we ran 87 discussions via the forum on a wide range of topics, including allocated seating and business travel.
50 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Internally, customer issues are managed by a Customer Board that brings together key people in the Company involved in the customer journey.
The Customer Board shares data and insights and discusses and agrees ongoing improvement initiatives.
During the summer months, our peak travel period, there was more widespread disruption than we have seen in recent years, as a result of air traffic control strikes and severe weather-related disruption, as well as a number of resilience issues at Gatwick which impacted all airlines at the airport.
This is reflected in the reduction in our on-time performance from 87% in the year ended 30 September 2013, to 85%, and the consequent fall in overall customer satisfaction from 80% to 78% in the year ended 30 September 2014.
We also use our customer surveys to gauge future customer value as there is a clear link between deep satisfaction and brand advocacy likelihood to recommend easyJet.
Currently 55% of our customers are completely or very satisfied.
Our aim is to increase the proportion of customers in these categories.
As part of strengthening stakeholder engagement on sustainability issues, we extended our customer research this year to also gain more insight into how our customers view sustainability and how this impacts on their impressions of easyJet.
Overall the findings indicate that sustainability is important to our customers.
They feel particularly strongly that companies have a responsibility for peoples wellbeing.
A high proportion believes that airlines in general could do more to reduce their environmental impact, although only 40% said easyJets approach to the environment would impact on whether they recommended easyJet.
Compared to 10 other airlines easyJet was considered the most sustainable.
55% of customers felt the UNICEF partnership made them feel more positive about easyJet, balanced by the view that we must continue to support local community initiatives alongside it.
