GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT Introduction by Ken Hanna, Ethics Committee Chairman The Ethics Committee is currently made up of two independent Non-executive Directors, with me as Chairman.
I have been amember of the Committee since its first meeting in February 2011 and became Chairman of the Committee in April 2012.
In 2014 the Committee met three times.
During the course ofthe year we invited the Regional Executive Directors from EMEAand Americas to attend and report on compliance and areas of higher ethical risk within their regions.
We also invited the Group Operations and Technology Director toreport on compliance issues within the newly formed Operations and Technology team.
Ken Hanna To the left there is a summary of the key actions of the Ethics Committee Chairman Committee in 2014 and intended areas of focus in2015.
Further detail on our actions in 2014 are included in the full The role of the Ethics Committee is to ensure Ethics Committee report below.
thatAggreko conducts business with integrity andhonestyand in accordance with the law.
Role of Ethics Committee Advise the Board on the development of strategy and 2014 Key achievements policyon ethical matters.
Reviewed and approved changes to ethics policies Advise the Board on steps to be taken to establish a Monitored the implementation of an ethics training programme foremployees cultureof integrity and honesty in all of the Companys Approved the introduction of a web-based compliance certification business dealings.
programme for all employees Oversee the Companys policies and procedures for the Monitored the phased implementation of a risk based due diligence identification, assessment, management and reporting programme for third-party suppliers ofethical risk.
Received briefings from regions and the central Operations and Oversee the Companys policies and procedures to Technology function covering their approach to monitoring compliance within their functions preventpersons associated with the Company from Appointed Head of Compliance engaging in bribery.
Monitor and review the operation of the Companys ethicspolicies and procedures.
Members in 2014 Scheduled meetings attended Ken Hanna Ethics Committee Chairman 1 David Hamill Non-executive Director Diana Layfield Non-executive Director 2 Ian Marchant Non-executive Director 1 David Hamill retired from the Board on 24 April 2014 2 Ian Marchant was appointed to the Committee on 24 April 2014 Areas of focus for 2015 Oversee the full integration of the risk based due diligence into the supplychain processes Oversee the implementation of targeted compliance training to seniormanagement and areas of the business with greater exposure toethicalissues Oversee a review of the sanctions compliance programme Review the findings and implement any recommendations arising fromthe internal audit review of ethics and compliance scheduled forearly 2015 Ethics Committee terms of reference: www.
pdf 88 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Main activities of the Ethics Committee Ethics policies during the year In 2014 we approved revised versions of the Sales Consultants Policy, the Charitable Donations Policy and the Sponsorship Policy.
We modified these policies to take account of Appointment of Head of Compliance recommendations made following a risk assessment and In February 2014 we appointed a new Head ofCompliance, review of all ethics policies.
Whilst the policies were working reporting to the Group Legal Director & CompanySecretary, well in ensuring that all employees comply with the high ethical tosupport the Committee in leading theimplementation of standards expected throughout Aggreko, we introduced theGroups ethical strategy.
certain improvements to ensure that the policies remain robustand continue to meet the needs of the business.
Monitoring activities As we have identified on page 32, one ofthe most significant Online learning platform risks to Aggreko is the conduct ofthird-party sales consultants.
We are committed to providing regular training on ethical issues The number of third-party sales consultants used by the to employees to ensure that employees remain alert to risks business has reduced over the last fewyears but there is and are regularly reminded of the standards expected by acontinued requirement for third-party sales consultants Aggreko.
An online training programme was launched in tohelpsupport some areas of the business.
We have risk November 2013 and has been successfully rolled out to management measures in place which require allthird-party allemployees.
The Committee received briefings at each sales consultants engaged by Aggreko to conduct business ofthemeetings of the Committee on the progress of this incompliance with the standards set out in our ethics policy training throughout the business.
This training has also been and allow us to monitor compliance with these requirements.
supplemented by additional ethics workshops with senior We also have controls in place in relation to the remuneration management.
In future years, periodic refresher training ofconsultants and we monitor all payments to third-party will continue.
At the first meeting of each year, we receive a briefing on all payments made to third-party sales consultants during the prior year to ensure that the payments were Briefing from Regional Directors and appropriate and in line with policy requirements.
Executive Committee members A risk assessment of other third parties engaged by the Aggrekos ethics programme is coordinated by the central business identified other types of supplier relationships compliance function but it is supported by the three regions whichpotentially could attract risk for the business.
In response and the central functions to embed an ethical compliance to thisrisk assessment a risk based due diligence process culture throughout the business.
We invited the Regional hasbeen developed and a phased implementation process Executive Directors from EMEA and Americas to attend iscurrently underway.
theCommittee to report on compliance and potential areas ofhigher ethical risk within their regions.
We also invited Read more about our risks theGroup Operations & Technology Director to report on Page 28 compliance issues within the Operations and Technology team.
We will hear from the Regional Executive Director for the APAC region in 2015.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 89
