ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 34 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility Sound corporate responsibility practices are integral to our business.
Corporate responsibility CR is an integral part of our business Our 2014 key achievements include: and we strive to align our values and strategy with responsible t Our Community: In addition to their time, employees have and ethical business policies and practices.
We embrace supported a range of charities, with a fundraising total responsibility for the Companys actions and through our across the Group of over 240,000. activities encourage a positive impact on our environment, t Our People: Following the results of the first global consumers, employees, communities and other stakeholders.
employee engagement survey, My Voice, we introduced Our Group Chief Executive is the Director responsible for CR, a global engagement governance structure and developed and the Board of Electrocomponents monitors CR matters engagement action plans, which are being implemented at across the Groups business operations.
global, functional and local levels.
We had an 85% response We have identified the following CR risks as having rate to this years My Voice survey, which resulted in an the greatest potential impact on our business and key increase of 3% in employee engagement levels.
stakeholders: waste and recycling: packaging and paper: t Our Health and Safety: Performance has continued to see water usage: emissions: health and safety: and employee significant improvements, with a 60% reduction in the and community engagement.
We address these risks and number of days lost due to accidents from 405 in 2013 to communicate our performance and progress under the 151 in 2014.
For the first time we have been granted the headings: Our Community: Our People: Our Health and Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold Safety: and Our Environment.
Award for ongoing commitment to raising occupational health and safety standards.
Our CR approach is aligned around the themes of t Our Environment: The Group improved its environmental engagement and efficiency.
These themes are directly linked performance in all key areas resulting in reductions of back to our strategic initiatives of High Performing Team and 5.8% in CO intensity, 9.2% in waste intensity, 11.8% in World Class Systems respectively.
2 packaging per line ordered and 12.7% in water use per We encourage local initiatives and, where practical, share best head.
The main drivers behind the CR activities are to: Electrocomponents is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, t Support the environmental agenda in order to contribute to which measures the performance of companies that meet cost and operational efficiencies globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
t Support employee engagement, which has been mainly We have once again secured a place on the Global 100 driven through Our People and Our Health and Safety Most Sustainable Corporations list, published by Corporate initiatives Knights in January 2014, ranking us as one of the top overall sustainability performers in our industrial sector.
t Ensure that we comply with the relevant legislation and codes The Group has a policy manual, Our Standards, which sets out the standards of behaviour to which every employee is expected to work and which defines the core values and principles we apply in dealing with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The manual covers gifts, hospitality and donations, fraud, compliance, competition law, whistleblower policy Speak Up, conflicts of interest and respect for our employees.
This year we have updated Our Standards and issued it to our management population across the Group in seven languages: it can be found on our corporate website: http: www.
com investor-centre corporate-governance code-of-conduct We have a zero tolerance approach to all forms of bribery and corruption.
The Anti-Bribery Policy applies to all businesses, Directors and employees within our Group to ensure compliance with all laws and regulations governing bribery and corruption in the countries in which we operate.
Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 35 Our Community We actively support engagement with local communities and our employees feel passionately about supporting the local communities they live in.
Our approach is to encourage our people to spend time on fundraising activities and take the initiative in supporting local charities.
During 2014, our employees across the world have invested their time and money in raising funds for a wide range of valuable causes, from disaster and cancer charities to community youth projects, the majority of which have been supported at a local level.
Most of the fundraising has been employee-led but there have also been monetary and stock donations made from the Company in different markets.
Our global fundraising reached over 240,000.
Some key donations include: North America: $17,929 was donated by employees for United Way, an organisation dedicated to improving education, income and health in communities across the country.
Pictured: The RS UK My Community team presenting a cheque to the UK: An initial donation of 2,450 enabled Lakelands Hospice Lakelands Hospice in Corby, Northamptonshire.
to organise a series of events, which RS employees participated in, to raise 31,395.
Working together to aid the Philippines On 8 November 2013, Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines affecting about 9.5 million people across the country.
In response to this disaster, RS teams across the world collected end-of-line products to aid the rebuilding of the devastated areas of the Philippines.
To date, RS has sourced over 85,000 worth of end-of-line products, such as power tools, protective clothing, fire extinguishers, and batteries.
The items were gathered from across the world and our people helped to pick and pack the products.
In addition, employees in Australia and Spain organised events to raise money for the Philippines relief.
RS Italy donated 274 hours of their salary to raise money for CARITAS, a charity actively involved in providing aid to the affected people of the Philippines.
Donated hours equated to 6,025 Euros: this was matched by the company resulting in a monetary donation of 12,050 Euros.
In South East Asia, the RS team also worked together and raised money to donate to the Philippines relief efforts.
Furthermore, many employees were personally affected by the disaster and so donated much of their time helping in many ways to rebuild the devastated areas across the Philippines.
com ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 36 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY t Monitoring Our People We have implemented a new process to monitor how My V oice we are performing in key areas, including whether we are During this year we have been addressing the concerns raised attracting, promoting and retaining a good mix of people.
in our first global employee engagement survey, My Voice, Our aim is to have a much clearer picture of diversity conducted in February 2013.
Following analysis of the survey across our business.
results, a global employee engagement governance structure All of the Groups employment and training policies are was established to drive activity across the business.
compliant with relevant employment legislation and regulatory Globally the business identified six engagement priorities: obligations.
Where appropriate, facilities are adapted and Career structures: My Career: People Days: Communication: retraining offered to any employee who develops a disability Reward: and Leadership and Management Behaviours and during their employment.
Recruitment Based on the survey results and subsequent workshops, each In January of this year we began a partnership with Alexander of our global functions defined the key themes that required Mann Solutions AMS to manage recruitment for RS globally, action and explored the root causes.
They then designed a excluding Japan, South Africa and Chile.
The new partnership prioritised action plan to address the concerns of their specific will give us a consistent recruitment process across much global function.
Our global functions are now implementing of the business, improved metrics and the benefit of AMS their plans across their teams.
extensive experience in sourcing a diverse pool of candidates.
In February 2014 we conducted a second My Voice survey in Employee communication 12 languages and had an 85% response rate and an increase The Group communicates business performance and key of 3% in employee engagement scores.
The results of the developments in a variety of ways: two-way communication is survey indicate that we are building confidence with the plans actively promoted.
The Executive Directors present the Group in place and actions taken to date.
The Group has many consultation forums, with trade unions, works councils and other employee Learning and development groups involved where appropriate.
We have made some solid progress with our learning and development agenda, including the relaunch of My Career, a Human rights development programme, which includes career workshops Our respect for human rights is implicit in our employment in local languages and virtual learning opportunities.
We want practices: the rights of every employee are respected and to attract, develop and retain a diverse workforce, as well as every employee is treated with dignity and consideration.
Our drive a culture where people feel able to give their best, and employment practices are designed to attract, retain, motivate where their views, opinions and talents are respected.
Our and train people and to respect their rights.
We do not use aim is to embed diversity and inclusion within the business: child labour in line with Minimum Age Convention, nor do we having a diverse and inclusive organisation plays a key part in use forced labour.
We recognise freedom of association by enabling us to become a Great Place to Work.
permitting our employees to establish and join organisations During 2014, we have focused on three main elements: of their own choosing without our permission, and we recognise collective bargaining where required by local laws.
t Embedding Inclusive Leadership workshops Our Embedding Inclusive Leadership workshops aim to Gender diversity across our business educate our people managers and leaders and help them understand that we all have unconscious bias, which can be seen in recruitment, delegation and promotion decisions.
During this year 65% of the global senior management team have participated in the workshops.
t Reverse mentoring Our reverse mentoring programme matches mentors and mentees who are different from each other, e. g. different generations, functions, genders, geographies and nationalities.
Both the mentor and mentee challenge their own assumptions about people and learn what life is like for someone who is different from them.
About 31% of our global senior management team are now involved as Female Senior Managers 135 Female Employess 3,295 mentors.
Male Senior Managers 208 Male Employess 2,968 Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 37 Our Health and Safety In 2014, the second year of our five year health and safety We recognise health and safety as key for the continued strategy, our key areas of focus have been: economic success and sustainable future of the business.
Our core objective is to achieve long-term cultural change, t Professional advice and support: a network of health and promoting good practice and behaviours amongst our safety professionals and forums within the business able to employees.
With 17 distribution centres across the world, support the local teams with advice and guidance.
t Senior management support: several members of the GEC chair regional health and safety forums, taking the lead to Key achievements this year have been: role model support for health and safety.
t A significant year-on-year reduction in the Lost Time t Training: all employees have attended behavioural safety Accident rate number of lost time accidents per 200,000 training and, where necessary, high levels of vocational hours worked from 0.60 in 2013 to 0.42 in 2014.
This rate training are also provided in the form of first aid, mechanical was over 1.0 as recently as 2011. handling equipment operator training, fire safety and t The number of lost time accidents has dropped 30% from manual handling.
This shows a reduction of 65% t Learning and communication: learning from events and over the last three years.
taking a proactive preventative approach with actions t A 60% reduction in the number of days lost due to logged and tracked at a global level and communicated to accidents from 405 in 2013 to 151 in 2014. the business.
t There were 8,247 near misses reported in 2014, compared t Risk management: all areas of the business are required to with 4,421 in 2013, demonstrating an improvement in have an established risk management structure, supported employee awareness and reporting.
by safety improvement plans, which allows proactive planning and budgeting.
The total number of recorded accidents has increased slightly this year, from 532 in 2013 to 547 in 2014.
This is due in part In recognition of our health and safety success over this to recording a greater variety of accidents, which now include year, we have been granted the Society for the Prevention minor, lost time and road traffic accidents.
It is also due to of Accidents RoSPA Gold Award for Occupational Health the introduction of Our Performance across Operations, an and Safety, demonstrating an upward trend from Silver last initiative to encourage proactive reporting throughout our year and Bronze the year before.
We have also received a warehouses.
distinction in the British Safety Councils International Safety Awards 2014, having scored 60 out of 60 for our commitment Health and safety has for the last two years been the highest to the health, safety and well-being of our people.
scoring section of the global employee engagement survey.
We continue to use behavioural safety as a key tool to change and adapt our employees attitudes and approach to health and safety.
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 38 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our Environment The Electrocomponents environmental policy commits the Group to identifying and managing the environmental impacts associated with its business activities, with the objective of increasing efficiency and reducing the Groups environmental impacts per unit of sales.
Environmental performance is managed through a Group-wide reporting and measurement process.
The scope and completeness of the process has been an important factor in the Groups recognition by the Corporate Knights Global 100 list of sustainable corporations, for eight out of the last ten years.
From this year we report environmental performance on a financial year FY basis rather than by calendar year CY.
This is now in line with Group financial reporting and the FY and CY reports are comparable as they both cover a 12 month period.
Energy consumption and carbon emissions Emissions Total Emissions CO e Tonnes Energy Intensity Tonnes CO m sales 2 2 FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 1,2, 3 CO e due to premises energy use 18,636 19,314 18,947 21,524 14.7 15.6 15.1 18.9 2 1.
CO2 equivalent from all energy sources including country specific CO2 factors for electricity and with 100% renewable electricity reported at zero kg CO2 per kWh.
Excludes a number of smaller premises where energy costs and consumption are included in lease costs.
KPIs are on a constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology and in emissions factors.
Our primary direct energy usage and related CO emissions is in our premises and operational infrastructure and as sales 2 increase, our energy efficiency will improve.
Energy reductions and the use of green energy also help reduce emissions.
As most energy use is related to heating and cooling, our energy related performance is subject to the effects of climatic variations.
We work closely with our transport providers to manage the cost and efficiency of our third party transport arrangements.
CO e emissions, due to energy use in our premises, were reduced by 3.5% in FY2014.
Taking into account the growth in sales 2 between the two 12-month periods, CO e emissions intensity was down 5.8% in FY2014.
The most significant emissions 2 reductions were achieved in the UK where a combination of energy saving measures and lower use for space heating reduced emissions by over 350 tonnes and in Germany where a change to 100% renewable electricity reduced reported emissions by some 300 tonnes.
Efficiency improvements are ongoing across our facilities, including investment in energy efficient lighting systems and the installation of LED and fluorescent tube lighting linked to movement sensors to replace older, less efficient lighting systems.
Following the installation of energy management systems across the UK, plans are underway to extend this technology to principal sites in Europe.
This will enable the more efficient control of heating and air conditioning systems, reducing energy consumption, CO emissions and costs, and providing real time information on energy usage.
2 The Group has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2008 and in the 2013 CDP FTSE 350 Report was rated as joint top in its reporting category, achieving its highest disclosure and performance scores to date.
KPIs are on a constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology, and including hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
Our primary waste streams include card, paper, wood and plastics, much of which is recycled, and general commercial waste from our operations.
Waste intensity was down by 9.2%in FY2014.
In absolute terms, waste tonnage was reduced by 7% in FY2014.
The proportion of total waste recycled was constant in the year at 79% despite the reduction in total waste.
Waste reduction initiatives at sites across the Group are ongoing.
These include the proactive reduction and management of waste streams with waste recycled or diverted from landfill to incineration and energy recovery where possible.
For example, in the UK total waste is down by 27% since CY2010 with waste to landfill reduced from 30% of the total in CY2010 to 3% in FY2014.
Over the same period the proportion of total waste recycled is up from 69% to 79% with an additional 16% of total waste being diverted to energy recovery incineration.
The use of reusable replenishment transit packaging, and the inclusion of supplier contractual clauses for the buyback of surplus and obsolete products has helped to reduce waste quantities.
A free lamp collection and recycling initiative for UK customers was recognised in the Lux Awards 2013 with a highly commended honour.
The service collected and recycled over 10 tonnes of redundant lamps.
Our UK team also developed an Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 39 innovative project, comprising a new LED unit and a revolutionary service model, that encourages the purchase of energyefficient lighting whilst also eradicating all waste at the end of the products life.
This project won the Environment Product Service Award at the Environment and Energy Awards 2014 and will be rolled out across the Group over the next three years.
Packaging and paper Packaging Tonnes Packaging per Line Ordered kg m ordered FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 Packaging consumed 4,672 5,473 5,497 4,959 0.21 0.24 0.24 0.23 Packaging consumption was reduced by 14.6% and packaging use per line ordered was down by 11.8% in FY2014.
The main improvements in packaging use were in North America and in the UK, where the adoption of double wall cardboard in place of tri-wall reduced packaging use per line ordered.
We continue to review our packaging and to train packaging teams on the importance of the efficient use of materials in preparing customer orders whilst ensuring the effective protection of customer orders when in transit.
The packaging report is also influenced by the timing of packaging purchases and supplier deliveries.
We work closely with our pulp and paper suppliers and printers to reduce the carbon footprint of our catalogue which is now reprinted every two years.
The pulp for the catalogues is sourced from either Sustainable Forestry Initiative or PEFC accredited forest management schemes, with printing carried out in ISO 14001:2004 certificated facilities.
Water consumption 3 3 Water Use m Water Use Per Employees m head FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 FY2014 CY2012 CY2011 CY2010 Total water use 47,511 54,055 53,936 48,745 7.6 8.8 8.9 9.0 Water is used primarily for domestic and office uses, with performance assessed on the basis of consumption per employee.
Use is also influenced by the testing and maintenance of fire protection systems and irrigation requirements.
Water conservation measures include awareness campaigns and proactive maintenance regimes to prevent or rectify leakage.
Water use per employee was down by 12.7% and absolute water use was reduced by 12.1% in FY2014.
Specific water saving initiatives at sites in France, Australia and the UK helped to drive the improved performance in FY2014.
Greenhouse gas emissions disclosures In addition to the CO e emissions due to premises energy use, which are reported on page 38, the Companies Act 2006 2 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 requires the Group to also report emissions due to the fuel used in company vehicles, fugitive emissions and other sources.
The report below includes the material emission sources from the operations and activities covered by the Groups financial statements.
FY2014 Tonnes CO e 2 Emissions from combustion of fuels and operation of facilities: Combustion of fossil fuels 6,116 # Operation of facilities, including fugitive emissions 89 Electricity purchased for own consumption: Purchased electricity 14,847 Intensity measurement CO e due to premises energy use per m revenue 14.7 2 Total GHGs per m revenue 16.6 Data is for the financial year as updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
Includes emissions of 2,326 tonnes relating to fuel use in company vehicles.
# 89 tonnes of CO e due to fugitive emissions from air conditioning systems.
2 Electricit y from renewable sources at zero CO e per kWh.
Emissions increase by 913 tonnes at grid-average rates.
2 The Group uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocol with emission factors for standard grid electricity by country from the International Energy Agency and other factors as published by the UK Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in order to calculate the CO e emissions included in this report.
2 The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 22 May 2014.
By order of the Board Ian Mason Group Chief Executive ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 40 Strategy in Action Helping our customers bring products to market more rapidly DesignSpark Mechanical achieves record downloads DesignSpark, our online design community, provides engineers worldwide with trusted and reliable technical information and resources.
Boasting around 250,000 users since 3D CAD tools and allows prototypes to be its launch in 2010, DesignSpark allows built easily with a 3D printer.
engineers to connect with partners, exchange ideas and contribute reviews.
With DesignSpark providing access Its popularity lies in its ability to help to an extensive library of 3D models, engineers to do their jobs more easily.
DesignSpark Mechanical enables engineers to bring products to market One of the key resources DesignSpark more rapidly.
Its significance was offers is a suite of free design tools that underlined in the first 50 days following enable engineers to innovate.
Our first launch when it registered over 100,000 was DesignSpark PCB, an award-winning downloads.
software packed with time-saving features for electronics design.
It has become the The impact of these tools is demonstrated tool of choice for design collaboration by their use in curriculums in a number across the world.
of institutions around the world.
Republic Polytechnic in Singapore, for example, In September 2013, we launched has set up an electronic product design DesignSpark Mechanical, our revolutionary lab equipped with the tools, and has design software that enables engineers to developed a course module based on quickly create and modify sophisticated 3D DesignSpark PCB to teach PCB design, designs.
The easy-to-use tool overcomes a fundamental skill for all electrical and the prohibitive costs and considerable electronics students.
learning time associated with traditional Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 41 Pictured: The electronic product design lab at Republic Polytechnic in Singapore.
