Corporate responsibility report Introduction Elementis corporate Elementis recognises that responsibility framework corporate responsibility CR is a fundamental part of the Business conduct Health Environment and Companys business activities, and ethics and safety community which is why the Chief Executive is responsible at Board level People and Commitment Commitment UU UU UU for all CR matters.
compliance Performance Performance UU UU programme Initiatives Impact UU Equal Emissions UU opportunity Energy and and diversity water use Labour and Waste UU fundamental Initiatives UU human rights Product UU Customers, stewardship UU suppliers and Community UU supply chain engagement Since September 2009 the Company has been a member of the Business conduct and ethics FTSE4Good index, a leading global responsible investment index, which People demonstrates the Companys commitment to CR and that its activities It is our people who remain our most valuable asset and are a key and aspirations are aligned with the principles of the UN Global Compact differentiator between Elementis and its competitors.
The long term success on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
Above is an of the Group depends on the passion, attitude, commitment and work illustration of the Companys CR framework.
ethic of all our employees around the world.
During 2014, Elementis achieved a silver rating from EcoVadis which is Elementis sets high expectations for all its global employees and these are a leading global sustainability accreditation programme for supply chain set out in the Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics the Code partners.
The rating puts Elementis in the upper quartile of 150 participants of Conduct.
The Code of Conduct is supplemented by policies, processes in the benchmark.
Assessments in the programme ranged from HSE and guidelines covering a wide range of compliance matters, such as to employment and human rights, as well as anti-bribery and corruption anti-bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, fair business practices and policies and wider business, supply chain and procurement practices.
compliance with local laws and regulations.
Comprehensive whistleblowing procedures are supported by an anti-retaliation policy.
All employees are In addition, Elementis received 1 of only 4 inaugural UK awards made required to undertake training on the Code of Conduct and certify that they by the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
The CDP works with some understand and agree to be bound by its provisions.
The Board and of the largest corporations in the world to help them ensure that an effective management team consider the Code of Conduct to be critical to the carbon emissions reductions strategy is made integral to their businesses.
Groups continuing success and in how it meets its corporate responsibilities.
The benchmarking last year was split into 10 sectors and Elementis was categorised in the materials sector with 23 other companies including Our training programme on the Code of Conduct is translated into six mining and chemicals companies.
Our responses, which were analysed languages and supported with interactive online training to help employees by First Carbon Solutions as part of the CDP verification process, stay up to date with their responsibilities under the Code of Conduct.
resulted in a disclosure score of 89 with a performance band of B, placing us overall in 7th position out of 24 companies.
Policies are updated as necessary and new ones implemented to take account of the changing business environment with associated training Elementis continues to participate in the Repasack programme which provided.
In 2014, a number of policies were updated including the Global takes back and recycles used paper bags from trade and industry.
Our anti-corruption policy and a new Group computer usage standard participation in 2013 was certified last year to have saved approximately incorporating a new social media policy and revised information security 13,000 kg of resources.
In addition, over 1,000 kg of greenhouse gas policy.
Online training on the information security policy was delivered to emissions were avoided.
20 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Diversity We have continued to address questions from our customers on social Elementis continues to be fully committed to equality of opportunity.
responsibility and environmental awareness programmes and have Our policy of non-discrimination applies throughout the Group and to successfully completed a number of surveys and informal audits.
As well as all aspects of our employment practices, except as it relates to a persons our participation in the EcoVadis programme, we became a member of the ability or potential in relation to the needs of a job.
A summary of our Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO and our facility in Livingston, employment policies appears on page 55 of the Directors report.
Our Scotland, achieved the rigorous standards required to be certified to handle total workforce including contractors and temporary workers numbers in palm oil derivatives via an audited mass balance system, whereby a specific excess of 1,300 in three regions 41 per cent in the Americas, 25 per cent in volume of sustainable palm oil derivatives enters the supply chain and is Europe and 34 per cent in Asia.
In terms of gender diversity, out of our total traced throughout.
workforce excluding contractors and temporary workers as at the year end, 993 were male 76per cent and 314 were female 24 per cent.
Of these Our membership of RSPO means Elementis is committed to protecting and female employees, 45 14per cent held managerial positions and 39 conserving the rich biodiversity found in tropical palm forests by using palm 12 per cent held an executive management position within the four tiers oil sourced from sustainable palm plantations that are responsible and below Board level.
At Board level 6directors were male and 1 was female responsive to the issues of soil degradation, biodiversity, local peoples and at senior manager level as defined under the prescribed regulations and land rights.
The Group does not consider targets or quotas to be appropriate for increasing the percentage of women in management The Livingston facility, which is the primary manufacturing site for our positions, although it recognises the benefit of having women represented Personal care business also achieved Good Manufacturing Practice 2012 in all layers of management.
Staff turnover across the Group for 2014 was certification last year from the European Federation for Cosmetic Ingredients 7.0 per cent 2013: 6.4percent restated.
In achieving the EFfCI certification Elementis is affirming our commitment to quality, safety and innovation for the personal care industry.
Human rights Elementis supports the principles of the UN Global Compact which includes Training worldwide for all procurement members continues to ensure those on fundamental human rights.
These are applied in our employment compliance and adherence to our Purchasing Code of Practice and policies as well as to our business practices in relation to customers and anti-corruption policy.
Suppliers are likewise expected to affirm their suppliers, such as the right to privacy, safety and to be treated fairly, with conformity to international labour laws, social and environmental responsible dignity and respect.
Our employment and business practices are supported legislation and best practices.
Conflict minerals continue to be absent by Group policies, including our anti-harassment policy and grievance from our supply chain.
procedures, and our Code of Conduct.
Elementis prohibits the use of child and forced labour and is committed to the principles of freedom of Use of natural products within our supply chain increased from $17.1 million association, equality of treatment and non-discrimination.
Over 40 per cent in 2013 to $17.7 million last year representing a rise of 4per cent on top of our employees are union members and over a fifth are subject to collective of the 8 per cent increase achieved in 2013. bargaining agreements.
Customers, suppliers, supply chain, biodiversity and quality Each of our businesses is customer centric solving immediate problems today and working collaboratively to anticipate future needs.
This intense customer focus keeps our technical service organisation best in class and feeds our innovative product development process with valuable and differentiated programmes.
We track our performance with metrics, for example, the percentage of sales from new products which improved by 32 per cent from 2013 to 2014.
We continue to develop and nurture close customer relationships through our key account business process and participation in trade shows and industry forums, as well as conducting numerous group workshops, training seminars and hosting collaborative laboratory sessions to work with customers on a one on one basis.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 21 Corporate responsibility report continued Health, safety and environment As well as the total number of recordable and LTAs, the Group uses The health and safety of our employees, contractors and visitors, as well the overall recordable incident rate as a performance indicator.
The total as the preservation of the environment, remains a key area of focus for the recordable incident rate in 2014 was 0.92 per 200,000 hours worked 2013: Board and management.
Biodiversity is protected wherever possible by 0.95.
Within the chemical industry, this sustained performance of Elementis reducing the potential for significant damage to sensitive species, habitats is comparable to companies that are generally viewed as having industry and ecosystems.
The Group also recognises a shared responsibility globally best safety performance based on data for the American Chemistry for conserving natural resources and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Council Responsible Care members, who achieved 0.73 in 2013, and is significantly better than the general chemical industry in the US 2.00 in 2013 The Groups health, safety, and environmental HSE management based on the latest data available from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
programmes conform to international standards and include documented policy and procedures, internal and external auditing, risk assessments, Recordable incident rate management systems for employee and contractor training, incident Recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked investigation and response, management of change, emergency planning and risk mitigation.
The effectiveness of these programmes, as well as 3 overall performance, is continually evaluated through management reviews to ensure they are current with regulatory requirements and industry 2 best practices.
1 Health and safety performance The Groups priority is to strive to eliminate accidents and injuries within the workplace.
We seek to achieve this by maintaining our strong focus 0 on and commitment to safety design, a safe environment, setting and 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 communicating safety standards, training, coaching safe behaviours Key and developing a safety culture.
Elementis American Chemistry Council Responsible Care The Groups priority is to strive to eliminate accidents and injuries within US chemical industry 2013 is latest data available for ACC and US chemical the workplace.
We seek to achieve this by maintaining our strong focus on and commitment to safety design, a safe environment, setting and communicating safety standards, training, coaching safe behaviours Elementis applies the same high safety standards to on-site contractors and developing a safety culture.
who are required to comply with the same safety practices and procedures expected of our employees.
In 2014, contractors suffered only 1 recordable One of our additive reactors was impacted by an operating incident which injury 2013: 5 across all manufacturing locations which equated to an resulted in some isolated equipment damage.
The engineering and safety incident rate of 0.49 per 200,000 hours worked 2013: 2.35. systems operated according to plan and there were no injuries.
A number of enhanced safety initiatives were implemented following the incident and Health and safety initiatives the HSE leadership team has used the experience as a learning opportunity During 2014, our health and safety leadership team has continued to to further improve our process safety management controls.
focus on reducing the risks associated with handling and manufacturing hazardous chemicals by promoting the use of industry recognised process The Group uses recordable incidents as its principal measure of safety safety programmes.
These include process hazard analysis PHA and performance.
Recordable incidents as defined by the US Occupational mechanical integrity inspections and are conducted as a predictive and Safety & Health Administration are basically work related injuries and preventative exercise to reduce the likelihood of incidents.
A formal illnesses that require medical treatment beyond first aid, work restrictions procedure for incident reporting and investigation including near miss to normal duties or time away from work.
To monitor performance and reporting exists and is a key management tool used for recognising unsafe trends among more serious injuries and illnesses, the Group also records conditions and behaviours, and for communicating globally any investigative lost time accidents LTAs that require greater than 3 days away from work findings and corrective actions.
In addition, site leadership communicates not including the day of incident.
The number of recordable incidents across current safety concerns and reinforces commitment to safety by a variety the Group in 2014 was 12 2013: 12.
Of the 12 recordable incidents only of means.
A good example is through safety stand-downs meetings 2 required days away from work greater than 3 days 2012: 3.
Of particular where employees and management take time during the workday to note is our hectorite mine in Southern California which now has an address pertinent safety issues.
In these stand-downs, anyone can raise outstanding record of 23 years without a LTA and 10 years without a a safety concern.
The issues are discussed and site management and recordable incident.
Our facility in Corpus Christi, Texas, has also achieved employees then work collaboratively to develop appropriate action plans.
the distinction of reaching 11 years without a recordable incident.
22 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Environmental performance Examples of 2014 energy initiatives that have improved Minimising the impact of our operations on the environment, complying energy efficiency with all applicable laws and contributing to a more sustainable future Newberry Springs, California Replacement of a boiler with a high remain the focus of our efforts.
efficiency unit saving 35 per cent of gas used for heating water.
Elementis records and categorises environmental incidents into tiers East Windsor, New Jersey Implementation of a building optimisation based on the severity or actions taken by regulatory authorities.
Tier 3 system in the technical centre and management headquarters.
Energy incidents are those that have an impact on the environment and require usage is monitored throughout the building and linked to an energy reporting to an external authority and where enforcement action is likely.
management system, which will reduce energy costs through a rapid Tier 2 incidents have a minor impact and require notification but are likely response to demand programme.
to result in minimal or no action by the authorities.
Tier 1 incidents require no external reporting and are recorded internally and investigated so that Livingston, Scotland Upgrade of existing insulation within the continual improvements can be made to reduce the likelihood of future manufacturing process reducing thermal losses, as well as replacing two Tier 2 and Tier 3 incidents.
air compressors with new units that are approximately 10 per cent more energy efficient.
In 2014, Elementis had 1 Tier 3 and 0 Tier 2 incidents 2013: 0 Tier 3 and Tier 2.
The reason for classifying the 2014 incident as Tier 3 was due Hsinchu, Taiwan Replacement of a boiler with a higher efficiency unit.
to the omission of the waste water treatment tanks from the environmental operating permit at our site in Charleston, West Virginia.
The site was Songjiang, China Installation of internal cooling coils in two reactors issued a consent order by the West Virginia Department of Environmental to improve process efficiency by reducing cooling time.
Protection requiring the addition of the tanks to the permit.
Delden, Netherlands Continuation of a 4 year energy efficiency initiative.
Environmental impact Current improvements made include to process ventilation and through Elementis monitors key environmental statistics for each manufacturing an operational excellence initiative.
In 2015, the nitrogen compressor unit facility.
Water and energy consumption, air emissions, effluent discharges will be replaced and a planned investment in the boiler plant room in the and solid waste disposal will all vary according to production output next 2years will bring substantial energy savings.
which is a function of demand, as well as changes in fuel and production processes.
However, they are also affected by changes in product mix Other global initiatives include replacing old lights with lower energy, and plant efficiencies related to operational requirements, and special longer life LED light emitting diode lights, installing variable speed drives events planned and unplanned.
on large electric motors, and improved operating practices to minimise the time equipment is idle.
As is standard practice in the chemical industry, emission values may be calculated from energy use or based on representative sampling, as well as continuous monitoring.
Energy consumption Depending on the location and requirements of the manufacturing sites, principal offices and laboratories, Elementis consumes energy from several sources electricity, steam, natural gas, LPG, coal and oil.
For comparison purposes, energy consumption is converted into consistent energy units, Gigajoules GJ.
Elementis seeks wherever practicable to improve its energy efficiency in the plant and equipment used as illustrated in the examples of energy saving initiatives described below.
Energy consumption is shown below.
Energy consumption 2014 2013 2012 Per Per Per Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of 000s production 000s production 000s production Energy consumed GJ 5,046 12.1 5,102 13.0 4,910 12.9 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 23 Corporate responsibility report continued Greenhouse gas emissions Elementis reports greenhouse gas GHG emissions for its global operations as Scope 1 and Scope 2 according to the requirements of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The principal GHG due to operations at Elementis locations is carbon dioxide.
GHG emissions have been converted into carbon dioxide equivalent CO e using official data provided by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
GHG emissions are reported for all 2 18manufacturing sites, the principal offices and laboratories, as well as a site undergoing closure procedures in Eaglescliffe, UK.
A number of much smaller sales offices have been excluded because the level of CO e emissions was deemed not to make a material contribution to the total.
2 Elementis is providing 2intensity ratios: tonnes CO e per tonne of production and tonnes CO e per kWh of energy consumed.
Over a period of years 2 2 both of these indicators should give a reliable indication of energy efficiency improvements including cleaner fuels consumed.
The energy reduction programmes at the manufacturing sites see above should lead to a reduction in GHG emissions.
These ratios are subject to variations due to changes in the mix of products manufactured, volumes and energy efficiency improvements.
GHG emissions are shown below.
Greenhouse gas emissions Current reporting period 2014 Prior year and base year 2013 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 221,420 Tonnes CO e 221,076 Tonnes CO e 2 2 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 82,265 Tonnes CO e 89,500 Tonnes CO e 2 2 TOTAL Scopes 1 & 2 303,685 Tonnes CO e 310,576 Tonnes CO e 2 2 Intensity ratio: tonnes CO e tonne production t t 0.73 t t 0.77 t t 2 Supplementary intensity ratio: kg CO e kWh energy consumed 0.27 kg kWh 0.27 kg kWh 2 In this second year of reporting, the total Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e Water consumption 2 emissions decreased by 6,891 tonnes CO e. The total for Scope 1 Water is a valuable resource and the Company recognises the global 2 emissions in 2014 was effectively unchanged, however, the year on year need to conserve it.
Water consumption is minimised where possible production output increased, giving a Scope 1 intensity ratio of 0.53 by treatment and recycling.
tonnes CO e per tonne of production 2013: 0.55 t t. The total Scope 2 2 emissions reduced by 8 per cent largely as a result of our Livingston Water consumption is related to production output, product mix, plant facility changing its purchasing of electricity such that 100 per cent was utilisation and cleaning activities.
The net result in 2014 was a 5 per cent from renewable sources mostly hydro and wind energy.
Elementis has reduction see below.
incorporated this saving of over 4,000 tonnes CO e in the Scope 2 2 emissions shown above.
Water consumption 2014 2013 2012 The Group continues to use cleaner energy sources such as natural gas Per Per Per which represented almost 95 per cent of energy required for combustion Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of with coal being just under 5 per cent.
A significant change planned for 000s production 000s production 000s production 2015 is in China where our organoclay sites at Changxing and Anji will Water switch from using coal to biomass comprising renewable organic consumed materials, such as bamboo and wood powder, and combustible waste 3 m 1,811 7.08 1,908 7.48 1,928 7.97 as an energy source.
Solid and liquid waste Other emissions to air As part of our commitment to sustainable development, Elementis seeks Emissions of the oxides of sulphur and nitrogen and volatile organic to reduce the quantity of all types of waste.
The first concern is to reduce compounds VOCs arising from the Groups operations are controlled the amount of waste that is classed as hazardous.
Beyond that nonto comply with regulatory permits.
As the volumes are not considered hazardous waste is minimised and recycled.
Non-hazardous waste is to be significant, they are not reported separately here.
Any emission predominantly the inert residue from the chromate kiln operations, which to air above regulatory permitted levels would be reported as an is deposited in permitted impoundments and licenced landfill sites environmental incident.
adjacent to the manufacturing facilities.
Discharges to water Hazardous waste was reduced in 2014 see table opposite.
A particular The Groups production activity generates process effluent that is reason for the lower figure in 2014 was that improved maintenance routinely tested to ensure that the quality meets strict permit limits prior processes in Chromium resulted in a reduction in kiln refractory to discharge.
Typical analysis includes chemical and biological oxygen replacements in the year.
demand and total suspended solids.
The volumes of these discharges are not considered to be significant and are not reported here.
However, any discharge to water above regulatory permitted levels would be reported as an environmental incident.
24 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Waste disposal EU REACh regulations will require a major registration effort up to 2018 with significantly more substances being registered than were seen in the 2014 2013 2012 combined 2010 and 2013 REACh registration cycles.
In 2014, the Group Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Per 1,000 began its programme to comply with the 2018 EU REACh cycle of Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of registration in order to optimise resources and control costs while 000s production 000s production 000s production ensuring full compliance by the June 2018 deadline.
Hazardous waste During 2014, the Group began to provide GHS compliant safety data disposed sheets and labels for US products and will continue this programme tonnes 0.79 3.09 0.93 3.64 1.70 7.01 into 2015 to meet the 1 June 2015 OSHA deadline.
In addition, a more Nonrobust internal product stewardship audit programme, begun in 2013, hazardous was fully integrated across our European businesses in 2014.
This audit waste programme will be further extended to our Asia operations in 2015. disposed tonnes 104 405 105 410 104 430 The Group has also expanded its enhanced export control management system to its European business last year, to ensure compliance with The gangue clay from the hectorite mine the unwanted material that is the extensive and strict export regulations of both the US and EU.
associated with the hectorite clay provides a good example of recycling This programme is being extended to our Asia operations in 2015. and reducing the impact on land.
Residual clay is recovered from the Key components of this system include strong internal written policies, discharge water and blended back into the process with the hectorite proactive external auditing of the Groups freight forwarders and export ore feedstock.
Tailings with minor clay content are sold for use as liner for brokers, monitoring of US and EU trade sanctions and careful review recreation ponds, fish rearing lakes and some agricultural applications.
of all new customers against both US and EU denied parties lists.
Selling overburden and optimising stockpile height has the additional benefit of reducing the overall area impacted at the mine.
The Livingston site has A growing component of our product stewardship programme has taken some of this waste hectorite clay and supplied it for agricultural use been to focus on and support other areas of our business in relation to adjust soil pH and waste bentonite clay as a landfill liner.
As mentioned above, we have been working 2organoclay sites in China are planning to recycle clay from residue.
in partnership with organisations such as EcoVadis and RSPO to assess the sustainability of our supply chain.
R&D and sustainability Our R&D efforts continue to support and contribute to a more sustainable Community future with the global R&D team driving its research towards: Our community programme remains centred on encouraging and supporting employees to be active in their communities through volunteer Reduction in the use of materials that contribute to greenhouse gases.
The Group understands the need to work with local Development of new biodegradable products for use in aqueous communities and be a responsible neighbour.
Expanded use of bio-based materials in our products.
Approval of Strategic report Facilitating the migration of all coatings to aqueous solutions from The Strategic report comprises the following sections: Chairmans solvent based systems.
statement, Group Chief Executives overview, Our objectives, strategies and business model, Our businesses, Finance report incorporating The development and introduction of new polymers for rheological Key performance indicators and the Risk management report and additives used in decorative coatings have allowed for use of these Corporate responsibility report which incorporates information relating additives at much lower levels than current market standards.
These to greenhouse gas emissions required to be included in the Directors high efficiency products effectively contribute to the reduced dependence report.
The Strategic report was approved by the Board and has been in the coatings industry on petroleum derivatives.
signed on its behalf by: Further reduction in dependence on petroleum derivatives was achieved through the implementation of organic solvent recycling in new processes.
New products that incorporate high levels of bio-based ingredients were also introduced in our Personal care and Surfactants product lines.
Brian Taylorson Finance Director Product stewardship 24 February 2015 Ensuring our products are safe for intended use, transport and to people and the environment throughout the products entire life cycle remains a priority for Elementis, as well as contributing to a more sustainable future.
The Groups activities in 2014 continued to be centred on complying with the global REACh regulatory requirements for our products during 2014, as well as the United Nations GHS Globally Harmonised System hazard communications standard which continues to be implemented around the world.
The Group continued to invest resources in its regulatory compliance software system, the Wercs, which helps to automate compliance and prepare the business for further implementation of GHS as it and other new REACh regulations proliferate across the globe.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 25
