Corporate Social Responsibility It is an important duty to operate a business in an ethical Pub is The Hub and responsible manner and manage those responsibilities We continue to support the effectively.
In continuing to evolve and develop our Corporate philosophy and ethos of The Social Responsibility CSR agenda we recognise that it can Prince of Waless Pub is The play a major part in leading and influencing our publicans as Hub campaign, encouraging well as our own people and operations.
rural publicans to diversify and deliver a wide range of services to the communities they This report does not contain information about any policies serve.
This will help to secure the longer term success of the of the Group in relation to human rights issues since it is pub and keep it at the heart of the local community.
A number not considered necessary for an understanding of the of our publicans have developed a range of community development, performance or position of the Groups services including post offices and village shops.
Supporting industry trade bodies and We have continued to make progress associations in this area during the year, which has We support a number of key trade bodies and associations been recognised by our continued including the BBPA, the leading body representing Britains inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index which brewers and pub companies who strive to promote and protect is designed to objectively measure the one of the nations most iconic and important industries.
We performance of companies that meet work with the Federation of Licensed Victuallers Associations globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
FLVA, an organisation looking after the business interests of Our CSR delivery framework is based on five strategic drivers self-employed licensees in the licensed trade.
The BII is the that ensure we make a real and sustainable difference to our professional body for the licensed retail sector with charitable people and publicans and the communities in which our pubs status and a remit to raise professional standards.
These drivers are community, people, publicans, closely with the BII on a variety of initiatives that support responsible retailing and environment.
our publicans and the industry: we assist all new Enterprise publicans with their subscription to the BII.
Community Owning and letting pubs throughout England and Wales means that our business can affect local communities in terms of amenity and employment opportunities.
A driver in the success of publicans will be how they run their businesses which must be sensitive to local issues, communities Community Heroes and customers.
Pubs should provide a friendly, safe and Our Community Heroes Awards are now in their third year and controlled environment, and make a positive contribution to were created to honour those publicans who make inspiring local communities.
contributions to their local community.
The awards are about We work with publicans, local authorities and other local going above and beyond the call of duty, having a positive community interest groups to ensure that licensing hours and impact at the heart of the community and giving recognition to conditions attached to pub premises licenses are appropriate our publicans who make a real and significant difference to the and take account of the opportunities and interests of all community they serve.
Local initiatives dont have to be big: parties.
Through our membership of the British Beer and they just have to be positive.
Activities such as championing Pub Association BBPA, we engage with Government local football teams, showcasing local art, raising money for departments within the Home Office and the Department for charity or offering a meeting space to local committees, are all Culture, Media & Sport, to promote understanding of, and great examples of going the extra mile.
compliance with, the licensing regime.
Each of the pubs we own is unique and our publicans aim to provide a distinctive service to attract a broad range of customers and community groups.
They aim to create a congenial atmosphere and to promote the prevention of crime and disorder, the preservation of public safety, prevention of public nuisance and protection of children from harm and must operate so that commercial initiatives do not override the core values.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 15 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Community Heroes winners This is a long-term project for the Company and we are People investing 1 million over a ten year period to fund our Employee engagement survey Community Heroes Awards.
They celebrate the contribution Our people are key to the success of the business.
We value of our publicans who have such an impact on the fabric and the contribution of each and every one of our employees.
All of the many applicants We want to create an inspiring working environment where make a significant, positive impact on the communities they everyone is engaged and motivated.
The national annual award winner receives 10,000 to a Group wide employee engagement survey, My Opinion.
spend on local initiatives with the other 17 regional finalists With an outstanding 92% response rate, the survey each receiving 5,000 towards local causes and activities of concluded that four out of five of our employees are highly their choice.
Adrian Emmett, publican of the Lion in Treorchy, engaged in their work and the business.
The more detailed was the 2014 National Award winner, receiving 10,000 results have been shared throughout the business and the to continue his extraordinary programme of community feedback is being used to inform our people strategy.
The judges were particularly impressed with Adrian, number of improvement initiatives are already well under who engages the community with an active programme of way as a result of the survey and our intention is to undertake initiatives throughout the year such as the 2014 summer the survey again next year to measure the year on year music festival, which attracted around 2,000 people and improvement.
raised enough money to buy iPads for the local primary Health and wellbeing school.
We encourage our people to adopt a healthy lifestyle.
Charity Enterprise offers a flexible benefits scheme to members of In July 2014 around 450 staff, including benefits such as the cycle to work scheme, of our pubs supported leisure club membership, private medical and dental Cancer Research UKs first insurance, flexible holiday benefits, a health screening ever national fundraising service and a confidential employee assistance programme.
BBQ weekend, electing to Employment policies donate 10% of their food The Groups employment policies and procedures are sales from the event to Cancer Research UK.
described in detail in its staff handbook, which is available to The Group operates a Charity Committee consisting of all employees on our intranet.
This handbook takes account employee representatives from each department.
The role of relevant employment legislation and best practice.
New of the committee is to organise a number of fund raising policies, procedures and related training are developed activities for both local and national charities throughout the as required.
The Groups anti-bribery and corruption code year, along with agreeing Enterprise donations to employees of conduct sets out how Group employees, publicans and undertaking charitable activities.
suppliers must act to ensure that our zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption is upheld.
16 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Diversity In recognition of our employment policies, we have attained We are committed to equal opportunities and the creation the prestigious accolade of an Investors In People Champion.
of an entirely non-discriminatory working environment.
The Publicans aim of our diversity policy is to ensure that no job applicant In line with the entire industry, we are totally committed to or employee receives less favourable treatment because of, fair, transparent and lawful dealing with our publicans.
We amongst other matters, gender, marital status, race, age, have a Code of Practice under which we manage relationships sexual preference, religion, belief or disability.
All decisions with publicans, arrange training to support our publicans and are based on the merits of the individual concerned.
The to develop business potential.
Group is dedicated to undertaking its business operations in a way which respects individual human rights, treats Business support and training We want to ensure individuals with dignity and allows freedom of association.
new publicans are as prepared as possible to run their new pub.
We require all new publicans to complete the We give full consideration to applications for employment from Pre-Entry Awareness Training course run by the BII.
We disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be have an industry leading induction programme called adequately fulfilled by people with disabilities.
We endeavour 100 Days to offer intensive help and support to our new to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable retraining publicans.
All our publicans can also benefit from free for, any employee who becomes disabled during their business development and training courses.
employment as well as providing training, career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Best practice We are committed to encouraging all our publicans to support the communities they serve.
At 30 September 2014 the number of employees was as follows: Mentoring We have introduced a publican mentoring service for publicans who need additional help and support Employees Male Female to establish their business.
This invaluable support is Directors 6 provided by some of our most experienced and successful Senior managers 9 7 publicans.
Employees 292 214 Marketing Support Throughout the year we offer our publicans special deals and online ordering promotions.
Gaming Gaming and leisure machines are an integral Training part of the business for many pubs.
We ensure that We are committed to training and developing all of our our publicans are aware of both their legal and social employees.
We place great importance on developing skills responsibilities under the Gambling Act 2005. and potential in order to support our employees, harness talent and drive business performance.
Wherever possible we Drug awareness It is the responsibility of all publicans endeavour to fill our vacancies through internal progression.
to create and maintain a safe, secure and relaxing Training is provided in a number of ways, through on the job environment for their customers.
We support our publicans coaching, formal training courses, e-learning and mentoring.
through free training and help and advice to ensure they E-learning is particularly effective in providing regular training can fulfil these obligations.
and process updates to all our field based employees.
We also Retail standards Our regional managers work with our sponsor a number of employees in studying for appropriate publicans to help them ensure they offer the highest levels professional qualifications.
During the year we are pleased of retail standards to their customers and provide a safe to have been awarded Development Partner status with the and welcoming environment at all times.
As beer is such Chartered Institute of Management Accountants CIMA and an intrinsic part of a pub offer, Enterprise works closely Approved Employer status with the Association of Chartered with Cask Marque an independent body that assesses the Certified Accountants ACCA.
quality of beer served by member pubs.
All-employee share schemes Apprenticeships We have developed an apprenticeship We encourage employee ownership of Company shares programme to support our publicans to promote the through the provision of a Save As You Earn scheme SAYE industry by developing talented team members.
We are in which 165 current employees have entered into savings committed to supporting our industry in attracting and contracts.
In addition, the Company continued to offer an training the right people for the future.
all-employee Share Incentive Plan SIP in December 2013 in which 129 employees purchased shares out of pre-tax income, up to HMRC approved limits, where shares are held in a trust together with an award of matching shares by the Company in accordance with the SIP.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 17 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Proof of age We actively promote various proof of age Responsible retailing schemes to all publicans, providing details of a variety The irresponsible consumption or retailing of alcohol can of schemes to new publicans enabling them to operate have detrimental effects on the social structures of local a scheme in their premises.
We promote the industrys communities.
Publicans, supermarkets, off-licences, the Challenge 21 campaign and have provided campaign Government and the consumer all have responsibilities materials to every pub: towards the promotion and management of a responsible drinking environment.
We seek to be responsible by the National alcohol harm reduction strategy Through following means: membership of the BBPA, we have actively participated in discussions with the Government in the fulfilment of its Drinkaware The Company is a sponsor of the Drinkaware National Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy: Trust.
Drinkaware promotes responsible drinking and finds innovative ways to challenge the national drinking Addressing consequences of alcohol misuse We culture to help reduce alcohol misuse and minimise continue to work proactively with local authorities and alcohol-related harm.
This independent UK-wide charity have made commitments to provide support for schemes is supported by voluntary donations from across the such as Best Bar None and Pubwatch to develop and drinks industry and provides people with accessible, implement policies and strategies which are designed to evidence-based information about alcohol and its effects.
address the potential consequences of alcohol misuse It works alongside the medical community, third sector whilst not penalising the majority of responsible publicans organisations, Government and drinks manufacturers and and their customers: retailers to promote responsible drinking: Drinks range We supply our publicans with an extensive range of products including many low and no alcohol alternatives: Tennant Arms, Skipton, embracing Le Tour fide France 18 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Drink labels We support suppliers who have introduced Environment sensible drinking messages on their products: and We recognise our responsibilities to achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive for Responsibility deal We support the Governments improvement in areas of environmental impact.
Our approach Public Health responsibility deal and encourage our is to work through education, communication and direct publicans to embrace responsible retailing and enjoyment action wherever possible.
of alcohol, especially in the safe and sociable environment of the pub.
We continue to proactively communicate units Packaging waste of alcohol by measure to ensure our publicans can easily Enterprise continues to fulfil its obligations imposed by the inform their consumers.
Packaging Waste Regulations based on all recyclables sold to publicans, an annual total of approximately 2,600 tonnes.
In 2015, Enterprise will change its membership to the SUSTAIN Drinks Packaging Partnership, a pub industry initiative led by the BBPA, which will provide an improved waste packaging consultancy service and lowest cost compliance.
SUSTAIN Health and Safety will also help us prepare for the more complex obligations Enterprise takes the Health and Safety H&S management required for our managed pubs, including food packaging of its employees, publicans and supply chain partners very waste.
To ensure the H&S function is best placed to meet the evolving needs of the business, we operate two H&S Greenhouse gas emissions management groups designed to ensure that every area and We are constantly looking for new ways to improve our function of the organisation has a say in the development of carbon footprint and have put initiatives in place at head relevant systems and procedures.
office in order to achieve this objective.
We continue to utilise passive low-energy lighting, a voltage optimisation unit and Health and Safety Management Group SMG meets minimise the amount of waste which is sent to landfill by on a bi-monthly basis to discuss and debate any day-torecycling more than 75% of the waste produced in head day operational H&S challenges, demands and required office.
We have also installed large screens and polyphones solutions for the organisation.
This includes any changes or in all meeting rooms to increase our capability to hold webbreaches to our policies or procedures which are designed to based meetings and conference calls, aimed at reducing maintain safety with minimum impact on our operational and staff travel.
Cars available to certain employees as part of the Companys Strategic Health and Safety Group SSG meets on a car scheme are currently subject to a CO restriction of 120 2 bi-annual basis to oversee the strategic direction of H&S g km.
This group is specifically tasked with a governance role to discuss the businesss performance, operational targets and objectives in relation to H&S.
Primary Authority PA the Company continues to participate in a Primary Authority Scheme PAS relationship with Westminster City Council.
The PAS arrangement ensures a company trading across council boundaries is guaranteed access to robust and reliable advice in relation to regulatory responsibilities for H&S, which includes subjects such as gas, electricity and asbestos.
The Better Regulation Delivery Office BRDO, an independent unit within the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, oversee the PA approach and ran a number of pilot PA schemes for fire safety.
The Company participated in one of these pilot exercises with London Fire Brigade, which ended in September 2014, and recruited a national fire safety adviser to further improve management and compliance in this area.
The Company is working with the BRDO to identify a suitable PA partner for fire safety going forward.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 19 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Greenhouse gas emissions statement The greenhouse gas GHG emissions statement below provides a summary of Enterprises greenhouse gas carbon emissions from 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014.
It gives a summary of emissions from fuel combustion and the operation of our facilities which include our offices and company cars scope 1, and from our purchased electricity use during the year scope 2.
We have adopted the operational control approach, as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition, 2004.
Therefore, emissions associated with our tenanted pubs were not included in this statement as they are considered to be outside of our operational control.
Assessment parameters Baseline year 2014 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All facilities under operational control were included apart from four managed houses.
Consistency with the financial statements The use of the operational control approach causes a variation to those assets listed in our financial statements.
Our tenanted pubs listed on our Balance Sheet were not under our operational control and are therefore not included in our emissions table.
However, approximately 259 leased vehicles which were under our operational control appear in our emissions table but not in our consolidated financial statements.
Emission factor data source Defra October 2014 Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006 Materiality threshold Materiality was set at group level at 5%, with all facilities estimated to contribute 1% of total emissions included.
Intensity ratio Emissions per full time equivalent employee FTEE 2014 2013 tCO e tCO e FTEE tCO e tCO e FTEE 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel and fleet vehicles 1,403 2.84 1,380 2.94 Operation of facilities refrigerants 6 0.01 9 0.02 1,409 2.85 1,389 2.96 Scope 2 Purchased electricity 481 0.97 450 0.96 Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,890 3.82 1,839 3.92 Group metrics 2014 2013 Full time equivalent employee FTEE 494 470 Intensity ratios gross emissions 2014 2013 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per full time equivalent employee tCO e FTEE 3.82 3.92 2 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Note: Four managed houses were excluded from this statement as they did not meet the materiality threshold.
This represented 5tCO e of Scope 1 emissions and 14tCO e of Scope 2 emissions.
2 2 20 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8
