COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility Priorities goals How do we manage it?
encompasses a broad range Reduce the impact of carbon Set carbon emission targets Established year-on-year environmental Continue with global carbon of philosophies, activities emissions and secure continuous at each operational location improvement objectives reduction initiatives and standards.
improvement in environmental Reduce carbon emissions, Improved utilisation of raw materials Offset emissions when possible performance Essentra considers the issues prevent pollution and improve and energy at principal operating Continue environmental that are material to its business manufacturing efficiency locations excluding acquired sites improvement to ensure retention and seeks to respond to them Implement initiatives to reduce Invested in more flexible of accreditations in a manner appropriate to the waste and increase recycling equipment to improve energy interests of all its stakeholders.
Secure accreditation for newly and production efficiency Explore the use of energy-saving acquired sites within two year period technology in manufacturing Reduced environmental impact Pursue single, Group-wide through site consolidation Extend the span and quality accreditation to ISO 50001 for all of data collection Achieved ISO 14001 at Filter Products, manufacturing facilities by 2016 Dubai Develop new techniques with Continue to prioritise suppliers and customers for Attained ISO 50001 at Reinbek and War on Waste initiative environmentally friendly products Wolfen, Germany sites Gain ISO 14001 accreditation Gain ISO 50001 accreditation Secure continuous improvement Secure OHSAS 18001 accreditation Achieved OHSAS 18001 at Components, Identify other training needs in health and safety at principal manufacturing sites Turkey and Filter Products, Dubai Demonstrate year-on-year Establish Group standards for Introduced Essentra Heath and Safety improvement in the lost work improvements and results Management System day rate Encourage employee initiatives Rolled out STEP initiative across all sites Continue to implement three-year to reinforce Company training HSE improvement plan Reinforced the Essentra 8 Safety Expectations Improved the reporting of hazards and near miss incidents Ensure the highest standards of Promote Essentra Values Continued communication of core Respond to new risks and requirements business integrity and conduct policies through e-Learning and Establish clear policies Provide further training reviews in Essentra Group System and guidance Drive employee responsibility Implemented new compliance systems Secure employee awareness Investigate complaints and engagement Continued to train employees in Code of Business Ethics Continue to promote Right to Speak policy Regular review of adherence with policies and guidance by Group Assurance 38 STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Priorities goals How do we manage it?
Essentra recognises the significance and importance of being a responsible Reduce the impact of carbon Set carbon emission targets Established year-on-year environmental Continue with global carbon corporate citizen in the workplace, emissions and secure continuous at each operational location improvement objectives reduction initiatives marketplace, environment and improvement in environmental community.
The Companys international Reduce carbon emissions, Improved utilisation of raw materials Offset emissions when possible performance operations fulfil their responsibility to prevent pollution and improve and energy at principal operating Continue environmental record, monitor and make publicly manufacturing efficiency locations excluding acquired sites improvement to ensure retention available the potential impact of its Implement initiatives to reduce Invested in more flexible of accreditations activities.
In pursuing its corporate waste and increase recycling equipment to improve energy strategy, Essentras aim is to adopt Secure accreditation for newly and production efficiency business practices that are economically, Explore the use of energy-saving acquired sites within two year period socially and environmentally sustainable, technology in manufacturing Reduced environmental impact Pursue single, Group-wide and to promote these to its stakeholders through site consolidation Extend the span and quality accreditation to ISO 50001 for all in order to strengthen relationships, share of data collection Achieved ISO 14001 at Filter Products, manufacturing facilities by 2016 knowledge and encourage best practice.
Dubai Develop new techniques with Continue to prioritise The Companys risk management suppliers and customers for Attained ISO 50001 at Reinbek and War on Waste initiative processes include consideration of environmentally friendly products Wolfen, Germany sites the potential impact of corporate Gain ISO 14001 accreditation responsibility issues on Essentras performance.
The Companys investment Gain ISO 50001 accreditation decisions take into account appropriate evaluations of the potential consequences for its employees, customers and suppliers Secure continuous improvement Secure OHSAS 18001 accreditation Achieved OHSAS 18001 at Components, Identify other training needs and the environment.
in health and safety at principal manufacturing sites Turkey and Filter Products, Dubai Demonstrate year-on-year Establish Group standards for Introduced Essentra Heath and Safety improvement in the lost work The Essentra Values are fundamental improvements and results Management System day rate to the Companys adoption of the highest standards of business ethics and integrity Encourage employee initiatives Rolled out STEP initiative across all sites Continue to implement three-year that underpin its relationships with both to reinforce Company training HSE improvement plan Reinforced the Essentra 8 Safety internal and external stakeholders.
Expectations Essentras culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability Employees are Improved the reporting of hazards encouraged to act fairly in their dealings and near miss incidents with fellow colleagues, customers, suppliers and business partners.
Ensure the highest standards of Promote Essentra Values Continued communication of core Respond to new risks and requirements The Essentra Values can be found on the business integrity and conduct policies through e-Learning and Establish clear policies Provide further training Companys website www.
reviews in Essentra Group System and guidance Drive employee responsibility Implemented new compliance systems Secure employee awareness Investigate complaints and engagement Continued to train employees in Code of Business Ethics Continue to promote Right to Speak policy Regular review of adherence with policies and guidance by Group Assurance 39 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Average lost time accident The Company manages occupational As a result, the adoption of a structure with incidents x1,000 health by identifying key risk activities, a more geographical focus in 2013 has 2010 0.809 undertaking health assessments and, delivered improvement in the Companys 2011 0.639 where appropriate, implementing health health and safety performance.
The Company the development of greater regional has achieved the Occupational Health & expertise, the more rapid implementation 2013 0.838 Safety Management Systems OHSAS 18001 of standards and a higher degree of data 2014 0.808 standard for all its principal manufacturing standardisation across the Group helps to facilities.
Recently-acquired sites are given support and streamline Essentras ongoing Near misses recorded incidents a period of 24 months to reach the required HSE compliance and governance strategies.
standard, in accordance with Essentra 2010 5.3 policy.
Although acquisitions and growth Essentras businesses undertake 2011 4.2 have a bearing on the results, the Company extensive training programmes which are 2012 5.4 has designed procedures and developed particularly focused on the key, or most 2013 3.5 a culture which aims for continuous frequent, risks in their operations.
Training 2014 10.8 improvement, with the sharing of best in risk assessment and root-cause analysis practice in all areas of health and safety.
are key features in the Companys health As part of its three-year improvement plan, and safety management.
Workplace in 2014 a 12-point Essentra Safety and Health Management System ESHAM Details of Essentras health and safety Health and safety supported by a comprehensive performance for 2014 and subsequent Essentras overriding commitment in communications programme was progress throughout 2015 can be viewed on the workplace continues to be the health, introduced across all sites, to facilitate the the Companys website www.
safety and welfare of its employees and adoption of best practice and encourage all those who visit the Companys behavioural change.
Internal verification Employees operations, as well as those who carry audits of the system indicated a progressive Essentras employees are a vital resource out work on behalf of the Group.
improvement in scores during the year, in the pursuit of operational excellence The Board provides health and safety such that the Company achieved its initial and the provision of quality products and leadership and the Chief Executive has target level.
In addition, a shop floor STEP service to its customers.
The skills and primary responsibility for setting the initiative was rolled out, to improve hazard expertise of Essentras employees drive the principal health and safety objectives spotting, reporting and corrective action.
innovation which enables the Company within which the detailed policies Taken together, these initiatives have to provide added value to its customers, operate, and for reviewing progress resulted in a shift in focus from accident enhance supply chain logistics with its against those objectives.
reporting to risk identification, with the suppliers and reduce the environmental lost time accident rate decreasing in 2014, impact of its operations.
The Group-wide intranet-based notwithstanding organic growth and management reporting system facilitates acquisitions undertaken during the period.
an extensive live programme of active Accordingly, progress has been made in monitoring, that measures in detail how terms of further enhancing the way in which successful the Company is in managing health and safety change is identified, the safety of its workplaces at individual reported and communicated, thereby site level.
improving the Companys ability to learn from potentially hazardous conditions and prevent their reoccurrence or escalation into more serious incidents.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM The Company regularly reviews its Essentra values highly the commitment The Company gives full and fair organisational structure to ensure that of its employees and recognises the consideration to employment applications the business has the necessary personnel importance of communication to good by disabled people.
In the event of to deliver its strategic priorities.
The employees becoming disabled, every effort Company seeks to ensure that employees is made to ensure that the training, career Essentra understands the importance are informed on matters relating to their development and promotion opportunities of having the right people with the right employment and on financial and economic available to disabled persons are as far as skills now and in the future to deliver factors affecting the businesses.
The possible identical to those of other the exceptional service and expertise Company actively seeks feedback and ideas non-disabled employees.
which is the bedrock of the Companys from employees to improve its operations, long-term relationships with its customers.
and forums appropriate to Essentras local Throughout its global activities Essentra To deliver that service and expertise, businesses have been established to allow supports human rights as set down by Essentra is continually improving its employees to voice their views as to how the the United Nations Declaration and its comprehensive talent pool, from Company should fulfil the demands of all its applicable International Labour graduates to senior management.
Operations Essentra runs a very successful graduate Companys European Information and based in India, Indonesia and Thailand are training programme which continues Consultation Forum facilitates the also accredited to SA 8000 which details to expand its international reach.
discussion of issues across all of its fundamental principles of human rights.
operations in the European Union.
Key strategic aspects of recruitment, The Groups activities are carried out in training and development are overseen The Company recognises the importance developed countries that have strong or co-ordinated at a Group level to ensure of, and the benefits to be derived from, legislation governing human rights.
The consistency of approach, to identify diversity across its international operations Group complies fully with appropriate strategic threats and opportunities and and is committed to offering equal legislation in the countries in which it to open up a wider range of opportunities opportunities to all people without operates.
Essentras commitment to for employees.
Essentra Human Rights is repeated in its Values remunerates fairly with respect to skills, and Code of Business Ethics policy.
Essentra encourages its employees to performance and local market conditions.
develop and manage their own careers.
Marketplace It facilitates this by providing relevant job The gender of Essentras employees as at training and, where appropriate, aims to 31 December 2014 was: Essentras reputation with its customers fill vacancies with existing staff where and suppliers, and in the communities employees are suitably qualified and where it operates, is based not only Male Female experienced.
on the quality of its performance, but Non-Executive Directors 4 1 also on the integrity of its management Essentra encourages the involvement of Executive Directors 2 0 of the workplace and the environment, employees in the Companys performance and its ethical and responsible conduct Senior Managers 38 2 through employees share schemes, and to in the marketplace.
The development All employees 4,496 1,892 further enhance this a new Stock Purchase and continuation of long-term business Plan was launched in the US during the year.
relationships reflects the trust placed in the Company, and such commitments Essentra is committed to improving are an important component in the employee engagement and learning ongoing success of Essentra.
more about the needs of its workforce.
In addition to the impact of the training and development programmes, employee engagement is enhanced by the communication practices which have been adopted across the businesses.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Essentras Code of Business Ethics policy In the UK, Essentras sites comply with the The following assumptions, methodology, is applicable to all its businesses around Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC definitions and data validation processes the world.
The policy details the standards legislation.
The Company has registered have been used to report the Groups key expected by Essentra in the conduct of for Phase II and has complied with all environmental performance indicators in its business and its relationships with relevant data submissions.
The reported data complies with the third parties, including free and fair continues to apply the principles of the Companies Act, for the Mandatory competition, plus the prohibition of CRC to its global operations and is well Reporting of Greenhouse Gases.
bribery and political donations, and placed to manage further legislative provides general guidance on honest and changes in its operating regions.
Boundary scope: Data from all fair dealings with suppliers, customers locations over which the Company and local and national authorities.
Given the diversity of Essentras has operational control is collected international operations, local management and measured Essentra is committed to working with drives environmental performance in Primary data sources: These include its suppliers to ensure the welfare of accordance with Group policy, copies of billing, invoices and other systems workers and employment conditions which can be found on the Companys provided by the supplier of the energy within its supply chain meet or exceed website www.
Specific to communicate energy consumption internationally recognised standards.
site-level objectives are established to ensure compliance with local legislative Secondary data sources: These include Environment and external management systems the Companys internal systems used ISO 14001. to record and report the above Essentra applies a structured approach to consumption data maintaining its environmental impact by: Essentra uses a variety of indicators Internal data validation: The process Implementing and maintaining to monitor environmental performance, used to review and compare primary environmental and energy management but the following core impacts are data with secondary data.
All invoices systems certified to ISO 14001 on identified for the Group as a whole: and data loggers for locations a global basis Greenhouse gas emissions from consuming more than 1 million Kwh energy use, including electricity, Measuring and monitoring per year are cross-checked with the natural gas, heating fuel, transport consumption and emissions, and setting data held within the Companys and travel targets to improve performance own internal data capture systems Use of resources, including water Conducting environmental impact Conversion factors: The 2013 assessments and developing site Generation and disposal of waste Government GHG Conversion Factors management plans for Company Reporting, published by Essentra is continuously seeking ways to the UK Department for Environment Providing training to employees, and improve its utilisation of natural resources.
Food & Rural Affairs DEFRA, are engaging with customers and suppliers A process of continuous improvement is used when converting gross emissions.
to raise environmental awareness applied not only to the impact of its The applicable country conversion usage, but also to the measurement Providing facilities to segregate factors published in this guidance have and capture of key environmental data.
and reuse or recycle waste been applied to operations outside of The Group has additionally established the UK Essentra is listed in the FTSE4Good index research and development facilities in which is designed to measure the the UK, Asia and the US to investigate the Intensity metric: Total carbon performance of companies striving to use of renewable resources and recyclable emissions per m of revenue are meet globally recognised corporate biodegradable versions of products.
used to calculate the Companys responsibility standards, and to facilitate intensity metric.
investment in those companies where corporate responsibility issues are an influencing factor in an investors decision-making process.
42 STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Essentra actively engages with its Ethics Tonnes of CO e gross 2 employees, customers, and suppliers to year ended year ended exploit opportunities offered by new Essentras culture is one of openness, 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 technologies, improved process operations integrity and accountability.
Employees are Scope 1 8,967 11,595 and novel materials, to reduce its required to act fairly in their dealings with Scope 2 74,039 63,361 environmental impact and improve fellow colleagues, suppliers, customers and Total gross profitability further.
All employees undertake 83,006 74,956 emissions training in the Companys Code of Business Total carbon Supplier standards are subject to review Ethics policy which is updated annually.
emissions per 95.85 93.92 by the Companys employees who audit In addition, all employees are required m revenue their environmental credentials.
to review and confirm their acceptance of critical Group policies, with the majority Acquisitions and growth have contributed Community of employees being required to review and to Essentras increased use of energy.
accept all of the Group policies.
Essentra The application of energy improvement Essentras commitment to being a operates a confidential whistleblowing initiatives is expected to continue to responsible corporate citizen extends policy called Right to Speak, with an improve the Companys overall utilisation to support for appropriate non-political external call centre which enables all of energy and raw materials.
and non-sectarian projects across a range Group employees to raise any concerns.
Regardless of regional or national boundaries, the Essentra adopts a zero tolerance approach Core impacts Company aims to support the creation to bribery and corruption which extends to year ended year ended of prosperous, educated, sustainable and all business dealings and transactions in 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 healthy communities in the countries which the Company is involved.
This 1 General waste 3,052 2,183 and cultures in which it operates.
In its includes prohibiting political donations, Recycled factory attempts to bring benefits back to those offering or receiving inappropriate gifts 1,716 1,503 2 waste & cardboard communities whose support provides a and making facilitation payments.
3 3 3 256m 217m Water basis for Essentras success, the Company 1 Tonnes of waste to landfill has focused on education and enterprise, 2 Tonnes of production waste 3 health and welfare and the environment, Per million of Company revenue with support driven at a local, rather than a corporate level.
The approach is to Essentra is committed to ensuring good support and enhance employee efforts in environmental practices at all its locations, their communities through the application in its operational processes and investment of the Companys resources.
Essentras principal manufacturing its aims within the community, Essentra locations are ISO 14001 accredited, and has developed targeted programmes all the Companys European businesses for local communities, often involving comply with EU and domestic regulations.
commercial sponsorship and significant employee engagement through direct Due to the scale of Essentras international involvement or secondment.
operations, the use of energy and raw materials has both environmental and commercial importance.
Where possible, and financially viable, raw materials and energy from renewable resources are utilised to limit environmental impact, commercial risk and costs.
