Corporate Social Responsibility Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR, per 1 million hours EVRAZ key air emissions dynamics, kt and fatalities 124.6 124.2 122.1 119.1 32 24 19 2.23 1.96 1.60 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 LTIFR Fatalities LTIFR excludes fatalities Includes employee and contractor fatalities EVRAZ GHG emissions in 2014, MtCO e Number of employees 2 110,997 105,128 94,823 7.96 37.57 6.31 29.52 0.96 0.67 0.02 7.23 0.68 0.14 EVRAZ Total Steel segment Steel, Coal segment Other 2012 2013 2014 NA segment Indirect energy emissions Scope 2 As of 31 December 2014 Direct emissions Scope 1 Employees by business Employees by region Other operations & Africa: Unallocated: 3% Steel, 5% North America: North America: 5% 5% Ukraine: 12% Coal: 20% Russia: Steel: 80% 70% 30 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements enhanced business processes, as well as EVRAZ approach management and control systems.
Strategic EVRAZ takes its social responsibilities Human rights direction in the areas of health, safety and seriously, addressing and monitoring all EVRAZ implements the OECD Guidelines for environment comes from the Board of aspects of corporate social responsibility Multinational Enterprises to ensure a uniform Directors, which has established a dedicated CSR that are relevant to the business.
approach to business standards across the Health, Safety and Environment HSE This section of the report provides an Companys global operations.
The companys Committee to lead the Boards thinking on overview of EVRAZ policies and performance commitments are based on internationally health and safety issues, as well as taking in 2014 in key areas of CSR including human recognised standards and respect for all responsibility for environmental, safety and rights, health and safety, environmental human rights, including civil, political, local community matters.
Details of the terms performance, human capital management economic, social, and cultural rights.
of reference and activities of the Committee and community engagement as well as In particular, EVRAZ fully endorses the are set out in the Corporate Governance an outline of how the Company intends to provisions of the Universal Declaration of Report on pages 87-88. improve its performance in the years ahead.
Human Rights and strives at all times to uphold them.
The HSE function at the corporate and site Additional relevant disclosures are contained level is coordinated by the Vice President in the Strategic Report Principal Risks and EVRAZ seeks to develop and maintain of HSE Michael Shuble who regularly reports Uncertainties section on pages 18-21 and a work environment that is free from to the Board Committee on material HSE the Corporate Governance Report on discrimination and ensures equal rights, issues and attends certain meetings of pages73-89.
where every employee has the opportunity the Board of Directors.
At site level, each to contribute to the Companys overall results, plant manager takes overall responsibility Strategy and governance and to realise his her abilities and potential.
for HSE compliance, reporting to both EVRAZs directors and management share This aspiration is reflected in the Companys the site management and corporate-level the opinion that a company cannot in the internal codes and principles, including our HSE management.
long-term operate in isolation from the Business Conduct Policy The EVRAZ Way, wider community in which it operates.
The downloadable from the corporate website The safety, health and environmental policy Companys broader stakeholder base is http: www.
com governance implemented at the Group-wide level aims making increasing demands that EVRAZ documents at meeting or exceeding all applicable takes responsibility for the social and national legislation and increasing the level environmental impacts of its operations.
For additional details on employee of industrial safety and labour protection as engagement and social and community well as reducing the Groups environmental The Company is committed to improving HSE programmes please refer to pages 36-37. footprint across the operations.
performance through the implementation of 2014 progress In 2012 after determining the key challenges and focus areas, EVRAZ set five year targets 2012-2017 for its sustainability performance.
This table sets out progress towards these goals in 2014.
Area of focus Challenges Targets Progress to date Health and Safety Impact of operations on the consistent reduction in lost time 18% reduction 2014 LTIFR 1.60 health and physical condition injury frequency rate LTIFR 2013: 1.96 of EVRAZ employees avoidance of any fatal incidents across the Group 36% reduction since 2009 19 employee and contractor fatalities in 2014 2013: 24 1 2 Environment Impact of operations on the 5% reduction in air emissions 3.8% increase since 2011 environment air, water, waste 15% decrease in fresh water consumption 17% reduction since 2011 100% of non-mining waste 3 3 recycled or used 110% in 2014 2013: 105.7%, 2012: 103.9%, 2011: 109.6% Human Capital Development of employees to 100% of target groups covered Achieved 100% coverage of secure the long-term stability by development programme personal development plans PDP of the business Community Relations Effective management of relations contribution to the local EVRAZ continued supporting with local communities, which development of communities community initiatives with affect the Companys reputation in which EVRAZ operates, US$30million of social expenses and ongoing licence to operate through education, training spent worldwide and employment of the local population 1 Environmental targets are based on 2011 performance levels.
In 2014, the HSE Committee of the Board reviewed implementation of the environmental targets and agreed to re-base Fresh Water Consumption and Air Emission targets by excluding data related to the disposed assets due to their material effect on performance.
2 Including nitrogen oxides NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, dust and volatile organic compounds only.
3 The ratio of amount of waste recycled or used vs. annual waste generation, not including mining waste.
It can exceed 100% due to recycling of prior periods waste.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Corporate Social Responsibility continued In line with its strategic objectives, facilities: EVRAZ NTMK, EVRAZ ZSMK, EVRAZ Environmental performance relevant non-financial metrics LTIFR DMZ Petrovskogo, EVRAZ Highveld.
The Steelmaking and mining sites use substantial and Environmental non-compliance are certificate of EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli has amounts of energy and water: their operations incorporated into the Companys KPIs to been temporary suspended due to can significantly affect water quality, air measure and manage its performance.
quality, waste and land use.
EVRAZs For EVRAZ KPIs please refer to pages 16-17. environmental strategy is to seek to minimise EVRAZ supports the human health and the the negative impact of its operations and use environment goals of REACH, a European Health and safety performance natural resources efficiently, seeking optimal Union regulation concerning the Registration, In 2014 we saw a continued improvement solutions for industrial waste management.
Evaluation, Authorisation & restriction of in our health and safety performance.
EVRAZs goal is to ensure Regrettably the Company recorded 12 EVRAZ is on track to meet the five-year continued compliance with REACH employee and 7 contractor fatalities, environmental targets adopted in 2012: requirements in order to eliminate possible however this was a decrease from the risks to supplying customers in the European 24 18 employees and 6 contractors 5% reduction in air emissions: Economic Area.
The Company has 15% decrease in fresh water a target to achieve zero fatalities and consumption: and Air emissions serious incidents.
Behavioural safety training 100% of non-mining waste recycled The reduction of air emissions is one of and safety audits have been instigated at or used.
The the Companys assets with the objective of key air emissions are primarily comprised of embedding a new safety, harm-free culture In March 2014, the Health Safety and nitrogen oxides NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, at all management and operational levels.
Environmental Committee of the Board dust and volatile organic compounds.
reviewed implementation of Environmental In 2014, EVRAZs LTIFR continued to show a targets and agreed to re-base Fresh Water The Company has made significant progress quarter on quarter improving trend with a final Consumption and Air Emission targets by in air emission reduction since 2011.
The year end decrease of 18% in comparison with excluding data related to the disposed assets present air emissions reduction strategy the previous year, in line with our stated goal due to its material effect on performance.
includes modernisation of gas treatment of achieving a long-term downward trend in systems as well as implementation of modern Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
In 2014, EVRAZ spent approximately technologies and withdrawal of obsolete US$40million on measures to ensure equipment.
In 2014, EVRAZ ZSMK introduced In 2015 the Company aims to continue to environmental compliance and US$19million the Pulverised Coal Injection PCI technology sustainably reduce its LTIFR.
on projects to improve its environmental and completed installation of hydraulic valves performance.
In the period from 2015 on the coke chemical production equipment.
Reviewing the 2014 serious incidents to 2022, the Group is committed to EVRAZ DMZ modernised the gas treatment 4 indicates negative trends in the areas of spending more than US$167 million system of the converter shop mixer, and mobile equipment, railroad operations, and on environmental programmes across EVRAZ KGOK upgraded the aspiration underground mining operational hazards.
systems for roasting and sintering machines.
These areas have been targeted with focused improvement plans for 2015.
Ongoing The Groups non-compliance related Nevertheless the key air emissions have progress in the area of designated walkways, environmental levies and fines decreased increased by 5.1 thousand tonnes or 4.3% implementation of energy isolation principles 2.6 times from US$6.6million in 2013 to compared to 2013.
The growth in the LOTO and behaviour based conversations US$2.5million in 2014.
Three major legal emissions was caused by higher sulphur will remain a focus at all facilities.
Our zero cases related to environmental claims were content in coal and iron ore used at EVRAZ tolerance policy towards alcohol and drug resolved in favour of EVRAZ.
No significant ZSMKs power and sinter plants which intoxication remains in place and we have environmental permits or licences were resulted in SOx emissions growth and by an increased accountability when safety missing or revoked during this period.
increase in dust emissions at EVRAZ ZSMK violations are identified.
Heat & Power plant due to low efficiency of There were no significant environmental electrostatic precipitators.
Because of these The Company will focus on improving incidents at EVRAZ assets during 2014. two factors the air emissions by EVRAZ ZSMK safety training in 2015 and require all have increased by 7 thousand tonnes operations employees to receive at least EVRAZ is committed to continuing to compared to 2013.
10 hours of focused training above required strengthen its environmental management compliance training levels.
In 2014, EVRAZ arranged a number the ongoing initiative of behaviour based of internal environmental audits and conversations involving all levels of the continued its external ISO 14001 audit organization will be instrumental in driving programme.
EVRAZ currently has 12 ISO a change in safety culture.
14001 certified sites, including the largest 4 As of 31 December 2014.
5 REACH Regulation EC No 1907 2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council according to which as of June 1, 2007 all chemical substances, mixtures and substances in articles in some cases produced in or imported to European Economic Area EEA territory above 1 tonne per year are subject to mandatory procedures such as registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals.
If chemicals are not registered in accordance with REACH the products are not allowed to be manufactured in or imported into the EEA.
32 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements In addition, EVRAZ Highveld has been updating GHG emissions per net revenue, kg CO e US$ 2 its monitoring system to provide more accurate data and to improve operational control.
As a result, the enhanced control tools helped to identify additional 3 thousand tonnes of dust 6.2 6.2 and sulphur emissions.
Taking into account the management decision 3.8 to re-base the targets by excluding data 3.5 3.4 3.4 related to the disposed assets EVRAZ VGOK, EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel, three mines of 1.8 Evrazruda, the ZSMK Central Power Plant of 0.5 0.4 0.2 ZSMK and EVRAZ NTMKs Nizhnesaldinsky EVRAZ Steel segment Steel, NA segment Coal segment Other mill, the key air emissions from operations have increased by 3.8% since 2011.
2014 2013 Greenhouse gas emissions EVRAZ recognises the importance of abating EVRAZ GHG climate change and supports the global Specific Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions in Emissions, MtCOe2013 2014 2 effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions steel segment, t CO e per t of steel products 2 Total GHG 49.04 45.55 into the atmosphere.
In fulfilment of the emissions requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report Regulations 2.23 2.15 Split: 2013, EVRAZ undertook to assess full greenhouse gas GHG emissions from Direct Scope 1 40.99 37.59 facilities under its control.
Consisting of: The assessment covered direct Scope 1 CO 33.30 30.88 6 2 emissions of all seven Kyoto GHGs and indirect Scope 2 emissions from the use of CH 7.61 6.63 4 7 electricity and heat.
The inventory approach was based on the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for N O 0.08 0.08 2 National Greenhouse Gas Inventories IPCC 2013 2014 PFC HFC 0.0002 0.0002 2006 and WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting EVRAZ steel operations incl.
The Company provides data in Worldsteel average 2013 1.80 tonnes of carbon dioxide CO equivalent NF 2 3 tCO e calculated using IPCC 2006 global 2 Indirect Scope 2 8.05 7.96 warming potentials.
GHG emissions data was collected for 2014 Total 2014 GHG emissions decreased by in the coal mined and decrease in coal and compared to the 2013 levels which were 7% compared with the previous year.
The production at some of the mines have established as a baseline.
The steel segment decrease of coking coal consumption at resulted in 13% CH4 emissions reduction is still responsible for more than half of gross EVRAZ ZSMK due to implementation of the in the coal segment.
Overall, these factors greenhouse gas emissions from operations, pulverized coal technology in 2014, lower led to an 8% decrease of the EVRAZ Scope 1 while almost 90% of full emissions from the consumption of fuel coal at EVRAZ NTMK, emissions.
Scope 2 emissions decreased coal segment are due to fugitive methane and sale of some of the EVRAZ assets, that by approximately 1%.
leakage, caused by methane ventilation from took place in 2013 and the beginning of underground mines and post-mining 2014, have led to the decrease in CO emissions from coal.
Lower methane content 6 Carbon dioxide CO, methane CH4, nitrous oxide N2O, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons HFC PFC, sulphur hexafluoride SF6 and nitrogen trifluoride NF3.
2 7 The inventory of emissions includes all entities the Group controls.
Entities that were disposed of during the year were included for the period they were part of the Group.
Only entities that were deemed immaterial for consolidated emissions based on their operational indicators were omitted.
Direct CO emissions from operations were calculated using the carbon 2 balance method for carbon flows within production facilities, including fuel use.
Emissions of other GHGs were calculated based on measured volumes, inventory changes or IPCC 2006 factors and models including that for post-mining coal methane emissions where direct measurement data were not available.
Indirect emissions were estimated using emission factors specifically developed for the country or region, if available, or otherwise factors provided by UK Defra.
The results of 2013 have been recalculated due to change in the approach to estimation of fugitive post-mining methane emissions from produced coal as well as due to improvements in data quality and several identified inaccuracies.
In order to estimate post-mining methane emissions, data on the in situ methane content of the coal provided in the National Greenhouse Gas Inventory Reports are now used where available, or else the highest relevant default emission factor provided by IPCC 2006.
Locally obtained factors that were previously used proved to be inapplicable.
The total effect of these changes for 2013 amounted to 3.72 MtCO e for Scope 1 emissions.
Identified improvements in quality of the data 2 and inaccuracies regarding material flows have summarily resulted in the corrections of the 2013 GHG emissions of 1.11 MtCO e for Scope 1 emissions.
2 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Corporate Social Responsibility continued EVRAZ reports an intensity ratio relating In 2014, EVRAZ sites significantly improved In 2014, EVRAZ steel mills generated its annual GHG emissions to its activities the water management performance.
9million tonnes of metallurgical waste slag, total Scope 1 and 2 emissions per sludge, scale while 10.8million tonnes were consolidated revenue for the Company as Yuzhkuzbassugol put into operation new water recycled and reused.
In total, in 2014, EVRAZ a whole and each operating segment see treatment facilities at Uskovskaya and recycled or reused 110% of non-mining waste graphs according to the new divisional Yerunakovskaya-VIII mines.
The Alardinskaya and by-products compared to 106% in 2013. structure.
Additionally, specific emissions in mine completed installation of domestic the steel segment per tonne of steel products waste water treatment resulting in more EVRAZs strategy of dealing with nonfor both 2013 and 2014 years are compared treated water used in production instead hazardous mining wastes, such as depleted to average specific emissions of World Steel of fresh water.
rock, tailings and overburden is to use them Association members for 2013.
Higher where possible for land rehabilitation and the specific GHG emissions in the EVRAZ steel Water pumped from mines mine dewatering construction of dams or roads.
In 2014, 11% segment may be due to the key role that process is not included in the fresh water or 15.4million tonnes of such waste material integrated iron and steel works that consumption target although pumped water were reused compared to 14% or 21million inherently emit more GHGs than rolling mills is used in the production process.
In 2014, tonnes in 2013. play in EVRAZ steel production output.
44.7million cubic meters of mine water were pumped out and used compared to 37million All non-recyclable waste is stored in facilities Water consumption and water discharge cubic meters in 2013. which are designed to prevent any harmful The objective of the Company is to use water substances contained in the waste escaping resources efficiently and to prevent any EVRAZ ZSMK has commissioned new water into the environment.
negative impacts on water quality through rotation cycles in the gas treatment installation environmental incidents.
In 2014, almost 76% at the ingot shop, a water cooling system of Human capital of EVRAZ total water intake was from surface the rail and beam mill, reconstructed the pump EVRAZ recognises the importance of working sources, including rivers, lakes and reservoirs station and replaced gravity conduits of dirty with people and for people.
Great efforts are versus 80% in 2013. and clean cycles.
These measures along invested in ensuring EVRAZ is a sustainable with operational improvements allowed to Company that can support its growth strategy Total fresh water consumption in 2014 was decrease water consumption at EVRAZ ZSMK through its human capital management.
332million cubic metres, 9.8% less than in by 14million cubic meters.
Goals and initiatives of EVRAZs HR strategy 2013 368million cubic metres and 26.6% are aimed at developing employee skills and less than in 2011.
Taking into account the The Bagleykoks coke plant in Ukraine has improving production safety levels through decision by the HSE Committee of the Board commissioned a new chemical water training and performance management.
to re-base the target by excluding data related treatment plant.
to the disposed assets, the fresh water In 2014, the Company employed almost consumption decreased by 17% versus the Waste management 95,000 people.
The 10% decrease from 2013 2011 adjusted baseline.
Mining and steelmaking operations produce was mainly caused by: significant amounts of waste including waste rock, spent ore and tailings waste from the optimisation of production personnel processing ore and concentrates.
EVRAZ aims EVRAZ fresh water consumption dynamics, more than 4,000 employees 3 to reduce the amount of waste it produces, to million m optimisation of general and administrative reuse natural resources where possible and to personnel more than 2,500 employees 451.6 dispose of waste in a manner that minimises 422.3 the closure of uneconomic facilities at the environmental impact whilst maximising 368.4 EVRAZ ZSMK and Yuzhkusbassugol mines operational and financial efficiency.
332.1 more than 2,000 employees the disposal of assets more than 2,000 In line with the Companys strategy to reduce employees and waste storage volumes and enhance waste outsourcing of support functions about disposal, EVRAZ sites regularly reviews 500 employees.
opportunities for waste recycling and reuse.
For example, in 2014 EVRAZ ZSMK has The number of compulsory redundancies started operation of the new installation for across all operations totalled some 6,500 2011 2012 2013 2014 converter slag processing.
The main goal is employees in 2013.
This will allow us to extract 20-25% of the metal from Water discharge decreased by 73.8million the slag with the remainder after the crushing cubic meters during 2012-2014. and screening becoming by-product.
34 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30% 70% 14% 86% 10% 90% Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Performance management Educational programmes Diversity To encourage good performance and ensure EVRAZ capitalises on its technical The Company believes that diversity plays there is a clear link between corporate and employees expertise by involving them in an important role in a successful business.
individual objectives, performance the development of educational materials EVRAZ remains committed to providing equal management systems are implemented and training courses.
46 schools of chief rights to its employees regardless of their across the Company.
Business tasks and specialists took place during the last 3 years race, nationality, gender or sexual orientation, development targets of the performance aimed at developing and preparing and the Company recognises the importance management process include Key successors 490 employees for 240 of diversity when recruiting employees.
Full performance indicators KPI of certain technical experts.
In addition, 11 technical consideration is given to applications from business units aligned with the Companys forums including The Youth Scientific people with disabilities, having regard to their strategic principles and personal development Technical Conference aimed at solving particular aptitude and abilities.
Further initiatives to motivate production issues were highly assessed values all types of diversity, but focuses on employees and provide career development by the management.
TIPS Theory of Inventive gender balance at all levels of the business perspectives are based on the results of Problem Solving methods were actively with a view of improving the percentage of these performance management plans.
implemented in all such initiatives.
EVRAZs women in senior management each year to most gifted engineers undertake masters help the Company ensure a more balanced Talent management degrees in the Moscow Institute of Physics range of skills and management styles.
EVRAZ places a great deal of emphasis and Technology with a specialisation in on selecting, developing and promoting of systems engineering.
high potential employees, as set out in our Diversity of employees, senior management five year target.
There are several tools to In 2014, more than 2,000 managers of and directors achieve this target self-promotion and all levels, including President and vicestandard educational programs for all presidents, were trained on EVRAZs management levels.
corporate standard of Behaviour Safety Conversations which could help to manage In 2014, 51 EVRAZ technical specialists safety culture, attitude and prevent from the USA, Canada, South Africa, the staff injuries.
Czech Republic, Switzerland, Ukraine and Russia participated in the 5th EVRAZ New Leaders Programme hosted by the Skolkovo Moscow School of Management.
In 2014 this programme was conducted with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Board Senior management Employees Men Talent management issues are supervised Women by the Talent Committee which is comprised of key EVRAZ executives, all of whom are actively involved in and personally responsible As at 31 December 2014, 66,484 70% for, tutoring and overseeing a given pool of of EVRAZ workforce were men and 28,339 high potential employees.
Of these, 44 are considered which were introduced at all sites in 2013, senior management 38 men and 6 women.
will be used to engage management into EVRAZs current female representation the process of identifying and developing amongst the Boards membership is 10% successors for key positions in the Company.
with one woman on the Companys board of directors.
After considerable consideration and research Deborah Gudgeon was identified as a strong candidate to succeed Terry Robinson as an independent non-executive director and as a member of the Audit Committee.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Cooperation with labour unions employees well informed.
In 2014, EVRAZs Support for local communities includes EVRAZ respects its employees rights and communication program devoted to Health, infrastructure and cultural programmes.
aims to build a constructive and positive Safety and Environment was recognized as In 2014, EVRAZ continued to support the relationship with the labour unions which one of the best internal communications Drama theatre of Novokuznetsk.
All EVRAZ sites operate projects in Russia, acknowledging our supported the project of exchange road tours through the collective bargaining agreement success in motivating people to work Theatre spaces which gave the citizens model.
The Company has generally high levels safe, value their health and wellbeing.
opportunities to visit the plays of theatres of unionisation at operations about 75%, from other cities.
although this can vary significantly across In 2014, EVRAZ introduced a number of operations and countries.
new communications tools, such as town Once again EVRAZ ran the grant competition hall meetings with EVRAZ vice presidents City of friends, city of ideas in Kachkanar, Regular discussions and formal and informal and plant CEOs, quarterly top management the Urals.
12 social projects proposed by meetings of the management and the unions letters, infographics as an easy way to explain citizens were awarded grants, including those are conducted at all EVRAZ facilities in Russia our complex business processes and a new aimed at taking care of elderly people, and globally.
communications campaign, designed to improving the cultural life of the city, promoting promote the EVRAZ Business System.
sports and safety rules for children, as well as organising volunteer services.
Internal communications EVRAZ encourages two-way communication EVRAZ pays great attention to its internal processes and collects feedback via the EVRAZ continued its partnership with the communications processes and constantly EVRAZ Compliance Hot Line.
Thus the Russian Geographical Society.
For the fifth develops it in order to build an efficient Company ensures that every complaint is consecutive year EVRAZ sponsored the Kyzyl system, designed not only for keeping received and taken into account, and that Kuragino archeological expedition in the information flowing, but also for raising Companys policies and procedures are republic of Tyva.
In 2014, EVRAZ also helped employees loyalty and motivation.
used as a part our plants and employees organize the expedition in the North of Russia The company searches, evaluates and daily routine.
Looking for the last giant of the Arctic Region.
implements best communications practices, The expedition reached by boat the location such as corporate Intranet, bulletins, town We strongly believe that our efforts help where mammoth remains were found in the halls, internal advertising campaigns.
Our EVRAZ in achieving market leadership and beginning of the 20th century and made a goals are to provide up-to-date, full and in becoming the employer of choice.
number of important new research findings.
transparent information regarding our business and strategies, our progress and EVRAZ North America continued to develop Social and community programmes bottlenecks, to support EVRAZ development its Reading Sparksprogramme that provides The main charity programmes within the by engaging our employees into companys literacy support to children in EVRAZ company have remained consistent for initiatives, by building a strong international communities in the United States and several years: EVRAZ supports children, team of people, committed to our Company, Canada.
In addition to establishing book local communities and sports.
nooks in elementary schools in Alberta Camrose and Calgary, Canada, we again Charity funds in Siberia, the Urals, and Russia Companys internal communications sponsored the Saskatchewan Young Readers help children with cerebral palsy.
EVRAZ processes are built based on five Choice awards as well as the second and implements all modern techniques that help fundamentals of EVRAZs strategy.
According third years of the Prairie Valley school to treat the kids.
Phototherapy is one of the to the EVRAZ PEOPLE strategy we develop systems Battle of the Books program in latest successful techniques, along with transparent and easy-to-reach systems for Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada.
In the U. S. aquatherapy, hippotherapy and traditional delivering the information to different groups we extended our support of the Pueblo City medical care.
of employees from white collar workers to elementary school systems literacy program thousands of steelmakers and miners.
to fund firstthrough third-grade classes.
EVRAZ continues to support orphanages, For example, our corporate Intranet unites providing equipment, educational materials, employees from the Russian Far East and EVRAZ began its multi-year commitment as clothes and New Year presents.
In Siberia Western Siberia to Dnipropetrovsk, Ukraine, the presenting sponsor of the Enbridge Ride EVRAZ organized a boat tour to Evenkia for providing them with one unified newswire and to Conquer Cancer, which benefits the Alberta the children from one of the orphanages of knowledge data-base, available for all Cancer Foundation.
The children passed more corporate computer users.
Our weekly organisations and charitable causes in than 500 km by rivers and land.
corporate newspaper with over 50,000 Canada supported by EVRAZ North America copies covers over 10 plants and mines: include the United Way, Hull Services, and unified information desks keep operational the Alzheimer Society.
The company also 36 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements provides scholarships for Canadian Mapochs Mine supports a Hydroponics Aboriginals to the Universities of Alberta and and agricultural project.
The mine supplied Regina, Notre Dame College, Northern Alberta infrastructure hothouse tunnels and water Institute of Technology and Saskatchewan tanks and trained the households to produce Polytechnic.
In addition, EVRAZ is an their own fruit and vegetables.
Surplus associate partner of the new University of produce is bought by the Mapochs Canteen British Columbia Pipeline Integrity Initiative and two boarding schools in the area.
to foster education, training and research Indigenous Nursery supports the Mapochs for BCs pipeline programs.
Mine ground rehabilitation programme and is used to grow seedlings and rescue plants EVRAZ also continues to support four-year from the mined areas.
skilled apprenticeships for maintenance and electrician tradespeople at Pueblo In Ukraine, EVRAZ concentrated on Community College and the Pueblo Workforce environmental efforts, social projects and Center in Colorado.
In Portland, Oregon, improving infrastructure in the regions where EVRAZ supported the First Growth Children it is present.
and Family Charities annual fundraiser benefitting the YWCA Clark County, Randall The staff remain involved in EVRAZ-driven Childrens Hospital, New Avenues for Youth, community programmes.
In April 2014 Metropolitan Family Services, and Friends four hundred of EVRAZ DMZ Petrovskogo of the Children.
employees participated in a regular environmental event to clear the littered EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium Ltd banks of the Dnepro river.
sets a focus on socioeconomic development, education and health, to the benefit of the EVRAZ Ukraine has promoted the prestige of most vulnerable members of the eMalahleni the metallurgical profession the industrial community.
Programmes include meals to heart of the country.
Over ten thousand underprivileged children and a secure people visited the virtual room Feel Yourself playground for them after school, donation EVRAZ Steelworker in Dnepropetrovsk for the construction of the hall in Pine Ridge trying on virtual suits of a blast furnace School, as well as support to SANTA South and a converter shop worker.
Our Strategic Report, as set out on pages 4 to 37 inclusive, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 31 March 2015.
By the order of the Board Alexander Frolov Chief Executive Officer EVRAZ plc 31 March 2015 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 38 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Business Review Here we analyse the Companys results by reportable operating segments and discuss the performance of EVRAZs business divisions throughout the year.
In this section: 40 Steel segment 41 Financial performance 44 Operational performance 44 Russia: Steel and Iron ore 49 Ukraine: Steel and Iron ore 52 South Africa: Steel 54 Vanadium 56 Steel, North America segment 56 Financial performance 58 Operational performance 61 Coal segment 61 Financial performance 63 Operational performance EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39
