14 Strategic report Our People Our people Our global people strategy aims to deliver premium growth by creating a great place for our people to work.
To achieve this outcome, our people to the Heart of Experian.
In the same strategy focuses on two key areas: survey, 86% responded positively when culture and engagement, and talent.
asked: What difference is the Heart of We are now two years into our Heart Experian making for our business and our of Experian initiative, which aims to people?.
We know there is still work to do transform Experian into one of the worlds and we remain committed to the Heart of best places to work.
Our talent strategy Experian for the long term.
drives the attraction, growth and retention Employee engagement of a deep pool of talented employees, listening to our people who reflect our global reach and our belief in the value of diversity.
We carry out our global people survey approximately every 18 months.
It provides Culture and engagement building valuable insights into employees views a sense of pride and connection and their engagement with the business.
In 2012, we launched the Heart of Experian Of our global employee base, We conducted our last survey in May 2013 as a way to express the ties that bind our 45% are female and 55% male.
and achieved our highest ever response, organisation together, wherever we are and with 89% participation.
This considerably whatever we do.
Our Core DNA Connect, exceeds the external high-performing Protect, Create reflects what we do and norm and ensures the results fully reflect the way we work: our employees views.
One reason for the high participation rate is that our people Connect bringing our people know we will act on areas identified for together to make a difference for improvement.
66% agree, which outstrips our clients and communities.
the global high-performing companies Protect how our people take 1 norm of 57% by some margin.
More than 450 Ambassadors work care of sensitive personal and with local management worldwide The 2013 results continue the overall commercial information.
to make the Heart of Experian real positive trend established since our first in every office.
Create how everyones ideas matter, survey in 2007.
53% of items showed in creating smart and insightful ways significant improvement since November to help consumers and organisations.
2011 and our scores improved or stayed In the Heart of Experians second year, the same in 14 out of 15 categories.
However, our engagement score declined we have focused on bringing it to life for our people, every day.
With that in mind, by 1% to 74%, compared to 2011.
In part we ascribe this to raised expectations, we have shifted the initiative from being globally led to regionally led, so we can resulting from the high profile of the Heart of Experian.
We have put robust tailor activities to local needs.
More than 450 Ambassadors around the world plans in place at global, regional and 86% of Experian employees believe that local levels, to address this feedback.
support this shift, by working with local the Heart of Experian makes a difference management to try to make the Heart to our business and our people.
We intend to run our sixth global people of Experian real in every office.
Our focus will We are convinced that the Heart of continue to be on closing the gap between Experians scores and those of global highExperian will deliver long-term benefits for our business performance and for clients performing organisations.
On average, we are currently 5 percentage points behind and consumers.
Our 2013 global people survey showed a marked improvement those best-performing companies.
in 21 of the 23 items most closely related 1.
This refers to the Towers Watson Global High Performing Companies norm.
The norm is formed by approximately 30 top-performing companies who meet a range of demanding measures, including financial performance and employee engagement scores.
This norm is the aspirational benchmark against which we measure our performance in the Experian global people survey.
Strategic report Our People 15 Global cost profile Experian employs people in North America: 6,400 Labour 54% Marketing 12% Latin America: 3,000 IT 8% Other 11% UK and Ireland: 3,800 Data 13% Central Activities 2% EMEA Asia Pacific: 3,100 Diversity profile of the senior leadership team September 2008 September 2009 September 2010 September 2011 September 2012 September 2013 Total number of senior leaders 87 87 90 85 89 92 Gender: female senior leaders % 11 13% 14 16% 16 18% 16 19% 17 20% 20 22% Ethnic origins % non-white 6 7% 4 5% 6 7% 8 9% 8 9% 9 10% We also want that diversity to flow We have developed a global D&I Talent strengthening and through to our senior leadership team, so framework, which each region and global diversifying our talent pool it better reflects our client, consumer and business line has used to create a D&I Our talent strategy focuses on releasing employee bases.
The table above shows action plan.
We review progress against the talent of every employee to deliver the current picture and the progress we these plans twice a year.
This takes place our performance goals.
Details of our Board diversity at our global talent review and is aligned Growth and our diversity and inclusion can be found in the Corporate governance with our annual planning process.
We agenda are just two of the many ways report, later in this annual report.
are also working to broaden our definition in which we aim to achieve this for all and understanding of diversity, to make Of our global employee base, 45% are our people.
We also continue to invest in us more inclusive and ensure we create female and 55% male.
Around 29% are targeted leadership development, as part an environment in which everyone can classified as white and 12% as non-white.
of strengthening our leadership pipeline.
succeed, irrespective of their gender, The remaining 59% are not classified, ethnicity, thinking style, experience, age, Performance for Growth either because local legislation did not physical ability and economic background.
In 2013, we launched Performance for allow us to request this data or because Growth, a globally consistent performance employees chose not to disclose it.
At the same time, The Heart of Experian offers us an we introduced the People Standard and unrivalled opportunity to build a more the Leadership Standard.
These clearly inclusive culture, with its emphasis lay out the capabilities and behaviours we on developing a sense of belonging expect from our employees and leaders.
and giving all employees the chance Our assessment of performance now has to flourish.
In addition, we have a more equal balance between what we significantly increased our diversity do our objectives and how we do it our and inclusion D&I efforts in the behaviours.
Performance for Growth has past year, seeking to raise the bar also increased the emphasis on career everywhere and ensure we are in a and development conversations.
Feedback stronger position, locally and globally.
to date has been very positive and we will continue to embed this approach.
Increasing our emphasis on diversity and inclusion We need to access the broadest possible talent pool, so we can drive innovation and meet the needs of our increasingly diverse clients and consumers around the world.
16 Strategic report Our people Our people continued P71 Global leadership programmes in the CEO Forum and been identified and Corporate Governance Committee as people we want to develop further.
regularly review our plans for senior Building a strong talent and leadership The programme accelerates leadership leadership succession.
pipeline is a significant part of our development for our top global talent, talent agenda.
We have a suite of wellThe most recent review highlighted that: to help them prepare for future roles in established global talent programmes, to the most senior levels of management.
96% of senior leadership roles accelerate our top talents development: Of participants to date, 20% have been have successors ready to provide Experian Business Network EBN promoted during or since the programme, emergency cover 2013: 93% and We launched this development forum of whom 29% were women.
55% have one or more candidates for high-potential and diverse emerging to be permanent successors in the talent in October 2008.
In 2014, we rolled In addition to these global programmes, short term 2013: 52%.
Our focus out EBN in Asia Pacific, making this we have a range of blended learning is on developing the strength and impactful programme available in all opportunities at a regional level, depth of this talent pipeline.
More than 450 employees to support both technical and continue to cascade the talent have been or are currently part of the leadership development.
review process to increasingly EBN.
Approximately 19% of participants junior levels of emerging talent, to Talent and succession planning have gained a promotion during or help identify our talent pipeline for since participating, which is ahead To ensure we have the future capability the future.
We then support their of the average for Experian.
Of these we need, we have begun a global process development in a more targeted way, promotions, 42% have been for women.
This will to ensure their future readiness.
identify and address the critical gaps CEO Forum 13% of the senior leadership team between our current resources and This development forum exposes senior are occupying developmental roles the resources we will need to achieve talent to the CEO and other senior outside their home country our strategic goals.
This talent mobility continuous process will determine our the leadership succession talent pool remains a key focus, as building future talent requirements, in terms of and actively encourage diversity.
Since global capability is crucial to our both skill set and location.
It will then its creation in 2008, 30% of the 90 sustained success.
We are also inform the need for talent acquisition and participants have received a notable seeing an increasing number of development programmes.
promotion, of whom 22% were women.
global moves at more junior levels, Succession planning is also integral to supported in part by our new Executive Success our talent strategy, ensuring we have internal Experian Careers website.
After a successful pilot in 2012, the the leadership resources to achieve second cohort has now completed our strategic objectives.
It targets our highestleadership and the Boards Nomination potential leaders, who have participated Si Ramo Prize 2014 As part of building a culture of To be considered for the prize, the engagement and innovation, we nominees must exemplify Si Ramos launched the Si Ramo Prize in 2014. behaviours and characteristics, Doctor Simon Si Ramo is an American namely having: physicist, engineer and business leader.
vision for the future: He is also one of Experians forefathers, thanks to his role in creating the part creativity and innovation to develop new technologies and approaches: of TRW that became Experian.
resilience to fight through challenges: The prize will be awarded annually to an individual or small team that applies teamwork complementing the superior scientific skill to further Groups individual strengths: and Experians commercial success the idea development must have in data and analytics.
Strategic report How Experian helps: Telecommunications 17 Telecommunications Youve been in back-to-back meetings all day since 8am, and on your commute home you dropped your smartphone and cracked its screen Its been a long day.
After dinner, you notice a TV ad with a good He offers you a buy-back discount on your current phone, takes deal on new smartphones.
You reach for your tablet and go a few more details, including your full name and post code, online to connect with your friends and ask which phone brands which you verify with your drivers licence, and then suggests, they like.
A banner ad from your current provider reminding you based on your financial situation, that you spread your payments its probably time to upgrade your old phone takes you to its for the new phone over 12 months.
Youre in and out within website, where you browse the latest models.
The next day, you head to your providers store and pick out a A couple of days later you receive a thankyou email for new phone.
The sales assistant couldnt be more helpful and upgrading, along with a 50% discount on broadband and once you have identified yourself with some basic details, they accessories that perfectly pair with your new phone.
Thats know which mobile bundle to offer you so you spend less time a good offer.
How Experian helps We help companies to engage with you at your convenience and through your preferred channel, making it easier for you to find goods and services youre most likely to be interested in.
Our highquality data and analytics save you time by pre-qualifying you for the most appropriate offer and by accurately filling in your address details, and our robust verification checks at the point of sale help to prevent someone else from taking out credit in your name.
