Corporate Responsibility Operating our companies in a safe and socially considerate manner is crucial to the long-term sustainability of our business.
Nicholas Hobson Chief Executive Officer statutory requirements and is encouraged to required to undertake a risk-based Why corporate responsibility is operate in accordance with identified best assessment of their local H&S management important to Fenner practice within the Group.
systems and develop appropriate Fenner believes that corporate responsibility improvement plans.
In line with the culture of is a key driver in helping to deliver long-term Health and safety delegated accountability in the Group, the sustainable business success.
Additionally, Why it matters to Fenner accountability for managing H&S and we recognise that we have social and Health and safety H&S is a core value: it is developing local H&S management systems environmental responsibilities to the clearly stated in our safety management resides with local management: this ensures communities in which we operate.
By system that anyone working for Fenner the systems are appropriate to the local addressing our corporate responsibilities should expect to return home in the same fit culture, organisation and regulatory appropriately, we can add to the overall and healthy state in which they came to work.
environment, while additionally seeking to success of the business, enhancing our meet best practice standards.
To ensure that Our Group policies also require that everyone reputation, profitability and shareholder return.
who works for Fenner, regardless of location, local H&S management systems are robust is responsible for the safety of both themselves and fit for purpose, The Framework How we manage corporate encompasses the principle of continuous and their colleagues.
We recognise that this is responsibility an individual and collective responsibility and improvement.
This obliges local management Fenner strives to understand and manage to drive improvements at a pace that is continuously work to discharge the obligation significant risks to the environment and sustainable and appropriate to the size and to ensure that the workplace is safe for communities in which we operate, as well as ourselves, our colleagues, our customers and culture of the operating unit.
considering the positive impact we can make all those with whom we work.
We have a well established programme which through our activities.
Our approach to Fenner looks for and promotes H&S as a key oversees the long-term delivery of The corporate social responsibility focuses on five Framework into our operating units culture.
component in the culture of each of its key areas: Key elements comprise: operations.
The Health, Safety and Health and safety: Environmental Management System An annual review process that generates Framework The Framework provides Our people: individual operating unit improvement structure and guidance regarding each of our plans: Environment: activities, to deliver continuous improvement Community: and within the unique culture and autonomy of our An external assurance programme which operations.
The Framework provides measures Group performance against Business behaviours.
individuals, operating units and new industry-wide benchmarks and best The risks associated with these five areas are acquisitions with a clear understanding of practice standards: managed as part of the Groups risk what is required of them, while allowing local At the divisional level, a network of senior management framework and are continuously management the freedom to develop their H&S professionals with multi-site monitored and assessed, with appropriate systems to satisfy local legislation, practice overview whose remit is to provide controls put in place as necessary to reduce and social mores.
technical guidance and challenge to any potential impact.
Not only is a good H&S record a clear sign of operating units: and The Board sets the strategy and has overall a sustainable business, but also, for many Improved communication and sharing responsibility for the development and customers, it is a prerequisite for our across the broader H&S community monitoring of the Groups policies relating to employees working on their property.
The task of ensuring commercial benefits include reduced that these policies are communicated and operational costs associated with accidents The continuous improvement approach to applied at a divisional and operating unit level and lower insurance premiums.
H&S management and the core processes is delegated through the Chief Executive integral to this are illustrated in the Safety What policies and practices are in Officer to senior managing directors and on to Management System diagram.
each operating units senior management.
All Group, we have had an extremely positive policies and associated management systems The Framework, together with Group policies, response to the structure and clarity provided are reviewed at least annually and at any time forms the foundation of the Group HSE by The Framework.
when significant changes in the business, Management System.
The Framework legislation or industry standards demand.
contains clear guidance on process and the The Group Health and Safety Policy can Each operating unit is responsible for Expectations that the Group places on all our be viewed at www.
com ensuring that, as a minimum, it meets local operating units.
All operating units are Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 30 Oper Operational ational Chall Challenge and c enge and continuous ontinuous r re evie view w impr impro ov vement ement Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Safety Management System are also routinely monitored and discussed at management meetings with investigations into serious incidents and near misses reported to the Group for dissemination across all global operations.
Loc Local al H&S perf H&S performanc ormance e Accidents and near misses are recorded and reviewed locally and safe systems of work Planning and e Planning and ex xecution ecution updated if necessary.
Accidents involving lost time are reported through divisional Oper Operational s ational str trat ategy egy management to the main Board.
The process for sharing details of an incident and the Learning fr Learning from pas om past e t experienc xperiences es measures around the Group to prevent similar Risk management Risk management accidents happening elsewhere has been T Tr raining and c aining and compet ompetencies encies formalised and extended to include near Cor Core e P Policy and pr olicy and proc ocedur edure e misses and guidance on wider health issues pr proc oces esses ses Leader Leadership and dir ship and direction ection with a business impact.
Measur Measurement and as ement and assur suranc ance e H&S regulators are increasing their level of T Technic echnical int al integrity egrity activity, increasing penalties and extending their interest across businesses with common The F The Fr rame amew work ork ownership.
The Framework and our Groupwide processes not only ensure our Gr Group policies oup policies performance improves, but also address this increased regulatory activity.
Gr Group oup Regulat Regulatory c ory complianc ompliance e Highlights from the year For the tenth year in succession we have been able to demonstrate a reduction in our lost organisation, whereby the accountability for What are we doing?
time incident frequency rate LTIFR.
Over day-to-day HSE performance ultimately The Framework requires each operating unit this period the rate has dropped by 75%.
This resides with the local business leadership.
to conduct an annual assessment of its local year we achieved an LTIFR of 1.03 and Adding clarity around these existing safety management system compared to The recorded our lowest recorded number of lost processes formed the majority of the Framework Expectations.
This assessment time incidents LTIs at 57.
The challenge of improvements to The Framework.
also takes into account the current achieving a year-on-year improvement gets operational risk profile and applicable Since the introduction of The Framework in greater with every year as each business regulatory requi rements for the location.
2009, an essential part of the management of improves its performance.
Crucial to The unit then produces an improvement plan H&S in the Group is the effectiveness of The maintaining this downward trajectory is which incorporates and builds on its existing Frameworks associated assurance moving all parts of the organisation from a H&S programmes.
The Framework is also a programme.
An appropriate assurance reactive approach when incidents occur to a core component of the integration plan for all programme was implemented shortly after proactive awareness and management of HSE acquisitions.
Progress against these plans is the roll-out of The F ramework.
This risks across the Group.
monitored and subject to inde pendent comprises visits by independent, third party In particular we are also pleased to report assessment through an assurance H&S experts who review documentation, that in 2014, the CDI facility in Houston, USA programme.
The benefits of a structured engage with staff at all levels in the operating passed 1,000,000 hours worked without a lost approach are evident in both the established unit and assess the local H&S culture and time incident.
Local management believe that Fenner operations and our recent behaviours.
The assurance programme this performance was achieved through acquisitions.
delivers multiple benefits: it provides fundamentally changing the approach to independent verification to the Executive A culture of continuous improvement is safety and developing a sustainable culture Committee and the Board as to the state of embedded in the Groups approach to H&S where everyone is aware of their personal local safety management systems and safety and encompasses continual monitoring and obligations to themselves and others with culture across the Group: it provides each periodic review.
At an operational level, this is respect to a safer working environment.
operation with recommendations for demonstrated by the development and improvement based upon a broad crossdelivery of the operating unit improvement In October 2014, the second biennial Global Group perspective: and it acts as another Fenner HS&E Conference was held in plans.
At a Group level, it is delivered by a conduit for sharing best practice across periodic review of The Framework.
The conference was attended the Group.
global review of The Framework was by over 65 delegates drawn primarily from H&S and operations personnel across the undertaken to ensure The Frameworks Every manager and supervisor is accountable relevance due to the continuously evolving Group.
The theme for the conference was for delivering high levels of H&S performance nature of the Groups activities.
A number of Sharing and Learning, with speakers drawn in their area of influence.
These leaders are minor improvements and additions were from across the Groups global operations.
supported by a network of local H&S made and a revised version of The Framework Each speaker presented approaches or managers within the operations who are able was launched by the Chief Executive Officer in to advise, support and drive improvements in programmes that had been successful in early 2014.
During the review it became addressing particular H&S issues in their their safety management systems.
All apparent that, whilst there was general operating unit.
As before, key note speeches operations have an H&S committee which agreement and understanding of the meets regularly to discuss H&S topics and were also delivered by Executive Committee Expectations, the processes around the members and the Chief Executive Officer.
The concerns, make recommendations and delivery of the Expectations was less well implement and monitor any improvements or conference built upon the success of the appreciated.
An example of this was how the initiatives.
H&S key issues and measurements inaugural conference in 2012 and the chain of delegation works through the common foundation of The Framework.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 31 Owner Ownership, c ship, communic ommunication and pr ation and promotion omotion Balanc Balance of ac e of acc count ountability ability Corporate Responsibility continued Fenner aims to provide an inclusive and Case study Health and safety diverse workplace environment, in which all employees are treated with dignity and Improving the safety competency and risk respect.
We are committed to providing equal awareness of our people is the only way to opportunities in recruitment, employment and fundamentally build a better and sustainable development and do not discriminate against safety culture across the Group.
We also any person based on gender, race, age, caste, recognise the difficulty of providing good quality origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation health and safety training across the globe, or any other status protected by law.
especially to some of our more remote Harassment, discrimination and bullying in locations.
To address this problem we have engaged in a global pilot programme of web-based HSE What are we doing?
learning in conjunction with NOSA, a South We strongly believe in the importance of African based company.
NOSA are global providing training opportunities to help leaders in the delivery of HSE e-learning and employees increase their contribution to the their flagship training course, SAMTRAC, offers Group and realise their full potential.
New benefits such as country specific HSE employees receive induction training on a legislation, international accreditation through variety of subjects, including H&S and Group The Institution of Occupational Safety and policies and procedures.
At a number of Health based in the UK and the ability to access operating units, a mentoring system is the course in many languages, making it ideal employed, with experienced employees for Fenner.
It allows us to set a single standard helping new employees develop their skills.
of HSE training across our operations.
Additional training requirements are continually assessed at a local level and provided as appropriate to meet the development needs of both the operating unit Three of the Groups operating units have Our people and the employee.
Employees take part in received external recognition and awards Why it matters to Fenner formal annual appraisals to discuss during the year for their performance: Fenners employees are critical to the success performance, achievements and future of the Group.
Our ability to consistently deliver The ECS service operation in Chile was development and progression opportunities.
reliable and superior solutions to customers recognised with awards from two of their relies on a stable, skilled, motivated and We believe that open and timely major customers for sustained safe effective workforce.
We are committed to communication helps to increase employee working, which has resulted in over 500 attracting, developing and retaining the best awareness and understanding of our culture days of accident-free operations on both people to help ensure the continued success and vision.
A number of publications are customers sites: of the Fenner Group.
"To this end, employee provided at a divisional and local level: in The Fenner Drives operations in data is being collected, analysed and reviewed addition, the Fenner Focus magazine is Wilmington, USA received a ""Gold Award"" by the Executive Committee on a regular basis."
produced and distributed to all employees on from the State of North Carolina for a quarterly basis, allowing us to keep As Fenner has a global customer base and excellent safety performance: and employees up to date with matters of Group operating units situated across the world, we and operational significance.
Alongside The Safety Officer in our ECS operations have a geographically and culturally diverse informing employees of business matters, the in Shanghai, China received an award workforce.
On average during the year, the magazine also provides operating units with from the Labour Union for his Group employed 5,371 people 2013: 5,272, of an opportunity to highlight work undertaken contributions towards improving safety which 31% were located in EMEA, 43% in the in the community, H&S and environmental performance.
Americas and 26% in Asia Pacific.
initiatives and long service achievements.
The 2014 Fenner Group Health and Safety What policies and practices are in At a local level, operating units regularly use Improvement Award has been awarded to the place?
staff meetings, management walkabouts, ECS belting operation in Bracebridge, Employment policies are designed to meet newsletters, consultative councils, suggestion Canada.
The improvements have been put local conditions and requirements, on the schemes, poster campaigns, appraisals and down to a twin approach addressing safety basis of best practices in each country and social events to communicate with their culture and behaviours as well as improving Fenner also supports the principles on the employees.
Similarly, employees are the engineering of the facility and its Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
encouraged to communicate with equipment.
This allows a more effective management and channels are provided for engagement with employees and a cleaner Recruitment practices are determined at a feedback and comment on the Groups and better maintained environment for them local level as we believe each operating unit is activities.
Overall this has achieved a best placed to determine the appropriate significant change in individuals attitudes policies for their organisation.
All employees Fenner attaches a great deal of importance to towards safety awareness for themselves and are actively encouraged to apply for roles, the health and welfare of our employees, both others, resulting in over 1,000 days without an including cross-divisional opportunities where in the workplace and in their private lives.
This is all the more remarkable since applicable.
An internal website provides large number of operating units offer free between 2008 and 2012, Bracebridge were operating units with the opportunity to share health screenings and vaccinations to averaging at least 3 LTIs per year.
job vacancies across the Group, helping to employees.
Several operating units also provide employees with more varied career encourage their employees to lead healthier opportunities and improve the retention of lifestyles through the use of various health skilled staff across professional and programmes, ranging from smoking managerial roles.
cessation and weight loss initiatives to Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 32 s e s c e n n i a s m u b r o s f e r v e i r p D s u c o f c i g e t a r C t h S a l l e n l g a i i n r g u e n e r p D e r e t n e m m E m o a o t Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results subsidising gym membership and Individual behaviours in support of our strategy physiotherapy sessions.
During the year, the Strong Growing Resilient ECS operation in Lavonia, USA ran a Health & Wellness Fair to educate employees on a Maximise organic and Invest in human capital Performance-critical variety of health issues.
"Their Health & acquired growth Extend intellectual Aftermarket focus Wellness sub-committee also ran a number property inventory Increase focus on of specialised health programmes throughout Balanced portfolio faster growing the year, including voluntary ""stretch & flex"" Maintain and improve Exposure to long-term emerging markets exercise programs for all shifts to help business infrastructure growth markets Identify fast growing address potential ergonomics issues."
"Sustain a secure Mandals in Norway ran a ""Cycle to Work"" applications balance sheet initiative, to encourage as many employees as possible to use a bicycle to travel to work."
CDI in Singapore provided money towards dental care for any employees who wished to take advantage of the initiative.
Highlights from the year With the appointment of a Group HR Development Director in 2013, Fenner has Our Values begun to focus at a Group level on the development and retention of talent.
Working Do no harm with the Executive Committee, a set of Culture of autonomy with behaviours were developed, closely linked to accountability & empowerment our strategy, which define the characteristics No politics, no blame valued by the organisation.
Delivering excellence Using these behaviours as a base, a 360 Customer intimacy degree feedback tool has been developed and Honesty, decency is available for use across the Group.
They have & integrity also formed the basis for a new Group succession planning process that is being rolled out to ensure business-critical roles have identified succession candidates and to n maximise development opportunities for staff by leveraging our Group structure.
These behaviours have also been used as the selection criteria for identifying potential future business leaders within the organisation.
senior management roles in the future see the During the year, Fenner launched its first case study below for further details.
It is Group-wide leadership development planned that a second Group-wide programme, The Fenner Gateway Development programme, Pathway, will be introduced Programme Gateway, aimed at employees shortly, which will provide development with 5 to 10 years experience, who have been training to employees at a more senior level, identified as having the potential to rise to generally with 10 to 20 years experience.
Case study The Fenner Gateway Development Programme In early 2014, Fenner launched a new Gateway is being run in partnership with leadership development initiative, The Ashridge Business School.
Ashridge is a Fenner Gateway Development world class business school established Programme.
The aim of Gateway is to for over 50 years, based just north of provide a mixture of leadership training, London.
personal development and tuition in The core of the Gateway programme is business skills to some of our aspiring the completion of three business leaders from across the Fenner projects that have been designed and businesses.
sponsored by divisional managing The 16 participants for this inaugural directors.
These projects will be programme have been drawn from across completed over the next six months and all the Fenner divisions and include most of the work will be completed in participants from USA, UK, Canada, participants own time.
Participants will Netherlands, Norway, China and attend a further week at Ashridge in Australia.
Participants also come from a November 2014 and, in February 2015, range of functions including finance, they will be undertaking a charity project sales, manufacturing, legal and project in India.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 33 t u i s r o t i t n r y y a t a i l t l i e b s a t n u o c c A i n A t w e c i g t t r h s i t y s r s e r w e o h p t m o E s e t a r o b a l l o C Corporate Responsibility continued any environmental risks or other incidents direct financial benefit to be gained from Environment likely to be significant to the business.
No new waste minimisation: globally, there is Why it matters to Fenner material environmental risks or incidents increasing taxation pressure on all aspects of We pride ourselves on promoting the highest waste reduction, pollution control or scarce were reported to the Board during the year.
standards of environmental care across all resource utilisation, whether that be landfill facets of our operation as we endeavour to The Group operates in a wide range of taxes, carbon taxes or water extraction levies.
contribute towards our strategic goal of legislative environments and cultures.
developing a strong, growing and resilient Waste minimisation is driven and managed at Consequently, the appropriate response to company.
We recognise the two-way nature of deliver environmental management is to the operating unit level.
All major environmental risk: Fenners activities have ensure that each operational location is fully manufacturing operations monitor their waste an impact on the wider environment and, aware and supported with respect to its local, emissions and all operating units comply with likewise, the environment has an impact on local environment legislation.
General waste national and international regulatory the activities of the Group.
management programmes and initiatives are obligations.
Accordingly, each operating unit has established their own local environmental encouraged and the recycling of materials With regard to our impact on the wider management system in line with the takes place where practical, either internally environment, our approach is founded upon or through external programmes with environmental Expectations in The principles of waste minimisation and business suppliers or other third parties.
Framework and the Group Environmental efficiency: environmental impact, in all its forms, is seen as being a wasteful use of Policy.
Currently, where local management Environmental risk believe that it provides a benefit, 28% of the resources and is counter to the operating The Group recognises the increase in public units goal of maximising efficiency.
Group is either accredited or working towards awareness of the climate change debate.
This Consequently, the Group is committed to accreditation under the internationally requires the Group to not only understand the identifying and minimising the risks of recognised ISO14001 scheme.
impact and potential risks our operations have pollution and other forms of environmental on the environment, but also the risk to our All acquisitions are subject to appropriate impact arising out of its operations.
We business from environmental or climatic environmental due diligence, which is proactively seek ways to reduce our events.
An example of where climatic events specifically extended to include environmental environmental impact to the lowest practical have seriously impeded the ability of our sites management systems and operational level.
We do this by ensuring that all to operate was the severe winter storms compliance.
operations and activities of the Group across the USA during early 2014.
This caused exemplify current environmental best a number of our facilities to shut down practice.
The Group Environmental Policy can be production for a number of days.
com What policies and practices are in Use of technology place?
In line with our Group Environmental Policy What are we doing?
The Group Environmental Policy clearly lays statement, the Group continues to invest in Waste minimisation out the chain of delegated accountability for video conferencing technology at its major The general principle adopted by the Group is managing our environmental performance.
We currently have over 30 one of waste minimisation in its broadest sense, Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has dedicated video conferencing suites whether that waste is energy, raw material or specific responsibility for the development of established across the Group.
Wasteful use of any resource is counter to policy and management systems.
allows closer collaboration and networking in the efficient running of any business and incurs Responsibility for each operating division is all aspects of business operation.
The facilities additional cost, either from suppliers or from delegated to the senior managing director are used for Executive Committee meetings and, at a local level, to a senior manager at disposal of the waste: therefore the and Operational reviews during the year.
This minimisation of manufacturing waste and each site, supported by in-house or third party has resulted in a reduction in required air professionals.
Each divisional managing energy usage are recognised as beneficial to travel by senior leaders leading to reduced director reports to the Board on a regular the Group, from both an environmental and greenhouse gas emissions as well as cost and basis and advises the Board immediately of commercial viewpoint.
There is also a more time savings.
Case study Environment Many of our existing operations, as well as new acquisitions, are located on sites that are Our ECS facility in Shanghai, China has recently many decades, even centuries, old.
This undertaken studies to improve the efficiency of presents risks and challenges as we deal with their steam system.
A major recommendation of legacy issues from activities in previous eras, the study was to install a flue gas heat recovery where environmental control was not so strict.
These are commonly The Group recognises and actively manages known as boiler economisers and have been the legacy environmental risk though local standard equipment in western manufacturing action plans, supported by Group oversight for some years.
Our boilers, although not old, where appropriate.
All new investment is predate the introduction of this technology as designed to meet or exceed local regulations standard in China.
to ensure that our impact on the local environment is continuously improving.
This equipment uses heat that would be ejected to atmosphere in the exhaust flue gases to Fenner undertakes regular reviews of its preheat the boiler feed water, with a consequent activities and the workings of The reduction in primary fuel required to convert to Environmental Policy to ensure it is steam, resulting in a 5% efficiency gain.
This comprehensive and effective, identifying equates to an annual reduction in greenhouse objectives and standards that will enable a gas emissions of over 200 tCO e and a saving of 2 demonstrable continuous improvement in 55,000 per year to the business.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 34 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Mandals in Norway supported a Highlights from the year Community charitable venture called Mindus, which Greenhouse gas emissions Why it matters to Fenner aims to help people who have struggled During the year, the Group has been recording Ensuring good relations and long-term with mental health problems or failed to its greenhouse gas GHG emissions to partnerships with the communities in which finish school, to find employment.
ensure compliance with the new carbon we work is fundamental to Fenners success.
reporting requirements under The Companies Mandals has provided work experience for We recognise that our business activities Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors a number of individuals, with some going could potentially have social and on to become full time employees.
Report Regulations 2013. environmental consequences for those communities and we always consider the The table below shows the Groups GHG data EGC in the USA coordinated and in tonnes for the last financial year from over impact of such activities as an integral part of participated in an annual blood drive 60 locations in more than 12 countries.
supporting the Houston and Gulf Coast region.
What policies and practices are in Total annual Emissions Secant Medical in the USA has place?
4 GHG intensity established a Helping Others Prosper Fenner recognises that the people who are 3 emissions 2014 Everyday HOPE Committee to support best placed to look after the interests of local 2014 tCO2e per m educational needs and assist families and communities are the people who live in those tCO2e revenue individuals in need.
Accordingly, support for the participated in the 2014 Pennsylvania Free communities in which we operate is devolved 1 Scope 1 39,705 54.27 Enterprise Week, a summer programme and driven at a local, rather than Group level, that offers high school juniors and seniors with operating units supporting and enhancing 2 Scope 2 73,117 99.95 a unique and challenging opportunity to employee efforts in their communities through see what it is like to run their own the application of the Groups resources.
The Groups Code of Business Conduct Hallite Wixom in the USA supported prohibits any political donations and no Hospitality House, which seeks to end Notes: political donations were made during the year.
hunger in the local community by 1 Scope 1 emissions are from those direct sources providing food to those in need.
that are owned by the Group e. g. from direct 2014, Hospitality House was in need of Over the year, the majority of operating units combustion of natural gas within our facilities canned goods, so Hallite held a boilers and heaters : fugitive gases are not chose to provide support to local causes, with included.
Christmas in July food drive to help a focus on health and education.
During the address the problem.
year, total charitable donations of 107,000 2 Scope 2 emissions comprise those emissions for 2013: 108,000 were made.
which the Group is indirectly responsible, excluding transmission and distribution losses Highlights from the year e. g. from the electricity we purchase to operate machinery or equipment.
Employees and operating units have given their time and helped raise funds for a variety 3 The calculation methodology is based on the of charities and projects over the past year.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol developed jointly by the Some examples include: World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
The ECS operation in Bracebridge, Canada 4 Due to the diverse range of products and services agreed to place an information radio offered by the Group, it is extremely difficult to station transmitter on their property for identify any universal production-based intensity the local community.
They also provided measure that is meaningful across the Group: the power needed to run the transmitter.
consequently, a fiscal intensity measure has been used in line with UK Government guidance.
Case study Community The Group uses a variety of energy sources.
The main contributors to GHG emissions are Instead of simply discarding kilometres south of the main island of Fiji electricity consumption, which accounts for fide-commissioned old laptops, ECS in in the Pacific Ocean.
There is little or no 61% of our emissions, and fuels, such as Australia has started refurbishing the infrastructure on the island and natural gas, coal and fuel oil, burnt on our laptops and providing them to schoolchildren typically had no access to premises which, combined, account for 29% Nabukelevuria Primary School on IT equipment.
Kadavu is a small island 150 All of our operating units manage their energy efficiency as part of their normal operating cost control.
Examples include: the purchase of new equipment with consideration of lifetime energy costs: studies underway to replace older boilers with more efficient modern boilers: and widespread utilisation of energy efficient lighting.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 35 Corporate Responsibility continued concerns they may have.
Calls to the remaining cases being appropriately Business behaviours helpline are free and the helpline operates addressed through further training, policy Why it matters to Fenner 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Given the improvements or disciplinary action at a local We understand that a well-run organisation is diversity of our workforce, reports can be level.
All whistleblowing incidents are one in which employees maintain high made in a wide range of languages.
All reported to the Audit Committee.
standards of integrity, behave ethically and reports are thoroughly investigated, with demonstrate responsible corporate behaviour.
Fenner recognises that gifts and hospitality remedial action taken as appropriate.
We believe that our corporate conduct and can potentially create improper influence and relationship building are key elements in What are we doing?
conflicts of interest, or the perception of a ensuring the long-term success of our The vast majority of operating units have, or conflict of interest.
We therefore have a business strategy.
Robust business are working towards, ISO 9001 or equivalent Corporate Gifts & Hospitality Policy, behaviours encourage the formation of status and each undertakes rigorous communicated to all operating units, successful partnerships with third parties customer satisfaction assessments, including regarding the receipt and provision of gifts throughout the Groups supply chain, thereby senior face-to-face meetings and regular and hospitality from and to third parties.
An creating additional business value.
customer surveys conducted both internally online gifts and hospitality register is available and by third parties.
Performance and the for use by all operating units.
What policies and practices are in timing and handling of any complaints are place?
routinely discussed at management meetings The Board has ultimate responsibility for the and are used as a key measurement in development and monitoring of the Groups determining the success of the operating unit.
policies relating to corporate behaviour and Complaints are regularly recorded and used for ensuring that those policies are to help operating units improve the service understood and communicated to employees.
Responsibility for ethical and behavioural Fenner expects that all business partners will standards in each division is cascaded via the Nicholas Hobson adhere to the high levels of business conduct senior managing director to the senior Chief Executive Officer that we require of ourselves.
Our standard manager at each operating unit.
11 November 2014 terms and conditions of business require both Notwithstanding this, all employees are suppliers and customers to comply with all personally responsible for adhering to and laws relating to anti-corruption as well as our applying these policies.
In addition, we expect Fenner is committed to doing business at all strategic partners and service customers to times in an ethical and transparent manner.
have H&S management systems that are The principles of openness, integrity and aligned with those of the Group.
accountability are enshrined within the Code Highlights from the year of Business Conduct, which sets out the Training has been provided to appropriate behavioural standards expected from all employees at an operational level on a variety employees.
The Code applies to all Fenner of business behaviours through seminars, employees, who are expected to comply fully meetings and poster campaigns.
Training on with the policy.
Any employee found to be in the Code of Business Conduct and supporting breach of the Code may be liable to policies is also provided to new hires during disciplinary action, up to and including induction.
During the year, the Company launched a The Code is an overarching policy, which is mandatory online training module covering supported by additional policies and bribery, corruption and the Fenner Code of procedures at both a Group and operational Business Conduct.
Over 1,200 employees level, including: across the Group were identified as having a Anti-trust Competition Policy: higher risk of exposure to bribery and corruption and have been required to undergo Anti-bribery & Corruption Policy: training.
The online module has been Corporate Gifts & Hospitality Policy: translated into several languages to ensure that training is capable of being provided to all Whistleblowing Policy: employees who are required to complete the training.
Employees receiving the training Email & Internet Use Policy: and include: Group Control Manual.
All senior management: Fenner encourages its employees to discuss All sales and purchasing teams: and any concerns that they may have regarding potentially unethical workplace behaviour Other employees who could potentially be with local management.
Should employees the subject of external influences.
feel uncomfortable raising an issue with local management, personnel are identified The independent whistleblowing helpline at both a divisional and Group level with received 12 calls 2013: 8 over the year from whom they can discuss concerns.
Fenner employees who wished to raise concerns also has a confidential and independent alleging unethical workplace behaviour.
whistleblowing helpline, which is available to Following thorough investigation, no action all employees who wish to raise any was required in 10 of the cases, with the Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 36
