Fidessa group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report continued Greenhouse gas emissions The legislation requires the Environmental In accordance with the Large and statement of relevant intensity It is important to Fidessas employees, Medium-sized Companies and Groups ratios.
This is an expression of the its customers and its suppliers that it Accounts and Reports Regulations quantity of emissions in relation to acts in an environmentally responsible 2008, Fidessa is required to make a quantifiable factor of the manner and it has endeavoured to certain disclosures concerning businesses activity.
Fidessa has manage the effect that it has on greenhouse gas emissions relating identified six such intensity ratios the environment and to support to the current and preceding as set out in the table below.
policy is regularly reviewed and is Intensity ratios published on its website and intranet.
tonnes of CO e per unit The quantity of Scope 2 emissions 2 Ratios of carbon emissions to: is set out in the table below.
As an office-based software and 2014 2013 services provider, Fidessa has no activities that pose major 2014 2013 Total revenue 0.04 0.04 environmental issues.
Usage of Carbon emissions Recurring revenue 0.04 0.04 energy to facilitate the computing tonnes of COe 10,187 10,067 2 requirements of its data centres and Operating profit 0.27 0.23 its employees, as well as international The GHG Protocol Corporate travel, are considered to be the Employees 6.10 6.02 Accounting and Reporting standard greatest environmental impacts revised edition and emission factors Number of connections associated with its daily operations.
from the UK Governments GHG to the network Other factors include the use of Conversion Factors Guidance 2013 community 1.97 2.15 electrical and electronic equipment, were used to calculate the quantity the consumption of water, the use Number of Fidessa users 0.42 0.42 of emissions.
of paper and the disposal of waste.
Fidessa calculated the emissions from On behalf of the Board Fidessa endeavours to minimise data available for its major operations energy and natural resource usage, and extrapolated these results to take Andy Malpass support the reduction and recycling account of the smaller operations.
Director of materials and ensure the legal Scope 1 data has not been included 13th February 2015 disposal of waste arising from the as it is not considered to be material.
Fidessa encourages employees to reduce their usage of those resources and sets policies and procedures to assist in this so that productivity is not adversely impacted.
