Fidessa group plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 training and career development will Corporate social responsibility Employees, employee and human rights involvement and equal be offered.
Fidessa recognises the importance opportunities of meeting globally recognised Fidessa is a service provider with its Achieving gender diversity in certain corporate responsibility standards employees as key stakeholders in the sectors, including the software and as illustrated by it continuing to be business.
It therefore aims to maintain technology sector, presents particular a constituent company in the an attractive place to work, where challenges when considering the FTSE4Good Index Series.
employees can develop successful profile of the available talent pool in and rewarding careers for themselves.
Fidessa has successfully The Board believes that Fidessa has It offers customised training achieved a good degree of gender a positive social impact through the programmes and career development diversity and has active female employment it creates, the payment opportunities for employees.
involvement at director, senior of local corporate, employment and management and throughout other sales taxes, its participation in Effective communication and management levels.
activities with local communities and openness with employees are vital Male Female its regular support of a number of and Fidessas internal communications fundraising activities for employee Directors 6 1 policy promotes the understanding nominated charities.
Employees are Other senior managers 9 1 and involvement of all employees in encouraged to follow good principles All employees 1,295 375 its business aims and performance.
of social behaviour, which are The policy of providing employees reflected in Fidessas internally Fidessa has policies specific to each with information about new products published social and ethics policy.
country in which it has employees, and services, operations and the Fidessa believes that engagement designed to ensure that it operates performance and development of with local communities helps support in a legal and ethical manner.
the overall business has continued the principles set out in its social and These include policies that, where through the intranet site, product ethics policy.
relevant, are related to health and seminars and interactive Group-wide safety, whistleblowing, antimeetings at which progress updates Fidessa is committed to respecting corruption, grievance, maternity, are given by senior management.
the human rights of individuals in paternity, adoption and parental leave, the UK and internationally.
Fidessa flexible working, learning and career recognises that it has an opportunity Fidessa is committed to continuing development, security and IT.
Fidessa to ensure that human rights are to be a diverse and inclusive place reviews its policies on a regular basis understood and observed in the areas to work and its employment policies, so that they comply with current that it operates and it supports the including the commitment to equal applicable laws and regulations and principles set out in the following opportunity, are designed to attract, tests them for effectiveness.
international standards: retain and motivate the very best employees regardless of colour, The health and safety of employees, UN Declaration of Human Rights: nationality, sex, marital status, sexual customers and visitors is of primary UN Guiding Principles on Business orientation, age, religion, disability or importance.
Fidessa is committed and Human Rights: and any other characteristic protected by to maintaining a safe and healthy Core Conventions of the law.
Applications for employment by working environment by managing its International Labour Organization.
disabled persons are always fully activities so as to avoid unnecessary considered, bearing in mind the Additionally, Fidessa believes that its or unacceptable risks.
Health and aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
policies relating to equality, equal safety audits and risk assessments Wherever possible the employment opportunities and anti-corruption also are carried out regularly.
Appropriate of employees who become disabled help avoid causing or contributing to information, training and supervision will be continued and appropriate negative human rights impacts.
are provided in support of this policy.
