Corporate responsibility We understand the vital role we play in creating strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies, and have continued to deliver our commitments to our people, customers and communities throughout the year.
Our approach never complacent and continue to work to improve our injury prevention Alongside the unrelenting march towards urbanisation and programme.
During 2014 15 we will be reinvigorating our programme to increasing congestion, we are responding to the emerging challenges build on the progress we have made and continue the momentum that of climate change and resource scarcity, population growth and global we have seen in previous years.
Our aim is to reinforce safety as a connectivity, shifting consumer expectations, and the ever increasing personal core value of each of our employees, and create an even role of technology in modern life.
stronger culture and climate of safety across all of our operations.
Leveraging our scale and global expertise to respond to our social, Valuing our people economic and environmental risks and opportunities as they arise over With 117,000 employees, our people are a key asset for the Group, the long term will help drive operating and financial performance and and strengthening our teams is vital to our ability to deliver our allow us to maintain responsible partnerships with our customers and transformation programme.
We are already innovating through the use of low carbon During the year, we launched a Group-wide diversity action plan to vehicle technology, finding new ways to meet changing customer drive forward our aspiration to be a diverse and inclusive organisation.
expectations, doing more with fewer resources and investing in the We believe that diversity brings benefits for our customers, communities future potential of our people and our communities.
Valuing our differences and drawing on our collective In this section we highlight our corporate responsibility priorities and knowledge and experience helps us develop new services, open up new performance this year.
Further information can be found in our 2014 markets and broaden our customer base.
Transport is not traditionally a Corporate Responsibility Report, available on our website.
diverse sector, but our diversity action plan is designed to address this in a systematic way over the coming years.
Dedicated to safety Always front of mind, safety is our way of life.
Our goal is zero injuries Continued investment in our employees is fundamental to positioning and we continue to evolve and develop our safety programmes to FirstGroup as an employer of choice.
In 2013 14 we launched a achieve this across FirstGroup.
We also recognise that work, health comprehensive development offering for our top 350 leaders across and wellbeing are closely linked, and we collaborate with our the business in the UK and North America, designed to support and employees to create safe, supportive work environments and accelerate the delivery of our vision, strategy and values.
Significant promote the broader benefits of a healthy lifestyle.
work was also undertaken in 2013 14 to further develop and improve our driver training approach, with particular focus on safe driving and After seeing improvement over a number of years, and very strong improved customer service.
The programme, which piloted this year performance in 2012 13, the rate of progress against our safety targets and will be rolled out across the business in 2014 15, is expected to has slowed this year.
Performance has been affected by a number of deliver significant improvements in accident rates particularly amongst issues, not least the historically severe winter weather conditions new drivers and to reduce customer complaints.
experienced by our divisions in North America in the last quarter of 2013 14.
This can be seen, for example, in the increased rate of vehicle 2013 14 has also been an important year of progress in raising collisions compared with the same three months of the previous year.
employee engagement across the Group, with additional plans for 2014 15 underway.
We want to inspire, develop and recognise our There were no employee fatalities in 2013 14, although sadly there people because we know that organisations with engaged employees were three passenger fatalities: one in Greyhound and two in UK Bus.
deliver higher quality customer service and are safer, more profitable, The impact of tragic incidents such as these cannot be overestimated productive and innovative.
and they reaffirm the importance of our goal of zero injuries.
We are Greener, cleaner futures for our communities We take a systematic approach to managing our impacts on the Diversity snapshot at 31 March 2014: environment, with Group-wide policies, standards and robust targets for our most material impacts, including energy and climate change, air 1 2 T otal employees Senior managers Board Directors emissions, waste and water.
Notably, we generate a significant amount of greenhouse gas GHG emissions through our operations: a major contributor to climate change.
More than 94% of our emissions come from powering our road and rail fleets with the remainder from energy use in our buildings and from business travel, so the focus of our climate change mitigation strategy is on innovation and investment in energy efficiency and low carbon vehicle technology.
The following table provides a summary of the emissions for which we are responsible.
Our absolute carbon emissions reduced by 2.86% this Female 39% Female 16% Female 0% year to 2,836,758 tonnes of CO e. This is a 3.48% reduction against 2 Male 61% Male 84% Male 100% our 2010 11 baseline, and a result of our ongoing focus on fuel efficiency.
Our normalised emissions reduced by 0.20% to 422 tonnes 1 The 342 members of our top leadership programme.
2 of CO e per 1m of revenue and the longer term trend shows a 7.80% Following recently announced changes to the Board which take effect in June 2 2014, the ratio of Board Directors will be 11% female : 89% male.
All divisions are on track to FirstGroup 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility We understand the vital role we play in creating strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies, and have continued to deliver our commitments to our people, customers and communities throughout the year.
meet their individual carbon reduction targets per passenger and on time performance can be found in the Business Review and or per vehicle km set for 2015 16 2014 15 for UK Rail against Key Performance Indicators sections of this report.
Helping our communities to prosper Greenhouse gas emissions With our knowledge of local issues, and strengthened by our wider Tonnes of carbon dioxide expertise, insights and skills, we maintain responsible partnerships with equivalent CO e 2014 2013 2012 2 our customers and communities and aim to be their primary source of solutions for the ever growing problem of congestion.
We believe Scope 1 2,477,381 2,536,389 2,588,285 that excellence in community engagement is critical to sustaining and Scope 2 344,076 368,956 361,281 improving the long term partnerships we have with our key stakeholders, Scope 3 3,862 3,401 3,542 including our industry partners, customers, government and political stakeholders, and all those within our local communities.
Drawing on Out of scope 11,439 11,444 11,969 our global expertise in this area we have now developed a consistent Total tonnes of CO e 2,836,758 2,920,190 2,965,077 2 framework for community engagement, supported by best practice tools Tonnes of CO e per 1m and case studies.
During 2014 15 we will continue to roll out the framework 2 revenue 422 423 444 across the Group.
One of the ways we engage with our communities is by developing Scope 1 direct emissions from fuel usage by our vehicles, both long term partnerships with charitable organisations.
Our charitable owned and leased, and from gas used in our buildings programmes focus on those areas where we believe we can deploy Scope 2 indirect emissions from electricity used in our buildings our scale and expertise to achieve the greatest impact and deliver the and to power our electric rail fleet maximum shared value to our business and local communities.
For Scope 3 other indirect emissions from business travel by air example, through our partnership with leading charity, Guide Dogs, we have developed bespoke training for our 17,000 UK Bus drivers, Out of scope from burning biofuels in our vehicles from our helping to increase the confidence of people who are blind or partially UK Bus division, reported in line with DEFRA reporting guidelines sighted to use the bus.
During 2013 14 we carried out a robust The 2014 scope 1 and 2 CO e data included in this table has been independently 2 consultation across our business to review the focus of our charitable verified by Carbon Credentials Energy Services Ltd and is covered by an giving programmes and will launch a refreshed programme in 2014 15. assurance report which is available in full on our website.
Verification activities were performed in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2006.
Human rights FirstGroup recognises all human rights as defined in the United Nations Our reporting follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, applying the financial control approach to our Universal Declaration of Human Rights and supports the principles organisational reporting boundary with a materiality threshold set at 5%.
set out in the International Labour Organization Declaration on We have reported all material emission sources using the following Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Guidelines for emission factors: Multinational Enterprises established by the Organisation for Economic DEFRA DECC UK Government conversion factors for GHG Company Cooperation and Development OECD.
Our Corporate Responsibility Reporting 2013 Policy available on our website is aimed at translating that support World Resources Institute 2008 GHG Protocol tool for Mobile into guidelines and standards that set a common approach Combustion, Version 2.2 for the Group and provide practical guidance for our managers and Environmental Protection Agency Emission Factors for GHG Inventories employees on the ground.
We are committed to ensuring that our operations do not infringe human rights, in particular: The reporting period is defined as 1 April to 31 March, in line with the Companys financial year.
However, emissions from energy consumption We will conduct every aspect of our business with honesty, integrity within buildings in our North American operations are reported by calendar year due to availability of consumption data.
In addition, scope 2 emissions and openness, respecting human rights and the interests of our from electricity consumption in North America were calculated using CO employees, customers and third parties, as detailed in our Code 2 and not CO e due to limited conversion factors being available.
Fugitive 2 of Business Ethics emissions from air conditioning equipment have been excluded this year but we are taking steps to measure and report on this next year.
A full list We are committed to creating and maintaining a safe and healthy of exclusions can be found in our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report.
working environment for our employees, customers and the community The Companys baseline year is 2010 11.
The same baseline year is also We recognise our employees rights to freedom of association and used in FirstGroups climate change strategy, which contains the Groups have a high degree of unionisation across our businesses both in carbon reduction strategy and targets for 2015 16. the UK and North America Through our procurement processes enshrined in our Supplier Code Keeping people moving of Conduct, and Procurement and Supplier Management Policy, we Our customers and passengers are at the heart of everything we do.
seek to ensure that goods and services are from sources that do not In 2013 14 we saw the impact of abnormally severe winter weather jeopardise human rights, safety or the environment, and expect on punctuality and customer satisfaction in some areas within the suppliers to adhere to business principles consistent with our own.
Group, but improvements have continued across the majority of our businesses.
More information on customer satisfaction, punctuality FirstGroup 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
