OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability is a key part of our business modeland we  indelivering shareholder value.
Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as BACKGROUND Alent has a global base of manufacturing facilities and is beingessential to the attainment of Group goals, asismaintaining a reputation for integrity in all business serving customers in more than 100 countries worldwide.
Our facilities are close to our customers to allow us to and other dealings, both with customers and suppliers.
TheAlent Code defines how we must compete vigorously operate in just in time supply chains.
We therefore have a relatively large number of smalland medium-sized andhonestly.
facilities located close to our customers throughout the We believe we can only achieve our goals through the worlds major economic regions, rather than large, efforts of our people.
Job satisfaction requires working centralised factories supplying customers worldwide.
environments that motivate our people, together with Ourmanufacturing processes are not energy intensive opportunities for training and development to maximise total energy costs are approximately 1% of revenue personal potential.
All of our companies must ensure that anddo notproduce large quantities of hazardous or recruitment, training, promotion, career development, otherwastes and emissions.
termination and similar employment-related issues are based on individual ability, achievement, experience We recognise that appropriate attention to the fulfilment andconduct without regard to race, colour, nationality, ofour corporate responsibilities can enhance our overall culture, ethnic origin, religion, gender, sexual orientation, performance.
In structuring our approach to the various age, disability or any other reason not related to job aspects of corporate social responsibility, we take account performance or prohibited by applicable law.
of guidelines and statements issued by stakeholder representatives and other regulatory bodies from around We are committed to the highest standards of corporate the world.
Social, environmental, health, safety and ethical governance and transparent investor communication, matters are reviewed by the Board, including the impact asdiscussed in more detail in the Governance section such matters may have on our management of risk.
Our sustainability approach is embedded in our business We seek to be a good corporate citizen wherever we through four key areas: conduct business, to observe all national and local laws 1.
OUR CODE OF CONDUCT: and take into account regional and local concerns, customs and traditions.
requiring all of our businesses and our people to comply with the highest standards of legal and ethical behaviour: The Alent Code requires all of its people, officers and 2.
OUR PEOPLE: Directors to have a duty of loyalty to the Group.
Personal investing in and developing our most valued asset: interests that do, may or might appear to conflict with ourpeople: Group interests must be avoided at all times.
OUR PRODUCTS & SERVICES: Approach to anti-bribery and corruption training developing innovative products and services which help The Alent Code and its policies on anti-bribery and our customers lower their environmental impact: and corruption require that employees and others working on behalf of the Company do not engage in any form of 4.
OUR HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT: bribery or corruption.
protecting the health and safety of our people, contractors, customers and the general public, and Our anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme reducing energy consumption, water use and waste in has been implemented globally via an e-learning training ouroperations.
New employees, as relevant, are required to complete the e-learning training as part of their inductionprocess.
OUR CODE OF CONDUCT The Group has a Code of Conduct the Alent Code, Employee helpline which is obligatory and sets out the standards expected of We have a 24-hour employee business concern helpline everyone, without exception, who works for Alent in any of telephone and email facility.
This is an independent its worldwide operations.
The Alent Code emphasises our andconfidential service through which our people commitment to ethics and compliance with the law, and worldwide may register any concerns about any incorrect sets out required standards of legal and ethical behaviour.
or irregular practices they perceive in our workplace Everyone within the Group is accountable for upholding orbusiness environments.
The Alent Code is reproduced in full on the The Alent Code sets out clear and simple principles Groups website.
covering: customers: products and services: employees: investors: society and local communities: health, safetyand the environment: conflicts of interest: andcompetitors.
26 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 2.
OUR PEOPLE Total headcount We believe in the importance of investing in and developing our most valued asset: our people.
We utilise avariety of programmes tailored to help our people Female enhance their performance, set and achieve objectives, 27% and develop their leadership skills.
In addition, we recognise and reward their high performance andachievements.
Employment development Male We believe our people are key to our competitive 73% advantage and we have created comprehensive development opportunities to introduce, reinforce andfurther strengthen their special talents.
: EDGE Employee Development Generates Excellence programmes: Alent University multi-language e-learning platform : Senior management Six Sigma a system designed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of all business processes: Female Alent leadership programmes: 17% Alent technical training: and education training reimbursement.
Male In support of our commitment to our people and their 83% development, we launched Alent University, a multilanguage online learning management system to enhance our various employee development opportunities and further define our suite of blended learning programmes.
Currently we are looking to expandour e-learning opportunities as well as our compliance outreach with a suite of multi-language corecompliance training to further develop our corporatesocial responsibilities.
Board In addition to our development opportunities, we arecommitted to providing competitive pay and a comprehensive benefits package to attract and retain Female thebest people.
Our plans and initiatives include 25% healthand welfare plans, incentive plans, wellness opportunities, work life benefits, and market benchmark compensation plans.
Male We believe that these initiatives are an important reason 75% for our ability to consistently help create added value for our customers, allowing us to outperform many other competitors in our industry segments.
Charitable work We are committed to being a responsible corporate citizenthrough support for appropriate charitable Human rights projects, organisations and charities.
The needs of the We recognise our responsibility to respect and support communities in which we operate are varied and diverse human rights.
Therefore the working conditions of our and although there are no global initiatives, there are people are in compliance with the internationally numerous grassroots charitable efforts carried out recognised standards and laws of the countries in which withinthe regions.
Furthermore we acknowledge and support Furthermore, employees are encouraged to act as the principles of the eight core conventions that the responsible and responsive citizens and to support International Labour Organisation has identified as being projects, organisations and services that work towards fundamental to the rights of people in the workplace.
thecommon good and improvement of their community and society.
Additionally, as part of our Celebrating The Alent Human Rights policy is reproduced Achievement Programme, we award employees for their in full on the Groups website.
extraordinary demonstration of Alent values in society under the Social Responsibility award category.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 27 OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Diversity 3.
OUR PRODUCTS & SERVICES We are committed to diversity and inclusion, not only in Green technologies Alent has long been committed to developing products response to compliance requirements, but also because we believe it is the right thing to do.
We embrace the and services that help its customers lower their environmental impact.
Our product technology focus cultures of countries where we do business by: istodevelop  products, many linking diversity initiatives to the Groups strategic thatare lead-free, halogen-free and hexavalent-free.
business plans: Wecollaborate with our customers, technology partners, and the worlds leading manufacturers, to ensure that identifying internal barriers to success: ourgreen technologies create value by meeting current eliminating bias and discrimination from employment and future performance, productivity, design, profitability, policies and practices: safety and regulatory requirements.
ensuring advancement opportunities are provided to We continue to invest in and expand our capabilities to allemployees: and take back metal waste streams and responsibly recycle supporting the Groups policies on diversity that waste into high purity raw materials for reuse in our manufacturing processes.
Conflict minerals Over the past year, we have further defined our global Alent understands the seriousness of the possibility that diversity initiatives through a more formalised Diversity tinmined in conflict areas of the Democratic Republic of Outreach Initiative which includes: Congo DRC may become part of the electronics supply chain.
Moreover, we understand that profits from such tin the creation of a Global Diversity Council, comprising mining in conflict areas may be encouraging certain senior and middle management members, to study unfair labour practices or other human rights violations gender diversity issues and propose initiatives to inthe DRC.
We are committed to ensuring that minerals increase gender diversity throughout Alent: and from conflict mines do not enter our supply chain.
increased development of Talent Pipeline programmes focusing on recruitment and succession management 4.
OUR HEALTH, SAFETY AND as a process for identifying potential candidates for key ENVIRONMENT HS&E positions including specific actions related to increasing Alents policy is to operate in a manner which preserves the number of women candidates.
health, safety and a sound environment.
For our businesses worldwide, the minimum acceptable standard The Board strongly supports the spirit of the Davies Report is to meet their legal HS&E obligations.
The aim is Women on Boards.
The importance of gender diversity continuous improvement.
isrecognised in our commitment to recruit, develop and promote people on merit at all levels across the Group.
We believe that good HS&E performance is an integral part of efficient and profitable business management.
We are committed to gender-balanced leadership and Werecognise that these matters rank equally in want to ensure that we attract and retain the best people importance with operational responsibilities and that for our business.
17% of our senior managers and 33% of our success in these areas depends on the involvement supervisors are women.
Additionally, 25% of our Board is andcommitment of everyone in the organisation.
Our senior management and Board support our diversity and inclusion strategy and are focused on ways to The Board has overall responsibility for our HS&E policy improve the number of women at both the executive and andfor monitoring its implementation.
Executives and management level in the future, to ensure that we generate linemanagers at all levels are directly responsible for innovative and creative thinking for our business.
HS&Ematters in the operations under their control.
Particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: The Alent Diversity policy is reproduced in full on the Groups website.
regulatory compliance: compliance with air, water andwaste emissions, and industrial hygiene criteria: health and safety performance: protecting the health and safety of our people, contractors, customers and the general public: and environmental performance: reducing energy consumption, water usage and greenhouse gasemissions.
28 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Total recordable injury rate All of our manufacturing locations are certified to ISO TRIR 14001, the international standard for environmental management systems.
In addition, 20 of our operations are 4 certified to OHSAS 18001, the international occupational health and safety management system.
Certification to these international standards is not appropriate for all 3 facilities, particularly smaller ones and those with very limited environmental, health and safety impact.
All products are reviewed for correct labelling, packaging, 2 2.00 2.00 transport documentation, and supporting safety data documents including Globally Harmonised Safety Sheets to support global market and commerce requirements.
1 0.68 0.60 Regulatory actions against Alent companies have been at a low level for several years.
We monitor all EHS 0 2013 2014 regulatory activities globally and focus on correcting any deficiencies.
None of these issues have been significant, Alent Industry benchmark Benchmark data for 2014 yet to be finalised but all matters are taken seriously and corrective actions put in place to prevent reoccurrence.
Like many manufacturers, some of our operations have Loss work incident rate potential environmental liabilities because of past LWIR operations at their current or former sites.
Where remediation is required, we work with external specialists 0.8 and with government authorities to ensure that 0.7 remediation is conducted effectively and efficiently.
0.6 REACH Alent ensures worldwide compliance with REACH 0.5 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.46 Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction 0.4 ofChemicals by a central coordination of all REACH 0.3 related obligations.
0.2 RoHS We continue to effectively address RoHS Restriction of 0.1 Hazardous Substances and any customer-required 0.0 2013 2014 restricted substance management through proactive contact with our suppliers and continued sampling of Alent Industry benchmark Benchmark data for 2014 yet to be finalised materials deemed high risk.
HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR measures the number Our operations are impacted by the health and safety of recordable injuries illnesses per 100 workers.
In 2014, risks associated with manufacturing and other activities weachieved a TRIR of 0.60.
Lost Work Incident Rate LWIR within the countries in which we operate.
Our HS&E tracks the number of injuries illnesses per 100 workers with management programmes are designed to be forwardone day or more away from work.
Our 2014 LWIR was 0.46. looking in the identification, management and mitigation These areas continue to be a focus for the business, with of HS&E risks.
both rates below the industry benchmark of 2.00 for TRIR and 0.50 for LWIR.
We utilise audits, inspections and risk analysis to assess and continually improve our safety programmes.
Both ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE management systems and compliance audits are Energy consumption performed and results are shared across the organisation.
Our manufacturing processes are not energy intensive and do not produce large quantities of air emissions.
Safety best practise bulletins serve as a concise platform Weoperate a programme aimed at reducing energy use toconvey critical safety information and programmes that and its associated emissions of greenhouse gases GHG.
can be deployed throughout the Group in a timely manner.
We also leverage our extensive Six Sigma programme to Bulletins released in 2014 covered topics such as storage identify and execute projects for the reduction of energy and handling of flammable and combustible liquids, consumption at our facilities around the world.
chemical compatibility, electrical system maintenance, static electricity and equipment critical parts.
In 2014, our manufacturing operations consumed 280,368million British thermal units MM Btu of energy.
Global incident rate Ofthis 117,060 MM Btu was electricity and steam use We use a number of metrics to evaluate health and safety indirect energy.
The remainder of our energy use performance globally.
All of our facilities report injuries in consisted of natural gas, and fuel oil direct energy.
accordance with United States Department of Labor Note:In calculating energy consumption, we use the Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA USnational average to convert KWh to MM Btu.
Our incident rates are compared toa NAICS 325 benchmark for chemical manufacturing tracked by the United States Department of Labor Bureau of Labor & Statistics.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 29 OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED GHG emissions Yearly GHG emissions scope breakdown Our methodology for measuring GHG emissions follows MTCO E 2 the Greenhouse Gas Protocols of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World 14,000 Resource Institute and makes use of emission factors in 13,295 13,288 accordance with UK Department for Environment Food &Rural Affairs Defra and Department of Energy and 10,500 10,284 Climate Change DECC guidelines.
Previous years 9,574 calculated 2010-2013 have been updated, in accordance with accepted methodologies, using the 7,000 Defra emission factors to provide a consistent comparison with the 2014 calculated values.
We report direct and indirect GHG emissions in terms of CO2-equivalents 3,500 CO2-e.
Direct GHG emissions are those that occur from stationary and mobile sources that we own or control.
These emissions are also referred to as Scope 1 0 2013 2014 emissions.
Indirect emissions, or Scope 2 emissions, are Scope 1 Scope 2 related to the use or purchase of electricity and steam.
We have added an intensity normalisation ratio to further measure our performance in this area.
We report on GHG intensity Margin over Material MOM as it effectively removes MTCO E MOM 2 fluctuations in material cost from the calculations andisthe best gauge for our business.
0.08 We have collected fuel and electrical usage data from all 0.07 0.077 of our major manufacturing locations and major sites to 0.075 0.06 generate GHG emission data since 2010.
This year we expanded the GHG emission review to also include all 0.05 offices and warehouses under our control to calculate a 0.04 more complete GHG impact for Alent consistent with GHG 0.03 reporting methodologies.
This is not an easy calculation, since in most cases we do not have direct readings of 0.02 energy used at these locations.
We are using methods of 0.01 estimating typically Scope 2 electricity consumption GHG 0.0 emission on square footage basis for the additional space 2013 2014 to obtain the GHG impact.
These methods are generated by approved agencies and are generally accepted.
This year we also completed a refrigerant inventory review based on direct data.
The additional space of offices to highlight the use of refrigerant type materials and to andwarehouses combined to an additional 4,588 MTCO2 determine potential GHG emission sources due to its emission to the above Scope 2 total.
We will be reviewing highglobal warming potential GWP.
This review found this estimated data in the upcoming year to work this into that GHG emission from this source were insignificant the total data to get a total picture of GHG emissions.
approximately 259 MT CO2e in normal operation of Water Use theserefrigerant systems.
This small number is in part This is the first year we have reviewed our water usage dueto the usage of R-22 at many facilities, which is an inmore detail.
Our major operations used 175,574 cubic HCFC , regulated as an ozone metres of water for process and domestic use in 2014. depleting substance and not included in GHG inventories Mostof our operations are not very water dependant, even though it has a high GWP.
Usage of R-22 continues butone of our businesses uses water as a raw material tobe phased out worldwide, in accordance with the inits products and process operations.
In the upcoming Montreal Protocol, and replaced with other GHG year, we will develop a programme to break down this regulated refrigerants.
We will review this inventory usage more specifically and review opportunities to onanannual basis to monitor this changeover.
In 2014, we had a total of 22,862 metric tons of GHG emissions, made up of 9,574 metric tons of direct scope 1 The Alent HS&E policy is reproduced and 13,288 metric tons of indirect scope 2 GHG emissions in full on the Groups website.
30 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
