Social and Sustainability Report 1 2 3 4 Sustainability: Advance and enhance 4 thesustainability of our business Mining is an essential activity that creates valueat the local and global level.
Yet, as the social and environmental challenges facing theindustry grow, finding solutions to these challenges requires exceptional commitment, operational excellence and innovation.
go for additional support, with an emphasis on using the behavioural Maturity of our HSECR system compass for decision-making.
Managerial workshops went further to We rely on a sound management system to support our sustainability stress the practical requirements of their role as leaders in enabling performance.
To monitor the maturity of this system, an independent andsupporting business ethics and integrity.
audit is conducted semi-annually by  PwC, In 2015 we will extend the training programme to unionised workers and which assesses progress made on the strategy, structure, processes, contractors, and conduct a review of HR processes to address ethics people and technology.
The system was determined to have reached andintegrity considerations.
a maturity level of 84% 76% in 2013 against our 2011-2016 action plan objectives: we are on track to achieving a fully integrated HSECR system The Honour Commission received 38 reports of unethical behaviour by our 2016 target.
Of these, 36 were received via the Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblowing line, one by safe mail, and another communicated We are also committed to operating in conformity with ISO 14001 directly.
The reports were grouped into 21 cases for investigation once environmental impact and OHSAS 18001 occupational health and duplicates were eliminated: one case was deemed trivial and ruled out, safety standards: these management systems combine well into and of the remaining 20 cases investigated, 12 were resolved and eight oneintegrated system.
Cinega, Penmont and Fresnillo obtained their remain under investigation.
Sanctions were levied in seven cases while integrated certification in 2014, while Saucito made significant progress.
four required reinforcements of controls.
In one case the Commission didnotfind conclusive evidence of unethical behaviour.
Culture and ethics Fresnillos Code of Conduct is a set of rules and principles that guide Honour Commission % Case investigation ourbehaviours and actions.
The cornerstone of this Code is our values: Trust Personnel management 40 Bribery corruption 30 Responsibility Fraud 20 Integrity Others 10 Loyalty Safety Training our people to make better decisions has been a crucial elementof our anti-bribery and anti-corruption strategy: the scope ofour online training programme and evaluation has broadened to Personnel management includes harassment, malfeasance and conflict of interest, among others.
Workshops help embed ethics and integrity into our culture.
In 2014 PwC Awards London guided the design of masterclasses and employee workshops, In 2014 Fresnillo plc was recognised by the Mexican Confederation and rolled out training for our managers, 20 of whom were selected to of Industrial Chambers CONCAMIN with its prestigious Ethics and become trainers in the employee workshops.
From a practical standpoint, Values inIndustry award.
We were also recognised with the Socially the workshops reinforce how to apply Fresnillo policies and where to Responsible Company award granted by the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy CEMEFI.
Other awards and certifications granted in 2014 are as detailed herein under their relevant categories.
The ethics and integrity programme in numbers: 91% of our people in leadership roles took the masterclass session with Other reports professional trainers from PwC London We participate in the climate change and water programmes of the 20 leaders were trained as trainers for the employee workshops Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and the Mexican GHG disclosure programme GEI Mxico.
96% of all non-unionised employees were trained and 88% of our engineer interns | 80 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
