Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Internal Audit services are provided to the Company under a Whistleblowing arrangements Shared Services Agreement between the Company and Industrias The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the adequacy of PeolesS.
A. fide C. V. The internal audit work plan for 2015 was whistleblowing arrangements and ensuring that appropriate investigation presented to and approved by the Audit Committee at its October of any whistleblowing incidents has been undertaken.
The Committee reviewed the resourcing of the Internal Audit function and whether it remains appropriate.
The Committee The Groups arrangements for enabling employees to raise concerns is satisfied that Internal Audit reports to the Committee from a fully about financial and non-financial improprieties have developed over independent perspective.
the past few years, prompted in part by the requirements of the UKBribery Act.
An internal body called the Honour Commission has As part of its review of the Committees work in 2014, Independent been established to oversee these arrangements.
The terms of reference Audit Limited reviewed progress against the internal audit development of the Honour Commission also embrace the procedures adopted action plan developed following its full external review in 2012 and in response to the Bribery Act, and money laundering.
The Honour were satisfied that good progress has been made.
This informed the Commission, comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer, Committees review of internal audit effectiveness over the year based the Compliance Officer currently the Chief Financial Officer, the Director on its regular consideration of the factors set out above and its regular of Internal Audit, the Vice President of Exploration and the Legal Manager.
interaction with the senior auditors.
The Audit Committee regularly receives reports from management In the current year the Audit Committee monitored discussions with concerning the discussions and decisions of the Honour Commission.
Internal Audit and executive management to align the internal control The Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders to environment with the organisational growth of the Group.
This has anonymously via an independent third party report violations to the been made easier by Internal Audits realignment of their focus onto Groups Code of Conduct.
The results are audited by an independent the controls surrounding the major operating risks across the operating thirdparty and classified into 25 different categories including but not divisions that concern management.
limited to: high-risk conditions, violence, fraud, inappropriate use of The Internal Audit team seek to complete audits of all the operating confidential information, accounting irregularities, conflict of interest, risks across all of the Fresnillo Groups mining assets on a regular basis.
client complaints, theft, unethical treatment of clients, unethical Particular focus continues to be placed on auditing the Companys treatment of suppliers, discrimination, falsification of company records, new mines to ensure that proper procedures are implemented from improper use of assets, bribery and sexual harassment.
the beginning in those new operations.
The Audit Committee receives Following managements efforts to embed the understanding presentations and updates from the Internal Audit department at each of all employees as to what ethical behaviour constitutes and its of its meetings throughout the year.
At each meeting during the year, the encouragement to report any inappropriate behaviour or actions, there Audit Committee has focused on the progress made by management has been a significant increase in the number of reports being submitted.
in dealing with red flag items raised during internal audit visits to The issues reported have all related to minor local operational and ensure that the management responses to remediation are appropriate human resources issues and have been investigated by the Honour and timely.
Commission and appropriate action taken.
The Audit Committee The Head of Internal Audit meets with the members of the Audit considers that this is good evidence that the Companys whistleblowing Committee without management present at least twice a year and procedures are now producing results and indicate that the programme also attends the Committee meetings in full.
He is mandated to advise isoperating satisfactorily.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee if there are any issues which he considers members of the Audit Committee should be made aware of.
Internal Audit There were none in 2014.
The role of the Audit Committee is to review and monitor the Internal Audit function, amongst others through: ensuring that the internal auditors have a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee: closely monitoring the scope of services provided by Internal Audit by agreeing Internal Audits work plan upfront and agreeing any subsequent changes to the plan: considering the level and quality of the resources within the department and its appropriateness to the needs of the Fresnillo Group: setting annual objectives and influencing the priorities oftheInternalAudit function: ensuring adequate recognition and development of the members ofthe team: and periodically commissioning an external review ofthe Internal Audit department.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 137
