CSR performance in 2014 A snapshot of some of our key 2014 CSR highlights CSR achievements during 2014 Securing our environment Securing our communities G4S total carbon footprint in 2014 was Conducted studies of the economic impact of G4S within the UK, demonstrating total contribution to the UK economy of 538,303 t CO e 2 1.74bn Achieved a carbon intensity of 76.3 t CO e per 2 m revenue in 2014, representing a reduction of Invested approximately 6.3% 1.9m since 2013. in charitable community programmes Measured 56% of the waste generated by the group, and welfare programmes for employees.
totalling 10,400 tonnes of mixed waste with 18% diverted from landfill.
Matched Measured 64% of the groups water usage with a total consumption of 1,678,000 litres.
38,000 of employee fundraising for local community good causes.
Installed telematics technology into a further 114 UK-based vehicles, bringing the total number of UK-based Supported more than 1,000 community projects vehicles fitted with telematics to almost 2,000.
The use across 74 countries, including: of this technology helps to reduce fuel and maintenance Bhubesi Pride Africa costs, while improving driver safety.
India Vision Foundation India Achieved an Energy Star rating at the headquarters Bromley by Bow Centre UK.
Energy Star-certified buildings generate lower greenhouse gas emissions than typical buildings.
174 174 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Safeguarding our integrity Securing our people Initiated a programme to reinvigorate our group Established Safety first as a new group value.
values across all business practices.
Developed a health and safety management framework Continued embedding our human rights framework into the on which businesses can base their approach to business, including risk assessment and due-diligence processes.
ensure that they embed health and safety into their business practices.
Implemented a governance, risk and compliance system and process which includes human rights, business Implemented performance objectives related ethics and labour rights reviews.
to health and safety for all senior business leaders.
Completed a planned reorganisation of Group Risk Extended the Driving Force Rules campaign and Internal Audit departments, increasing the resources to all regions.
available and expanding the remit to reflect a risk-based Provided health and safety training to our global audit approach providing assurance on key risk areas leadership team.
and adherence to the updated enterprise risk Completed six health and safety critical country management systems.
reviews in countries where serious incidents Commissioned an independent human rights and legal occurred during the year.
review of G4S operations in Israel and the West Bank.
Enhanced the monitoring of health and safety key Completed a review of the groups whistleblowing performance indicator KPI performance, particularly policy and processes against the principles of the in respect of incident investigations.
UK Whistleblowing Commissions Code of Practice.
Implemented a new senior management Completed onboarding tool.
Extended our talent management system to capture 112 more data on the wider employee population.
on-site internal audits, including measurement Launched a new senior leadership development of compliance with business ethics standards.
programme with attendance from all six regions.
Conducted Continued to support businesses embedding cultural awareness training.
120 Ongoing implementation of the actions arising from the human rights country risk assessments 2013 global employee engagement survey, such as a as part of regular heatmap reviews.
values based leadership programme in the UK.
Signed a commitment to the UN Global Compact Business for Peace platform, promoting the positive change that business may bring to former conflict environments by enabling stability, development and advancement of peace.
For more information, visit: www.
com csr Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 175 175 Application of FRS 101 On 1 January 2015 old UK GAAP used in the preparation of the parent company financial statements ceased to exist.
We have the option to adopt one of three reporting regimes: 1 the EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, already used for the preparation of the groups consolidated financial statements: 2 a new reporting regime known as the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework permitting entities that otherwise apply the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of IFRS to adopt a reduced level of disclosure for their individual financial statements: or 3 FRS 102, which is a modification of FRS for small and medium enterprises.
We are proposing that the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework will be applied for the individual financial statements of the company i. e. the parent company financial statements for financial years beginning on and after 1 January 2015, allowing the parent company to use the same accounting framework as is utilised in the consolidated financial statements for the group.
The framework permitted by FRS 101 reduces disclosures covering a wide range of topics including cash flow statements, financial instruments, fair value measurement, share-based payments and related party transactions, which would already be provided in the groups consolidated financial statements.
A brief narrative summary of the disclosure exemptions adopted under FRS 101 will be disclosed in the notes to the individual financial statements of the company.
There may also be some presentational changes in the individual financial statements of the parent company.
The parent companys accounts will still be prepared to meet the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 including giving a true and fair view of the companys assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss.
This means the parent company will therefore always be required to include in its accounts all information relevant to shareholders and necessary to show a true and fair view.
For further information about FRS 101 please visit: http: www.
com en technical financial-reporting  Before an entity can apply the reduced disclosure framework it is required to inform its shareholders and provide a reasonable opportunity for its shareholders to object.
The company will not be able to adopt the reduced disclosure framework if a shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or more of the total allotted shares in the company object.
If you have any objections to the company applying the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework to the individual financial statements of the parent company, please notify us in writing to the Company Secretary, G4S plc at The Manor, Manor Royal, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 9UN on or before 29 May 2015.
176 176 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014
