Sustainability Constructing a sustainable future Health and safety P34 Accident Frequency Rate 02 1 target of 0.13 01 03 06 04 05 1 0.14 Galliford Trys longterm future 1.
Against our more stringent internal definition of accidents resulting in and strategyfor disciplined We place the more than three days absence.
highest priority on growth rely on us positively healthand safety managing the fundamentals The health and safety of our My role as a ofsustainable business.
We people and those who come safety coach is into contact with our sites is recognise six fundamental toencourage our top priority.
Our behavioural safety everyone to take responsibilities, which aim to programme Challenging responsibility for Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour ensure we are economically safer working reinforces that message and helps to shape a culture of practices.
sustainable, whilst embracing care, maintaining that ourduty to society and the Costa Chikamba nothing we do is so Assistant site manager, Galliford important that we cannot Try Partnerships environment.
take the time to do it safely.
Environment and climate change P35 Carbon footprint tonnes per 100,000 revenue target of 2.83 2.25 We aim to protect the environment and plan for its improvement We recognise that our As a carbon projects have an impact on champion, I can the environment and we make a difference remain committed to providing sustainable by making us solutions.
We therefore more efficient and place increasing importance by reducing our on cutting carbon emissions, managing waste and impacts.
improving the environment Stephen Mundy through careful selection Business development manager, and efficient use of both Galliford Try Building South West materials and fuel, in addition to embracing sustainable construction methods where possible.
32 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Our people P36 Customers P39 Training days delivered Linden Homes customer target of two days per employee satisfaction target of 90% 1 2.05 86.4% 1.
Equivalent to 9,044 training days in total.
We are committed to We give total commitment and developing our people by high standards to all our investing in their careers customers People are our competitive The continued success of We recognise The Linden Way advantage and a committed our business depends on thatthe key to will help us to and engaged workforce our ability to deliver products Galliford Trys improve our delivers better results.
We and services that our place great importance on customers value.
We take success lies in customers nurturing talent through our pride in the projects we thetalent and journeys from the training and development build, ensuring the highest of commitment of start, until they whilst attracting recruits to standards.
This is reflected help us achieve our goals.
in the long-term partnerships move in, and We promote diversity and we have nurtured in our beyond.
Jane Davies equality and protect the construction business and Human Resources director, rights of our employees.
our satisfaction scores in our Emma Jane Rice Galliford Try We build long-term loyalty housebuilding business.
National customer service director, Linden Homes through engagement.
Community P38 Supply chain P40 CCS Score target of 35 50 Timber FSC PEFC compliant target of 100% 37 91% Our objective is to make a positive We actively engage with our impact in the communities in supply chain, to promote our which we operate principles and practices Our supply chain is an We are an associate I work to create Galliford Try has integral part of our business.
member of the Considerate and maintain demonstrated a Strong, stable trading Constructors Scheme and excellent commitment to relationships are crucial to have pledged to project a our vision of constructing a positive image of our relationships on building strong sustainable future.
We achieve this by projects for the and sustainable engaging with communities, promote our principles and wider community, supply chain listening to their needs and practices to our supply chain applying our knowledge to and build on our existing our clients and partnerships.
ensure we deliver homes, relationships through Galliford Try.
schools, health facilities and engagement and the Supply Ian Heptonstall Director, Supply Chain infrastructure networks that Chain Sustainability School.
Tracey Waygood Sustainability School will meet the needs of those Public liaison officer, Galliford Try Infrastructure they serve.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 33 Sustainability continued Encouraging safer working 02 Health and safety Our new Group health and safety development manager has 01 03 introducedenhanced training, so more frontline employees know 06 04 how to encourage safer working practices.
This reinforces and 05 develops our safe working practices and our culture of care.
Measuring safety We extended the number of trained safety coaches in both our business and subcontractor network.
We now have 742, up by 212 Galliford Try measures its Accident Frequency Rate AFR in two on last year.
Safety coaches play a vital site-level role in our ways: firstly, by using the more recent RIDDOR definition of mainhealth and safety programme, Challenging Beliefs, Affecting accidents as incidents resulting in more than seven days absence: Behaviour, by encouraging their colleagues to recognise an and, secondly, against the former industry standard of three days activitys risks and find safe ways to do it.
absence, which has been our internal benchmark for many years.
Our internal measure identifies more accidents that could have Coaches tend to be foremen, assistant site managers and regular caused serious harm, moving us to a culture where no accidents subcontractors.
They need to be persuasive, enthusiastic about are acceptable and everyone has the right to go home safely.
safety and strong enough to address contentious issues.
Coaches have an important role in influencing how our site teams operate, Our internal target AFR, capturing accidents leading to more than by constantly reinforcing the message about safer ways of three days absence, was 0.13.
This year our internal AFR rose for working, and by embedding a culture where everyone manages the first time in over five years, increasing to 0.14 from 0.13.
This is their own, and their colleagues safety.
One way of achieving this still significantly below the all industry average published by the istheir delivery of Safe Behaviour Discussions.
Our health and safety team continues to tackle the root causes of all accidents, to influence the behavioural elements of We achieved our target of 60,000 Safe Behaviour Discussions, safe working practices.
which identify good and bad on-site practice through open discussion with operational personnel.
This is a change from the To 30 June 2014, we received no prosecutions, prohibitions or enforcement approach to managing safety, and leads to a more enforcements from the HSE, thereby achieving our target.
positive and sustained approach to health and safety at all levels.
Gauging employee awareness Accident Frequency Rate We gauge awareness of health and safety across our workforce, including office-based employees.
Following extended awareness training, 86% of employees understand our Challenging Beliefs, 0.17 0.13 0.13 0.14 Affecting Behaviour programme and their role in it 2013: 82%.
0.14 We also held a significant number of safety shutdowns across our Against our internal, more stringent fide nition operations, to take time out to reflect on both good and bad of accidents resulting in more than three days safety practices and ensure the highest standards are maintained absence.
An AFR of 0.10 was achieved on the across our sites.
Although the percentage of employees who HSE fide nition of a RIDDOR accident.
T A T A believe we give health and safety a high priority dropped slightly, T: Target A: Actual 2013 2013 2014 2014 from the target of 95% to 93%, the awareness figure remains high and we continue to prioritise improving employee awareness.
Accident Incidence Rate Providing leadership for health and safety Everyone employed by us or working on our behalf is responsible 3.93 2.33 3.73 3.50 for health and safety.
However, leadership drives home the need for vigilance.
Our executive team therefore committed to carry out 3.50 80 site safety visits during the year and achieved 67.
Our business Performance re ects number of accidents unit managing directors and leaders exceeded their target of 500 across the Group per 1,000 employees.
T A T A T: Target A: Actual 2013 2013 2014 2014 A T 34 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Carbon dioxide emissions in Scope 1 and 2 02 Environment and Site and Site and 01 03 office office Total 1 2 3 Year Fleet energy electricity emissions Intensity climatechange 06 04 05 Climate change presents risks and opportunities for our business.
For example, extreme weather can disrupt building programmes and we can expect increasing requirements to make 2013 7,456 24,935 6,257 38,648 2.25 developments resilient to climate change and to mitigate its 2012 10,074 22,566 8,143 40,783 2.83 impact.
This may make delivering our projects on time and to target costs more challenging.
Conversely, we may also see more 2011 9,039 30,150 7,773 46,962 3.41 flood defence structures being required, which could create more 2010 10,036 22,904 11,656 44,596 3.63 opportunities for our infrastructure business due to its significant delivery expertise.
In our housebuilding business, resource efficiency and cost are 2.
drivers for continued improvement in building techniques.
Metric tonnes of carbon dioxide per 100,000 of revenue.
deliver energy and water efficient homes and during 2014, more Our improved score in the Carbon Disclosure Project rising than 50% of all the homes we built complied with Level 3 of the from 68% to 73% and our inclusion in the FTSE Low Carbon Code for Sustainable Homes or equivalent, thereby exceeding our Economy Index evidence our improved performance.
Ourfabric first approach is the most cost-effective and easily replicated way to deliver energy efficient homes.
Complicated operating systems can help reduce energy use but we feel that attention to specification and robust building details are better.
Cutting energy and carbon Managing waste We have divisional carbon reduction plans, which respond to the We continue to focus on reusing or recycling waste on-site and needs of each divisions sectors and clients.
These are supported using transfer stations with high recycling rates.
We have improved by our Group Carbon Task Force, comprising the chief executive, performance in recent years and in 2013, we diverted 94% of carbon champions with specialist divisional knowledge, and the waste from landfill and reused or recycled 1.17 million tonnes Group sustainability manager.
Its role is to challenge performance on-site.
and set aspirational goals across all divisions.
Reducing waste to landfill drives business efficiency and cuts costs.
Through this task force we have again reduced our emissions, to2.25 tonnes of carbon dioxide per 100,000 of revenue.
Waste diverted from landll excluding soil and stone These emissions are those defined in Scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, covering direct use of fuels, fugitive 90.0% 92.3% 90.0% 94.0% emissions for example, from air-conditioning units, and emissions 94% associated with consumed electricity.
We have included emissions from our offices and all operational sites, including joint ventures.
All data provided for calendar years.
For joint ventures where we have operational control, we report all emissions.
Where we do not have operational control, we apportion T A T A emissions using our equity share.
All emissions defined here are 2012 2012 2013 2013 T: Target A: Actual assessed and measured in line with the DEFRA guidance.
We have started to record and report Scope 3 emissions, which arethose outside our direct control, such as those arising from waste, material deliveries, subcontract movements to site, hotel stays and water consumption.
Scope 3 emissions are far more A T significant than Scope 1 and 2, estimated to be around 135,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide, and will be an area of continued focus as we look to deliver the commitment of the Governments infrastructure plans.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 35 Sustainability continued Our other environmental impacts 02 Our people We have committed to recording, reporting and increasing the 01 03 proportion of timber we use from certified sources.
We gather this 06 04 information on a quarterly basis and report it to our divisional and 05 executive boards.
We also report this information to the UK Contractors Group UKCG along with other environmental data on Creating the right culture for growth waste, carbon and water, and are one of the leading UKCG members in doing so.
Galliford Try aims to grow significantly during the period to 2018.
Having the right people is key to this, so we continue to focus on During the year we continued to develop our approach to issues developing our existing staff and sourcing additional talent in such as water conservation, which has processes and key themarketplace.
performance indicators embedded in our ISO 14001 compliant management system that are reported to our management boards.
Developing employees skills to support our growth relies on a robust review process for performance and skills, and encouraging the Our projects must create environment plans, which recognise and next generation of employees by offering high quality training and set strategies for dealing with fauna and flora.
Our target is for trainees to make up at least 2% of our UKCG, we have recommended a preferred industry process for workforce and we have achieved a proportion of 4.2% during the year.
engaging ecologists, requiring them to identify habitat enhancement opportunities.
We were also instrumental in We support our people through The Galliford Try Academy, which launching the CIRIA BIG Challenge Do one thing, encouraging enables all our employees to access management programmes, contractors to find opportunities for projects to leave a positive structured on-the-job training and a wide range of learning resources.
Our aim is to offer an average of two days training per employee.
During the year, we achieved 9,044 days training, which is equivalent to 2.05 days per employee.
Equivalent to 2.05 days per employee.
T A T A T: Target waste per 100,000 revenue A: Actual waste per 100,000 revenue 2012 2012 2013 2013 T A T A 2013 2013 2014 2014 T: Target A: Actual With the economy showing signs of recovery and our success as a business, our employees are becoming increasingly desirable.
As a result, we are seeing an increased churn rate, from 11.45% A T last year to 15.69% this year.
We have reviewed the reasons why A T people leave and consider 15% to be the maximum acceptable churn rate for our business, reflecting our need to retain talent while bringing in new people and new ideas.
Measuring success Our employee engagement survey had a response rate of nearly 70%, including site-based staff, giving us a comprehensive picture of our peoples views on working for the Group.
We continue to score above the benchmark in most areas.
78% of staff are proud to work for the Group and 68% were satisfied or very satisfied with their job, up by 1% from last year.
During the year, we launched a new employee engagement initiative to help our employees understand the actions we will take in response to the survey.
You said, We will is a process through 36 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials which our HR team, business unit leaders and managing directors For our Group, the most significant areas of focus are: presented the results and asked teams how we should respond.
This included a Group-wide e-book, in which our divisional leaders respecting the diversity of our staff, and in particular ensuring responded to the survey results and committed to take action.
their health and safety, and working conditions: contributing to the well-being and sustainability of the Promoting diversity and equality communities in which we operate: selecting suppliers who evidence prioritising the rights and The Group is committed to employment policies, which follow welfare of their staff, and monitoring their performance bestpractice, based on equal opportunities for all employees, against internal guidelines: irrespective of sex, race, age, colour, disability or marital status.
maintaining robust policies and procedures for dealing with We value everyone as an individual, recognising that everyone is bribery and corruption, supported by mandated training and different and has different needs at work.
We respect peoples awareness: and differences and treat everyone with dignity and respect.
We create allowing our employees the right to freedom of association a culture in which everyone feels valued as an individual and is and providing avenues for employee representation.
motivated to give their best in their jobs.
As a responsible business, we predominantly deal with reputable People from minority backgrounds are underrepresented in UK-based companies and consider that sourcing goods from construction, and this imbalance is greater at more senior levels them minimises the risk of negative social impact.
We capture data for five of the nine protected source materials orproject expertise from businesses based characteristics and performance against these metrics is regularly overseas, we undertake reasonable assessments to ensure that reviewed at divisional and Executive Board level.
Our aim is to appropriate welfare standards are maintained.
achieve a workforce that is more representative of society, while employing the right candidate for each position.
The challenge for us and many of our peers lies in promoting the opportunities to, and encouraging, a wider range of candidates.
Gender Diversity Gender Diversity 1 1 Entire company Entire company Senior grades Senior grades 2 2 Female Male BME White Female Male BME White 23% 77% 4% 96% 8% 92% 2% 98% 1.
Senior management grades are defined as levels 1-3 on our scale which encompasses directors, heads of discipline and business leaders.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications foremployment from disabled persons, having regard to their particularaptitudes and abilities.
We carry out regular workplace assessments, and provide occupational health checks and adviceto support both employees and line managers.
Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued training and employment, career development and promotion of disabled persons.
If Apprenticeships members of staff become disabled, the Group endeavours to continue employment, either in the same or alternative position, A skills shortage and decline in new entrants feature withappropriate retraining being given if necessary.
Through the Linden Homes Apprentice Programme, we have encouraged We continue to support the UKCGs Equality Working Group and its Respect initiative, whichchallenges preconceptions about 139 new entrants into the industry over the last working in the industry through a targeted communication and threeyears.
Our chief executive, Greg Fitzgerald, began his Protecting human rights career as an apprentice.
To outline the benefits We are committed to protecting the human rights of our ofproviding apprenticeships, he was a key speaker employees and of people engaged with our business.
There have at the Apprenticeship, Skills and Employment been no related issues during the financial year.
eventin Exeter, held as part of the National Apprenticeship Week.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 37 Sustainability continued Encouraging volunteering 02 Community We recognise that employees support good causes connected with 01 03 their employment and that they volunteer in their communities.
We 06 04 also know that encouraging and enabling employees to volunteer 05 can increase loyalty and job satisfaction, and help employees to develop new skills and benefit others.
We launched our volunteering We view community as a defined group of people and policy at the start of the year, which allows employees to take up to organisations with a specific connection to, or interest in, a two days of paid special leave per year.
By the end of the financial particular geographical location.
We expect, as a general rule, year, 25 volunteering days had been requested.
that any community will have a shared interest in improving or maintaining quality of life and the local environment.
As a major Our national approach to community engagement is through our housebuilding and construction company with hundreds of active support for CRASH, the homelessness charity established by the sites, we both create and participate in communities every day.
As a patron, we offer financial support to Our responsibility is to help communities realise their ambitions enable CRASH to run its operations.
However, CRASHs real value through the homes, housing developments and the wider built is in discovering the needs of the many smaller homelessness environment we deliver.
Our construction projects are driven and organisations it works with, then enabling its supporting shaped by the needs of communities, reflected by the public organisations to deliver the professional services needed.
This sector contracts we win and deliver, and through our work for allows the smaller organisations to deliver projects that would private clients.
otherwise have significant financial costs.
During the year, we supported three projects by providing surveying, estimating and 1 technical skills.
Considerate Constructors Scheme score At a local level, individual project teams donate to good causes in support of employees or local interests, and gift time and resources.
35 37 35 37 Giving money is beneficial but it is often more valuable to provide 37 the resources and skilled time needed to deliver projects.
At the end of 2012, the CCS scoring system targeted delivering 4,000 hours of time to good causes during the was changed to the current 50 point scale.
year and delivered 6,047 hours, equivalent to around 136,050 of 2013 data is based on the six months to June 2013. support in kind.
Coupled with charitable and materials donations, T A T A our total community support amounted to 347,680.
2013 2013 2014 2014 T: Target A: Actual 1 Contribution from financial donations Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS The CCS is an independent organisation devoted to promoting best practice on construction projects, from how we manage and A T operate sites and treat our employees and supply chain partners, 347,680 through to our engagement with local communities.
We are an associate member and register all our sites of more than six Value of time 136,050 weeks duration with the scheme.
Value of materials resources donated 65,640 Donations and sponsorships Registered sites receive independent monitoring visits that assess 145,990 performance.
Sites that achieve a score of 7 10 in each of five sections achieve best practice.
Our Group target is therefore to 1.
Based on direct contributions, achieve or exceed 35 50.
This year we achieved an average score time and materials donated.
of 37 on 178 registered sites, which received a total of 349 compliance visits.
19 of our sites won CCS awards for Open Doors performance beyond compliance during the year.
Last year, 16 of our sites welcomed schoolchildren and students, to provide an experienceof what happens on major construction sites and outline the career opportunities on offer.
Many UKCG members support this initiative, which showcases careers in construction and the fantastic work completed on our sites.
Open Doors aligns with our ambition to make a positive impact in communities and we will support the next event in 2015.
38 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Housebuilding customer satisfaction score 2013: 93% 02 Customers 01 03 06 04 05 86.4% Target of 90%.
Linden Homes Construction client satisfaction score 2013: 83% Linden Homes has continued to follow The Linden Way, its approach to providing an excellent customer experience.
This initiative embraces the Groups values of excellence, passion, integrity and collaboration and aims to capture and share best 83% Target of 80%.
practice across our regional businesses.
This should ensure thatwherever someone is buying one of our homes, they receive During the year, Linden Homes changed the methodology used to the highest standard of customer service.
calculate a net promoter score, and reset the target to 23.5%, in line with the industry average.
We achieved 15.5% using the new This enhanced customer experience is aimed at increasing methodology, which brings our customer satisfaction and net customer satisfaction, reducing defects, enabling Linden Homes promoter scores together under the NHBC monitoring regime.
to progress from its current four star status to become a Five Star This allows us to directly compare our performance to that of Home Builder under the Home Builders Federation Star Rating ourpeers.
We will continue to review how we can improve Scheme, and increasing revenue whilst minimising cost.
During the year, we revised our approach to measuring customer Our defects per plot measure fell significantly, from 0.46 to 0.29 satisfaction.
We were using an independent company and our this year.
A continued focus on the final stages of building and customers were also being approached by NHBC for its survey.
handing over homes will see us move closer to our target of 0.25.
This led to survey overload and customer fatigue.
We have now adopted the NHBC system.
We retained our target from the Construction previous satisfaction survey of 90% and returned a rate of 86.4% from NHBC.
This shows that we still have work to do to improve To win new clients, it is crucial that we understand their needs and the customer experience and achieve our Five Star status.
that they understand what we can deliver for them.
We do this by continuing to develop our long-term sustainability plans.
Our infrastructure business was the first to complete its review and set out its strategic aims to 2025.
Our other businesses are also reviewing their plans and have adopted an initial set of requirements as part of our ISO 9001 compliant Business Management System.
A number of key indicators help us to understand how our construction division is performing.
We gauge customer satisfaction against our target of 80% and achieved 83% during the year.
This is a very consistent performance over the last few years and we will continue to target a minimum of 80% across thedivision.
We also measured our net promoter score for the first time, The Linden Way whichwas 34%.
This is based on dividing customers into three categories: promoters, passives, and detractors.
The customer must be at the forefront of every decision we make, from land acquisition to planning, Finally, we assess repeat business, which we treat as having completed another project for a client we have worked for in the from design to construction, and sales to aftercare.
During the year, this percentage was 53%.
This TheLinden Way embraces this idea and aims to includes Partnerships, which was part of the construction division revolutionise the customer experience, by improving at the start of the year.
Next year, given the transfer of Partnerships our culture and working practices.
to our housebuilding division, this data will be recast.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 39 Sustainability continued 02 Supply chain 01 03 06 04 05 Delivering projects to achieve our customers requirements and our aspirations relies on us having the best possible partners.
Achieving targets for improving the performance of our business on many social, environmental and economic performance indicators is only possible if we work with organisations that share our commitment.
We work with hundreds of suppliers and contractors, with around 12,000 people on our sites every day, and an even greater number Supply Chain Business Briefing are involved in manufacturing and supplying the materials we need.
We already have robust procedures to selectsupply chain Our Supply Chain Business Briefing was hosted by partners, to minimise the risks to our projects.
We manage our chief executive, Greg Fitzgerald, and outlined our subcontractors locally through regional procurement teams but plans for Galliford Try over the next four years.
This take a different approach with major suppliers of materials and allowed us to consult our partners on initiatives have established relationships with around 50 preferred suppliers.
This enables us to set standards for materials and equipment which will improve how we engage with our Group supplied to us.
We also encourage subcontractors to purchase supply chain partners, including prompt payment materials from our preferred suppliers.
Sustainable Timber The Supply Chain Sustainability School Our projects encounter a range of social and environmental Galliford Try is committed to sourcing all of its issues.
Whilst our larger supply chain partners already have timberfrom legal and sustainable sources, with commitments in these areas and support their employees in anappropriate standard in place to evidence this.
delivering them, many smaller partners cannot access the resources they need to become more sustainable businesses and, 91% of timber products received from our preferred in making that transition, help us to be more sustainable too.
suppliers complied with either Forest Stewardship Council FSC or the Programme for the Given the number of businesses we work with, delivering Endorsement of Forests Certification PEFC.
awareness training and helping to develop our partners skills Overall99.4% was verified as coming from legal isnot straightforward.
Our approach is a new Supply Chain Sustainability School, which we financially support along with andsustainable sources.
Our commitment allows the School to offer free support to companies that join and gives them access to: Timber supplied with certication a detailed benchmarking service across ten themes of sustainable business: strength and weakness analysis: and 91% the resources and learning opportunities to improve performance.
Certi ed 91% Other legal and sustainable The School helps us and our partners to improve performance and sources 8.4% Other sources 0.6% provides more general support across the industry.
It is a real example of the strength that comes from major construction companies working together.
Over 700 companies we work with are already signed up and have taken the opportunity to assess and understand their scores.
It is encouraging that our partners score above the industry average.
We are targeting our preferred group suppliers for even better performance during this calendar year.
40 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Our sustainability activities Key performance indicators 2014 Target Achieved Comment 1.
Health and safety Accident Frequency Rate 0.13 0.14 An AFRof 0.10 was achieved on the HSE RIDDOR definition of accidents which matches that achieved last year.
An AFR of 0.14 on our internal, more stringent definition was achieved this year.
This is against a target of 0.13, the rate achieved last year.
This is the first increase in our accident statistics in five years.
Accident Incidence Rate 3.73 3.50 We exceeded our target.
Reportable accidents N A 51 Against our internal stringent standard of 3 days absence.
Executive led safety assessments 80 67 This includes our extended executive team, with responsibility for leading the business.
Safe behaviour discussions 60,000 75,463 We aim to maintain a year-on-year increase.
Safety coaches trained 600 742 The coaching programme will continue to deliver training, to keep improving our level of performance on health and safety.
Employee survey health and safety question: 95% 93% This was a slight decrease from last year but remains the highest My business gives health and safety a high priority.
Employee survey health and safety question: 85% 86% An improvement which is due, in part, to extended training on our I understand the Groups initiative Challenging Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour programme.
Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour and my part in it.
Environment and climate change Waste diverted from landfill excluding soil and stones 90% 94% Results are for the 2013 calendar year.
We will maintain these targets for the coming year.
Total waste tonnes excluding soil and stones per 20 12.2 We exceeded our target.
100,000 revenue Carbon footprint tonnes per 100,000 revenue 2.83 2.25 A further reduction achieved and data has been verified for the 2013 calendar year.
Number attending environmental training IOSH N A 109 This has increased from 56 last year, partly due to increased funding being made available.
Our people Employees attending chief executives roadshow 40% 43% 1,873 employees attended the roadshow.
We aim to improve attendance but we recognise that our operational sites need to maintain a certain staffing level to ensure they function safely.
Training days per employees 2 2.05 The investment to deliver this training, including employees time, is2.13m.
We exceeded our target and delivered a total of 9.044 trainingdays.
Trainees graduates as % of workforce 2 4.2% 184 of our employees were trainees or graduates in the year.
This compares with 3.7% last year.
Churn rate A maximum of 15.7% Managing churn is a challenge in a recovering construction market.
Community Number of subcontractor apprentices recruited 500 by 2016 139 From the Linden Homes scheme.
A new partner has been appointed to accelerate the recruitment and placing of apprentices to achieve our target.
Charitabledonations N A 347,680 This is from direct donations, and donations in kind of time and materials.
Considerate Constructors Scheme score 35 50 37 We exceeded our target.
Customers Linden Homes defects per plot 0.25 0.29 Our defects per plot measure fell significantly from 0.46 to 0.29.
A continued focus on the final stages of building and handing over homes via The Linden Way will see us move closer to our target of 0.25.
Linden Homes customer satisfaction 90% 86.4% Target 90% of our customers would recommend us to a friend as assessed by an independent survey.
Linden Homes net promoter score 23.5% 15.5% During the year, we changed the methodology used to calculate a net promoter score, and reset the target to 23.5%, in line with the industry average.
See page 39 for more information.
Construction client satisfaction 80% 83% We have maintained a stable figure of 83% and begun to measure net promoter score.
Construction forward order book N A 1.4 billion Increased to 3.0 billion following the acquisition of Miller Construction in July 2014.
Construction repeat work N A 53% With Partnerships now part of our housebuilding division this will be reviewed.
Supply chain Timber supplied with FSC PEFC 100% 91% Results are for the 2013 calendar year.
Engagement process to identify best performing Begin process in Yes Galliford Try is a partner in the Supply Chain Sustainability School and preferred Group suppliers 2013 is using its resources to encourage its supply chain partners to improve their awareness and understanding of sustainable procurement.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 41
