STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability report Our Values at the heart of a sustainable business CLEAR VALUES By our people As a business In our world Doing the right thing Message from the Chief Executive At GKN, being a sustainable business means operating in an ethical, efficient and safe manner.
The GKN Code, its related policies and our Values are all in place to make sure we do so.
They describe how the Group and employees should conduct business in order to build a long term, sustainable future for GKN.
This section explains essential business processes from continuous improvement and how we work with suppliers, to ensuring we have the right people by recruiting talent, developing them and making sure they remain safe in our sites.
We also focus on our impact in our world and GKNs positive role in the communities in which we operate.
Our Values are at the heart of our business.
They explain what GKN stands for and guide our day-to-day activities.
By living these Values all GKN employees are contributing to the long term success of the Group.
Our Values can be summed up in one simple phrase: doing the right thing.
6 Twelve promises, six from GKN to our PROMISES employees and six from employees to GKN, help our employees live these Values every day.
52 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information PROMISES FROM GKN TO EMPLOYEES PROMISES FROM EMPLOYEES TO GKN We will support you through investment I share GKNs commitment to build a high and training so we can build a high performing business with a strong customer performance business by delivering superb focus.
I show that commitment through customer service.
We will help you develop your full potential I always respect the rights of other and we will not tolerate any discrimination.
Doing the right thing We will care for you by providing a safe I do not put other team members at risk working environment.
of injury and will counsel anyone I see working unsafely.
We will do what we can to minimise our impact on the environment.
I believe in honest and proper conduct at all times.
We are all part of a wider society and we will contribute positively to the communities of I know I am free to report behaviour which is which we are part.
If you have a problem we will listen I will help protect the environment and in confidence.
GKN believes in doing the right thing by our people, as a business and in our world.
OUR PEOPLE pages 54-56 OUR BUSINESS page 57 OUR WORLD pages 58-59 We employ 51,400 people in more than GKN is a global technology leader in three We strive to have a positive impact on our 30 countries across five continents.
We core markets: aerospace, automotive and world from the sites we work in, to the have strong relationships with customers, land systems.
Every day we deliver high communities in which we operate and the suppliers and contractors around the world.
quality products and services that touch planet on which we live.
Our people are the key to those relationships peoples lives and help move the world, As a global engineering business we aim to and are central to our success.
helping us to achieve our strategic reduce the impact that both our operations objective of differentiating ourselves At GKN, doing the right thing by our and our customers have on the environment.
people means promoting a safe working Every product that we engineer is designed environment, developing our employees, We believe in building a high performance to perform better than its predecessor, encouraging a diverse workforce and business and are committed to delivering be it lighter, more efficient or resulting in building an environment where people safe, high quality products and services.
feel comfortable speaking up if they see We also believe in creating a culture of We also aim to support the communities behaviour which is wrong.
continuous improvement across GKN, in which we operate.
GKN is proud of the applying the Lean Enterprise model to positive role that our sites and employees This approach helps GKN develop an everything that we do.
This helps us towards play in society every day, whether this is outstanding team.
It means we are more the Groups strategic objective of driving through job creation and promoting good able to recruit the very best talent and create operational excellence.
business practice, or supporting local charity a workforce of engaged colleagues around and community organisations.
our strategic objective of leveraging a strong global presence.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability report Our people Doing the right thing by our people We have continued to integrate Total Plant Risk Management TPRM GKN Code techniques into key operations following their introduction in 2013.
During 2014 we revised the GKN Code to make it clearer and simpler, TPRM is focused on raising our hazard awareness competence within and to provide additional guidance on key areas of risk.
The new GKN manufacturing sites and uses screening tools to identify risks and Code will be rolled out to all employees during 2015, reinforcing our take corrective actions.
Values and reminding employees about the standards of behaviour we expect.
We require all our manufacturing plants to achieve certification to the health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 or equivalent, and all The rollout programme started in February 2015 with briefings at sites have obtained or are working towards certification.
each of our divisional leadership conferences: it will be followed by an ongoing cascade to all employees through manager-led We measure our health and safety performance through two metrics: face-to-face awareness sessions.
accident frequency rate AFR is used to track the number of lost time accidents and accident severity rate ASR records the number of days Health and safety lost due to accidents and occupational ill health.
In 2014 there was At GKN we have a goal of zero preventable accidents.
To support continued improvement in the AFR, reducing from 1.6 in 2013 to 1.3: this we have a number of GKN-developed and globally applied however, the ASR saw a minor increase from 40 to 46, primarily due to behavioural safety programmes.
These highlight potential safety specific occupational health issues in North America associated with issues, share best practice and help to minimise hazards at our the long term absences of three employees.
Actions to address this sites.
Led by our Group-wide communications and awareness have been implemented in 2014 and will continue into 2015. programme, thinkSAFE!, this consistent approach helps us work towards our strategic objective of driving operational excellence.
During 2014 we increased our focus on near-miss incident reporting and associated improvement actions.
There was an overall reporting thinkSAFE!
continued throughout 2014 increase of 74% over 2013.
This focus will continue into 2015 and we introduced thinkHEALTH!
with the aim of using this leading indicator as a means of taking These programmes encourage employees to resolve safety and preventive actions.
In February 2014 an employee at GKN Aerospace Engine Systems' El The Group extended its management and control of potentially Cajon plant in the US suffered a fatal injury whilst operating a forklift catastrophic risk by introducing the use of the 'Bowtie model'.
We deeply regret this loss of life and have provided support The Group identified a number of improvement opportunities to to the employees family.
A full investigation was carried out and reduce the overall health, safety and environment HSE risk profile, lessons learned have been communicated across the Group.
This has completing the majority of actions in 2014.
The Bowtie process will included a forklift truck safety improvement programme.
be further developed and improved during 2015.
During 2014, 69 health, safety and environmental audits were carried Accident frequency rate Accident severity rate out through our internal HSE audit function, HSE peer audits and Number of lost time accidents per Number of days shifts lost due to using external audit expertise.
These audits assess performance 1,000 employees accident and occupational ill against broad-based and wide-ranging criteria.
Audit findings are health per 1,000 employees analysed and corrective actions are taken.
We also share best practice examples across the Group.
During 2014, there were 14 incidents in respect of which a safety enforcement action was issued: 13 in the US with a penalty totalling $16,710 and one in the UK without a penalty.
2010 figures include subsidiary employees only.
2011-2014 figures also include agency workers.
A safety briefing for employees at GKN Driveline in Birmingham, UK 54 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2010 2.7 2011 2.3 2012 2.1 2013 1.6 2014 1.3 2010 68 2011 59 2012 51 2013 40 2014 46 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Leadership assurance Developing our people Our leadership team plays an essential role by setting an example GKN is committed to supporting all its employees through and personally demonstrating how we value the importance of investment and development.
Training and career development doing the right thing.
All GKN leaders are required, on an annual remain a focus for the business.
Employee progress is charted basis, to confirm that that they understand the behaviours expected through managerial and technical career paths, supported by of them as leaders in promoting the right behaviours within GKN.
In focused assessment and training.
2015 they will also be asked to confirm that they have received, read and understood the new GKN Code and have held a cascade briefing Our online training support tool, GKN Academy, enables employees with their team.
to access development options from their workplace or from home.
There is now a library of 4,400 courses available in up to 20 languages, in support of our growing global workforce.
In 2014, Speaking up employees completed more than 21,600 courses a 45% increase GKN is committed to a culture in which people feel comfortable on the previous year and the GKN Academy site experienced an speaking up when they see behaviour which is inconsistent with average of 8,500 hits per month.
We continue to promote the importance of our confidential Employee Disclosure Hotline, which is available to all employees and enables them to raise concerns on an anonymous basis.
It is hosted by an external, independent company and is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Matters reported are Formula Student investigated and feedback is always provided to the caller.
Over the past three years we have experienced a rise in the number of calls Inspiring the next generation of engineers to the hotline to 133 calls in 2014 0.3% of employees.
We attribute this to increased promotion raising awareness of the service and a growing workforce.
Number of calls to Employee Disclosure Hotline Graduates and apprentices In 2014, GKN divisions recruited over 150 graduates worldwide.
These are sought-after posts attracting high quality candidates.
As we seek to increase the number of talented individuals we recruit with the skills and talent to become our leaders of the future, a Group-wide graduate programme will be re-introduced during 2015.
This will focus on recruiting high calibre individuals onto a fast-track management programme, consisting of cross divisional Visit us at www.
com careers to find out more and diverse assignments.
GKN is helping to inspire the next generation of engineers GKN is also expanding its recruitment of apprentices and has through global support for international student motorsport nearly 900 globally, an increase of around 20% during 2014. competitions, such as Formula Student, in which students An apprenticeship with GKN combines learning practical skills compete to design, build and race their own vehicles.
Over 100 with classroom studies, preparing young people for a future career universities and more than 4,000 students were involved in these at the heart of engineering.
During 2014, GKN invested approximately 23,000 supporting teams and contests in the UK, China and Spain, as well as providing materials, components and expertise to contestants across the world.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 2010 76 2011 52 2012 88 2013 116 2014 133 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability report Our people The Group has an organisation-wide succession planning and Diversity and inclusion development programme to ensure our people develop the As a global organisation with operations in more than 30 countries, capabilities required to deliver the business plan.
In 2014 the Group we value the individuality that each employee brings to our internal recruitment rate for management roles was 70%.
Our objective is to have a positive and inclusive working turnover of management employees, which excludes compulsory environment free from any kind of discrimination and in which redundancies, terminations and retirements, was 4.7% 2013: 6.1%, employees are motivated to maximise their contribution.
bringing us into our target range of less than 5%.
GKNs policies require all Group companies to treat employees fairly and with respect, recognising their abilities, differences and achievements.
Employees by business Our aim is to ensure that the workforce is representative of the GKN Aerospace 12,350 countries and markets in which we operate and the communities in GKN Driveline 25,650 which we are located, including an appropriate gender mix.
Women GKN Powder Metallurgy 6,900 make up 13.2% of total subsidiary employees see table below and GKN Land Systems 5,200 6.8% of the senior executive population.
Other Businesses 1,300 As at 31 December 2014 Male Female a GKN plc Board 7 1 Including subsidiaries and joint ventures.
b Senior managers 373 33 c Total employees 39,235 5,990 a Excluding Marcus Bryson who retired from the Board on 31 December 2014. b Comprises senior executives and, as required by S414C of the Companies Act Employee engagement 2006, subsidiary company directors.
GKN is committed to creating and maintaining a working c Excluding joint ventures.
environment that stimulates both personal and organisational growth.
As an engineering group we face particular challenges in increasing our gender diversity, especially amongst the senior executive In the first half of 2014, the results of the 2013 biennial Global population.
In order to increase our talent pipeline of women and Employee Survey, reported last year, were delivered to every other under-represented groups, we have implemented a diversity business unit and every global function.
Since then site-level action and inclusion programme which will focus on the following actions plans have been created to address issues raised by the survey.
in 2015: Interactive diversity training for executives and senior Progress against these action plans are captured through Positive management.
Climate Index PCI sessions, held monthly in every GKN site.
Identification of high potential people from under-represented Hosted by business leaders, and facilitated by HR colleagues, groups and setting up mentoring relationships.
these sessions provide an opportunity for open and honest Recruitment and promotion training for relevant employees.
dialogue between employees and site leadership.
Colleagues Online diversity training throughout the organisation.
answer questions about their experiences of working for GKN and can suggest ideas for improvement.
HR teams and Site Steering Committees then work together to respond to the issues raised and drive cultural improvements.
PCI performance is now an essential measure of business performance and forms part of all monthly divisional operation reviews.
The Groups average PCI data has been consistent for the past three years.
A programme of support for leaders is being deployed in the form of an Engagement Workshop for management teams.
This will be rolled out and expanded in 2015.
56 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Sustainability report Our business Doing the right thing as a business GKN employees delivered over 80 weeks of training to more than Human rights 300 leaders during the past year.
A new course, Lean Leadership, A respect for human rights is the first tenet in our Ethics Policy.
It was developed and delivered to Executive leaders, providing is also implicit in our Values and the other policies which underpin alignment at all levels of the Group.
In our sites, leaders delivered them.
We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and do Lean Fundamentals training and led events to organise work cells, not tolerate the use of child or forced labour.
develop value streams, and improve business processes.
Suppliers This robust system of training, improvement workshops and Supply chains are carefully planned and monitored.
We align our coaching ensures that GKN grows its culture of continuous resources and capacities to our customers demands, ensuring improvement and contributes to a successful and sustainable timely delivery of high quality products with minimum disruption Lean Enterprise.
Our suppliers are integral to the sustainability of our business.
Compliance training Our online compliance training modules continue to be an important We are committed to treating all our suppliers and partners with fairness and integrity and aim to develop and maintain strong element of our overall compliance programmes.
Of our pre-defined target audience of employees, 98% have completed training on antisupplier relationships.
In return, we expect our suppliers to do the right thing.
Our supply chain management policy sets out the bribery and corruption and competition law, and since their launch, 12,500 and 3,400 employees respectively have completed these principles and procedures each GKN company should follow in dealing with suppliers and potential suppliers.
85% 14,191 employees of the pre-defined target audience have completed online IT security training.
All new starters meeting In December 2014 we introduced a new Supplier Code of Conduct our defined criteria are expected to complete these online courses aimed at making it easier and clearer for suppliers to understand which are supplemented by face-to-face training for individuals in what we expect of them.
This code sets out the requirements of roles more relevant to those areas.
suppliers in relation to health, safety and environmental standards, internationally accepted standards of workers rights, use of child and forced labour, ethical standards, bribery and corruption, and compliance with relevant laws and regulations.
Our contractual terms and conditions support the implementation of this code.
Continuous improvement GKNs Lean Enterprise model provides a framework for continuous improvement across the Group.
Employees from the office and factory floor up to the executive level are trained to identify value for customers and shareholders, and encouraged to eliminate waste or remove barriers.
As we strive towards operational excellence, employee teams work to improve workplace safety, meet customer targets for A continuous improvement meeting quality and delivery, and improve the flow of parts and information.
at GKN Driveline in Employees and leaders develop skills in coaching and problem Trier, Germany solving, building a culture of continuous improvement in our factories and offices alike.
The Voice of the Customer initiative in 2014 has reinforced mechanisms for reflecting customer views on GKNs performance into our management reviews.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability report Our world Doing the right thing in our world Energy consumption per unit of production kWh tonne Environment The Group is committed to continuous improvement in all areas of 3000 environmental performance and seeks to minimise our impact on the 2500 environment across our operations.
2000 1500 We apply GKN Lean Enterprise techniques to energy efficiency and waste reduction programmes, both in offices and at manufacturing 1000 locations.
Sites are required to develop energy efficiency targets and 500 plans, which are reviewed regularly, and best practice is rewarded 0 in the Environmental category of the annual GKN Excellence Awards.
Aerospace Driveline Powder Land Metallurgy Systems ISO 14001 is our mandated environmental management system and all manufacturing sites have either achieved this or are in the CO2 emissions per unit of production kg tonne process of obtaining certification.
1000 800 In 2014, in line with the thinkSAFE!
methodology, we introduced thinkGREEN!, an environmental awareness programme targeted 600 at all employees to encourage them to help reduce our impact on the environment.
400 200 A major project was launched in 2014 to introduce energy metering and monitoring at 10 pilot sites across GKN.
This programme will 0 Aerospace Driveline Powder Land be further expanded in 2015 to cover our major energy using sites.
Metallurgy Systems The project will allow our sites, divisions and Group to have near real Waste generation per unit of production kg tonne time energy data and take corrective actions as appropriate.
250 Group energy efficiency kWh per 000 sales Group energy e ciency kWh per 000 sales 200 150 100 50 0 Aerospace Driveline Powder Land Metallurgy Systems Recycled waste % of total waste 100 Environmental performance in 2014 was in line with expectations, 80 with most divisions achieving improved results, as illustrated in the charts.
Group energy efficiency decreased by 4% over 2013, 60 primarily due to currency fluctuations depressing statutory sales, 40 but improved by 16% since 2009, meeting our target of a 15% improvement over the five years.
Going forward, we have set a target 20 of improving Group energy efficiency by 3% year-on-year.
0 Aerospace Driveline Powder Land Metallurgy Systems 3 Water consumption per unit of production m tonne 5 4 3 2 1 0 Aerospace Driveline Powder Land Metallurgy Systems Aerospace measured against 1,000 sales.
2012 2013 2014 58 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2009 576 2010 587 2011 529 2012 484 2013 465 2014 484 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information GKN calculates greenhouse gas emissions using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
The greenhouse gas intensity of the Group i. e. Casa dos Sonhos operations included in the consolidated financial statements increased by 8% in 2014.
Expressed as tonnes of CO equivalent 2 House of Dreams, Gravata, Brazil per million sales, emissions intensity increased from 171 in 2013 to 186 in 2014.
This increase was caused primarily by currency fluctuations depressing Group sales and partly by improved greenhouse gas collection processes see note below.
The absolute emissions of the Group increased by 6% from 1,228,000 tonnes of CO equivalent in 2013 to 1,300,000 tonnes of CO 2 2 equivalent in 2014.
This includes: Scope 1 direct emissions of 280,000 tonnes and Scope 2 indirect emissions of 1,020,000 tonnes 2013: 245,000 tonnes and 983,000 tonnes respectively.
This increase was largely due to improved data collection and increased production in our more energy-intensive businesses.
We have set a target of improving Group greenhouse gas intensity by 3% year-on-year going forward.
Note: Scope 1 emissions in 2014 include CO equivalent emissions resulting from 2 transport, process and fugitive emissions, which were not included in 2013.
Process emissions from arc furnaces at two GKN Powder Metallurgy plants were included in both years.
During 2014 there were 15 environmental enforcement actions, all in the US.
Four resulted in financial penalties totalling $6,600.
Environmental enforcement actions from 2013 in Brazil were finalised and resulted in a penalty of R$3,035.
Communities The majority of GKN sites are active in their communities.
Sometimes the activity is management-led, but on many occasions it is the employees who instigate projects and initiatives.
We focus these activities on two main areas: enhancing local communities through social projects and charitable donations: and working with young people to inspire the next generation of engineers.
We aim to support young people in our communities and also to inspire them to study science and mathematics and consider a career in engineering.
Around the world, GKN led over 125 significant projects aimed at doing this: these projects touched the lives of more than 25,000 young people.
Hearts of Gold Visit us at www.
com to see more case studies Held annually, our internal Hearts of Gold awards allow us to recognise extraordinary GKN people who contribute to their communities.
Hearts of Gold winners receive a trophy and a The Casa dos Sonhos or House of Dreams began as the vision of certificate to recognise their achievement.
one GKN Porto Alegre employee, Maria Mercedes fide Paula, in 1985.
She wanted to help under-privileged children in her community and after almost 20 years of fundraising and meetings with businesses We are also working on improved ways of recording and celebrating and local authorities, her school was built in the nearby town of these remarkable stories.
One example is a new Hearts of Gold Gravata in 2003.
Today, 70 children from the ages of 6 to 16 attend microsite, which allows GKN employees to upload and share Casa dos Sonhos, learning reading, writing, sports and IT skills, community activities that they and their colleagues have taken part and GKN continues to donate Christmas gifts and equipment to in.
This site is due to be launched in the first quarter of 2015. the school.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
