Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY As one of the leading UK pub retailers and brewers, it is vital thatweoperate a sustainable and responsible business.
Weare committed to the maintenance and delivery ofan effective social responsibility programme.
OUR FOCUS This year, we continued to focus on our impact on four key stakeholder areas: ourcustomers, our communities, our people and our environment.
We continue tomake good progress in our corporate social responsibility CSR and details ofourCSR policies can be found in the social responsibility section of our website, www.
OUR CUSTOMERS OUR COMMUNITIES We extended the range of healthy food choices We have raised 903,086 for Macmillan Cancer on our menus Support in two years OUR CUSTOMERS OUR COMMUNITIES page 34 page 36 OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT We will recruit 2,000 apprentices this year We have invested 500,000 in converting thebrewery boilers to gas OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT page 37 page 38 www.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 33 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OUR CUSTOMERS Pubs have an important role to play for process, we will continue toreview customers, families and communities across anddevelop the range going forward.
2.9m the country and provide safe, affordable units of alcohol have been removed andconvenient hospitality.
Our focus for the future is to continue to expand our nutritional expertise along with fromcirculation in the UK Our commitment to delivering industrydeveloping our menus with lower calorie leading value, service and quality to our and healthier options for our customers.
customers is supported by our strong retail brands, our dedicated teams and our ongoing Five a Day Food standards investment in innovation, which combine We are committed to delivering and Several of our kids menus offer todeliver the best experience possible activelypromoting excellent food and fiveaday pick and mix options forour customers.
In our Retail business, we set to do this by training, external Healthy eating audits, open dialogue with local authorities This year we appointed a nutrition manager, and operational incentive schemes.
We also demonstrating our commitment to moving work with our tenants to support them in 173 nutrition to the top of our agenda.
The role achieving excellent food standards.
English managed pubs belong supports the development of healthier menu toarecognised PubWatch scheme options for our customers and manages our Quality standards for our beers continued commitment to the governments The Westgate Brewery in Bury St Edmunds Public Health Responsibility Deal food and the Belhaven Brewery in Dunbar both pledges, specifically to lower the levels of maintained an A grade rating with the British saltwithin our supply chain and to remove Retail Consortium.
These awards confirm artificial trans fats.
that our beer is produced to the highest quality and food safety standards.
We achieved solid results with salt reduction in key product lines, including our kids We launched a quality and dispense services sausage, where we saw a 24% reduction, department in our Brewing & Brands division, anda 22% decrease in our beef burger.
combining the functions of the Cellar Service Inconjunction with these results, we are and Trade Quality teams.
The aim of the currently in the process of reviewing the team will be to support pubs with training salt content of several of our top ten on how to care for and serve real ale to productlines.
We extended the range of healthy food Our commitment to quality was recognised choices across our menu brands.
This summer as ten of our beers received Monde Selection we introduced a range of five a day salads Quality Awards this year.
We were awarded topromote the intake of a variety of fruit eight gold and twosilvers for our beers, andvegetables, supporting government including the newly launched Yardbird and recommendations.
We also expanded the Double HopMonster, as well as our much range of fewer than 500 calories dishes and loved favourites Abbot Ale and will continue to develop this area of our menu.
Several of our kids menus were changed to offer a wider range of five a day pick and mix options.
In some of our Destination and Local Responsible retailing Pub sites, our kids menus allow children to Tackling under-age sales customise their order, and highlight healthy We created an online employee training options, which enable them to make healthier system to improve how we attempt to eating decisions.
reduce and prevent under-age sales of alcohol.
The training course must be The investment in our supplier management completed and passed before our staff system this year enabled us to have greater canserve alcohol.
visibility of the nutritional and allergen content of our products, allowing us to Our Retail premises continue to provide more detailed nutritional and operatethe challenge 21 or challenge 25 allergen reports across our retail estate.
programmes, which are regularly audited to ensure notices are displayed advising In response to the growing demand for customers that these programmes are non-gluten containing dishes, all of our menu inforce.
brands now offer a range of non-gluten options.
As part of our menu development 34 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
co. uk Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements We also support the principles laid out in Limit awareness Public Health Responsibility Deal thePortman Code of Practice on responsible Once again we supported the Governments We are currently signed up to eight retailing of alcohol.
All retail managers and anti-drink drive Christmas campaigns.
This pledgesin the governments Public Health our bar staff are trained upon recruitment year was the fifth consecutive year that we Responsibility Deal PHRD and progressed and ongoing to ensure they understand supported the Designated Driver Christmas with these during the last year.
The PHRD theirrole in promoting the responsible Campaign, in conjunction with Coca-Cola aims to tap into our potential to make a consumption of alcohol by our customers.
Enterprises Limited, throughout our retail significant contribution to improving public estate, where designated drivers were health by taking a joint approach to tackling Best Bar None and Pub Watch schemes offered free soft drinks at Christmas.
the challenges caused by lifestyle changes.
We are working with National Best Bar None By signing up to these pledges we are to re-launch the scheme to improve itsprofile commit to taking action voluntarily to Minimum unit pricing for alcohol and membership.
At a more local level, we improve public health.
For details of our Greene King has long advocated the need are working with the local authority to roll signed pledges and our progress visit the for a minimum unit price MUP for alcohol Department of Health PHRD website, out Best Bar None across the county ofSuffolk.
in the UK in order to tackle the misuse of www.
alcohol, which causes ill health and can lead In England, 173 of our managed pubs to anti-social behaviour within communities.
belongto recognised Pub Watch schemes We remain committed to the introduction and a further 64 have, or are currently, of minimum unit pricing.
signed up to Best Bar None award schemes within their area.
Additional schemes Unit reduction in our beers across the UK are currently on hold.
We are also committed to removing units ofalcohol from our brand portfolio to help Last year, 15 of our pubs were accredited our customers drink sensibly and within with Best Bar None status, some of which guidelines.
We reduced the alcohol by volume were awarded best in specific categories ABV in Old Speckled Hen bottles and cans oroverall winner.
from 5.2% to 5.0%, Belhaven Best in cans from 3.5% to 3.2%, and in Ruddles bottles The Best Bar None Scheme in Scotland and cans from 4.7% to 4.3%.
This removed sawalmost 100% of sites able to take part 2.9 million units of alcohol from circulation and resulted in these sites being fully in the UK.
accredited with numerous winners of categories and schemes.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 35 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OUR COMMUNITIES Pubs will always play a vital role in the After a busy and successful year for our Macmillan Cancer Support community.
They are a place where everyone charity partnership, we were delighted to Our first national charity partnership was comes together to relax and to discuss issues be shortlisted for the Employee Engagement launched in May 2012 and we committed to that affect their neighbourhood.
We recognise category of the Third Sector Business raise 1m over three years for Macmillan the value of that role within the social Charity Awards 2014.
This recognises our Cancer Support.
The continued hard work fabricof our society and how, for everyone, investment and commitment to launch our and dedication to fundraising by our employees maintaining the presence of a pub in a first charity partnership and the incredible and generosity and support of our customers community is essential.
We have developed success in engaging our employees across resulted in 903,086 raised in the first two a programme to support key organisations the business.
that address the inequalities in our society.
Our 1m target is now within sight and The fundraising efforts during our second weshould reach it well ahead of schedule, year included employees running marathons, Pub is the Hub although we will continue raising money throwing themselves from aeroplanes, This year we supported Pub is the Hub by through the remainder of the partnership.
swimming lakes, riding bikes and climbing providing 15,000 of central funding.
We also diversified our fundraising not-for-profit organisation, Pub is the Hub efforts in line with our commitment to our Focus 12 is dedicated to offering advice and support to charity partners by introducing donations Greene King continues to support the licensees, rural pubs and community services.
on selected desserts across all divisions, charity Focus 12, based close to our head raising 50,000: our contribution to Macmillans office and brewery in Bury St Edmunds, Our funding supported the Community Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning grew by 16% Services Fund.
This fund provided support Suffolk.
Focus 12 provides treatment for to 117,000: 50,000 wristbands have now for 33,000 local people in their village clients with drug and alcohol dependency, been sold, helping to raise awareness of communities through investment or as well as guidance and counselling for Macmillans flagship Not Alone campaign: planned investment, via the local pub, affected family members.
and 162 Greene King employees took on during the last 12 months.
A further thegruelling Yorkshire Three Peaks 24,000people are anticipated to receive The annual Greene King Charity Ball, fundraising challenge.
which historically raises more than 20,000 for Focus 12, enabling it to continue to support the local community and tackle theeffects of alcohol and drug abuse, willbeheld in the autumn of this year.
CASE STUDY Employees reach their peak by taking on their toughest challenge yet for Macmillan On a perfectly sunny spring day in Yorkshire, 162 Greene King employees from all parts of the business took on thegruelling Yorkshire Three Peaks fundraising challenge for Macmillan.
We had pub managers, bar staff, chefs at Loch Fyne Seafood & Grill restaurants, head office employees and brewery workers all pulling together to raise as much money as possible for Macmillan and get as many of the team through totheend of the challenge.
The target of50,000 was comfortably beaten and nearly everybody on the team made ittothe end before the sunset!
The Yorkshire Three Peaks are the three largest hills in Yorkshire.
We covered just over 25 miles walking up Pen-y-Ghent, Whernside andIngleborough.
36 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
co. uk Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements OUR PEOPLE Our people are our lifeblood and our greatest Gender diversity asset.
With 23,000 employees, it is important that we attract and retain the best people and Percentage Male Female Total female developing and nurturing talent is essential to our continued success and the future growth Directors 6 1 7 14% of our business.
Senior managers excluding directors 125 33 158 21% All employees 11,389 12,152 23,541 52% Employee engagement There are many benefits to having engaged employees both from a work and individual point of view.
We are pleased that we saw an Health and safety awards Diversity increase in our employee engagement of This year, our Brewing & Brands division won We operate an equal opportunities policy 2%pts to 77%.
This should imply an improved the Presidents Award for occupational health toensure that employees are recruited, quality of service we provide our customers and safety from the Royal Society for the developed, remunerated and promoted on the and a happier workplace.
For the first time Prevention of Accidents an award only given basis of their skills and suitability for the work this year our annual attitude survey was to those organisations that achieve ten performed.
We are committed to making full managed 100% online and we also consecutive gold awards.
use of the talents and resources of all our introducedsmartphone technology.
employees and to ensuring that no employee We received a gold award from the Royal receives less favourable treatment on the The data is currently being reviewed across Society for the Prevention of Accidents for grounds of their colour, nationality, race, the business, which will result in agreed theManagement of Occupational Road Risk.
religion belief, ethnic or national origin, sex, action plans for areas of improvement.
Our Bury St Edmunds site was also given an marital or civil partnership status, gender International Safety Award with Merit reassignment, disability or past disability, fromthe British Safety Council.
part-time or fixed term status, pregnancy or CASE STUDY maternity, parental responsibilities, sexual orientation or age.
Apprenticeships Developing our talent Greene King apprentice Isabelle Pearson At Greene King, we recognise the wider Zero hours is an assistant manager at the Three Ponds benefits of developing internal talent and in Nottingham and has been shortlisted career paths that support increased employee It is company policy not to operate for the 2014 National Apprenticeship retention, employee engagement and provide zerohours contracts.
Isabelle progressed from long-term career opportunities.
part-time waitress to assistant manager, Workplace pensions thanks to the support she has received Apprenticeships We became fully compliant with Workplace through herapprenticeship.
We signed up to the governments Pensions Reform Regulations to enrol our apprenticeship scheme in February 2011 employees automatically into a qualifying Isabelle said: I chose to become an and, so far, more than 3,500 employees workplace pension in June last year.
apprentice as I wanted to further my haveachieved a qualification.
This year, education while developing my career.
wemade a commitment to recruit over 2,000 At each stage of my progression I found additional apprentices.
As our business grows, Support for our tenants that the apprenticeship provided great we are proud to offer the apprentices who Greene King has been helping people to run support to me and helped to enhance my join Greene King the opportunity to move their own pubs for over 200 years.
My apprenticeship straight onto a career path to allow them ofsupport we provide for our tenants and has given me more confidence and tofulfil their true potential.
lessees is central to attracting the best knowledge to carry out tasks, showing licensees to our pubs.
me different approaches, methods and Where we create new jobs when acquiring, attitudes to all aspects of my career.
refurbishing or building new businesses, we Our support is tailored to meet the individual work closely with Job Centre Plus to provide needs of our licensees from industry-leading opportunities through pre-employment training for them and their staff, to online training for the long-term unemployed business support providing easy access to a andyounger people.
wide range of marketing support.
Additionally, improved support to drive cellar quality began Creating jobs this year, with new annual visits from a cellar expert from our Brewing & Brands dispense Through the opening of new sites for Hungry team to all Pub Partners tenants, offering Horse and Farmhouse Inns we created 1,583 advice in their own cellar on how to improve new jobs across the country in the last year.
This is all underpinned by our professionally qualified BDMs, who are dedicated to ensuring all licensees are making the most oftheir business.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 37 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OUR ENVIRONMENT Our aim is to reduce the environmental impact water loggers installed in 190 of our pubs.
restaurants, hotels and offices such as of our business wherever we can.
Particular Weare working more closely with the 21 water natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas.
areas of focus for us are on reducing our energy companies that supply us to get their support Italso includes emissions from owned vehicles including company cars but excludes logistics and water consumption and on reducing waste for more frequent meter readings and audits across on the business.
which will help our managers identify and where we outsource this to third parties.
Refrigerant gas and F-gas emissions in respect of our breweries, pubs and restaurants are Energy We also invested in a second water recovery also included for 2013 14, although we do In terms of energy saving initiatives, our focus stage in our Bury St Edmunds brewing water nothave access to comparative data for this year was on introducing more LED treatment process, generating annual savings theprevious year.
lighting into our pub estate, with more than of around 23,500 cubic metres of water.
On a 310sites converting during the year, saving, combined basis, our breweries use 3.87 barrels We have used the UK governments GHG onaverage, 9% of the total electricity usage at of water to produce every barrel of beer.
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting each site.
Combined with previous conversions, 2013 for all scope 1 emissions with the exception over 40% of our Retail sites are now fitted with Water consumption, however, rose during of GWPs for non-Kyoto refrigerants R22 and LED lighting.
e. GHG emissions theyear, from 2.438m cubic metres to 2.688m R401A equating to 0.5t CO 2 cubic metres, largely due to an increase in the from refrigeration and air conditioning units We fitted 41 sites with voltage optimisers, have been determined using the screening size of the Retail estate and the increase in food reducing electricity usage, limiting wear and sales in the Retail estate.
method as described in the Environmental tear on electrical equipment and subsequently Reporting Guidelines 2013 and equate to extending the life of the equipment.
We also 1.0% of total reported emissions.
Waste replaced 160 boilers across our Retail business to save energy and increase efficiency.
We have continued to work hard to reduce Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions waste across the business.
We now have 232 associated with the generation of electricity We continue to encourage our teams in head sites where all of their waste is diverted from consumed in our sites.
Emissions have been office, breweries and retail outlets to use landfill and overall over 80% of our waste determined using the 2013 Carbon Reduction energy considerately, making regular use does not go to landfill.
We remain signatories Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency ofturn it off campaigns.
of the voluntary Food and Service Hospitality Schemefactor.
Agreement and have worked with WRAP We are continually investing in new ona number of initiatives to reduce food Electricity and gas figures in the table below technology to reduce energy consumption waste, optimise packaging and increase cover the CRC reporting period from 1 April and emissions.
In our Bury St Edmunds recycling rates.
to31 March each year, whilst all other figures brewery, we invested 500,000 in converting cover our respective financial years.
the brewery boilers to gas from the previous Mandatory greenhouse gas reporting light fuel oil, significantly reducing emissions.
Gas consumption reduced during the year, We amended our environmental reporting The Bury St Edmunds brewery also successfully helped by the mild, if wet, winter and spring, tocomply with the requirements of the passed its first triennial renewal of the ISO14001 while electricity consumption was again Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors environmental standard, following a five-day impacted by the increased focus on food sales Report Regulations 2013.
The table below audit covering all operations in Bury St Edmunds, and the increased number of Retail sites.
The shows the main greenhouse gas emissions in including the bottling hall.
e per 100k of chosen intensity ratio of CO 2 tonnes of CO equivalent CO e for our scope 1 2 2 turnover in our Retail and Brewing & Brands direct and scope 2 indirect CO emissions.
2 businesses is considered to be the most Water appropriate as the vast majority of our CO To help us identify sites that may have water Scope 1 relates to the direct emissions from 2 emissions relate to those businesses.
leaks in underground pipes, we now have the fuels we use in our breweries, pubs, 2013 14 tonnes of CO e Source of emissions 2012 13 tonnes of CO e 2 2 Direct emissions scope 1 Natural gas 41,414 42,174 Gas oil 603 393 Kerosene 2,052 3,729 LPG 2,380 2,411 Red diesel 277 102 F-gas 1,634 n a Owned vehicles 6,829 6,625 Indirect emissions scope 2 Electricity 109,292 100,710 Gross emissions 164,481 156,144 Turnover in Retail and Brewing & Brands 000 11,519 10,410 Tonnes CO e per 100k turnover 14.28 14.99 2 38 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
co. uk Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements OUR PRIORITIES FOR 2014 15 Food assurance Last year, we appointed a technical and quality manager who sits in our food buying team.
One of the key priorities of this role is to continue to review our current reporting and measurement of quality and make recommendations on areas for improvement and monitor implementation.
Healthy eating Our priority over the next year is to ensure that the business is compliant with new allergen legislation that is due to take effect in December 2014.
We are currently working towards a more structured allergen management programme to ensure allergen information is available to customers on request.
Salt targets As we continue to work towards our commitment of reducing salt in our supply chain, we are reviewing the salt content in several of our top ten product lines.
Responsible retailing We understand the importance of supporting local communities to address issues around social and health harms.
We are working with National Best Bar None, which promotes responsible management and operation of alcohol licensed premises, to re-launch the scheme to improve its profile and membership.
At a more local level, we are working with the local authority to roll out Best Bar None across the county of Suffolk.
Charitable support As we enter our third year in partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support, we are confident of delivering beyond our 1m target through fundraising activities across the business.
Our businesses also provide significant fundraising to local charities.
Community pubs support We will continue to help UK pubs to diversify into new services provision for their own communities.
We have again supported Pub is the Hub with funding for a further year.
Improve employee engagement It is our aim to continue to achieve year on year improvements in our employee engagement, which will be monitored through our employee engagement survey.
We will work on how we can improve areas and maintain other high scoring questions.
Apprenticeships We have pledged to recruit 2,000 new apprenticeships this year.
We have recently appointed a new training provider so we can offer our people the most current and engaging programmes available.
Health and safety We will continue to strive to identify and reduce health and safety risks and to improve the safety ofour premises.
Alcohol education While we have had an alcohol policy for some time, and we support treatment for employees who have dependency issues, we continue to look at implementing a new, company specific, alcohol education and awareness programme, to help prevent issues occurring and to highlight the impact of over-indulgence in alcohol.
Reduce CO We will aim to reduce CO emissions in our existing estate and to improve the ratio of CO emissions 2 2 2 torevenue in Retail and in Brewing & Brands.
Energy saving systems will continue to be installed where possible or appropriate.
Reduce water usage Our focus this year will continue to be on reducing water wastage across our Retail estate.
Reduce waste We will continue to aim for improvements in our waste recycling programme, with a view to reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 39
