Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Social responsibility At Greggs we are committed to keeping people, communities and values at the heart of our business Our commitment to keeping people, communities and values 1.
Making a difference to our local communities at the heart of our business is deep-rooted and can be traced Over the last 75 years Greggs has grown through the continued back to the establishment of the Greggs Foundation by support of its customers.
As a successful business we believe Ian Gregg in 1987.
Our social responsibility agenda focuses we have a responsibility to help the local communities in which on four key areas: we operate.
Making a difference to our local communities.
We focus our efforts in making a difference to our local 2.
communities in four key areas: 3.
Food our customers can trust.
Reducing our impact on the world around us.
i Our work with the Greggs Foundation ii Our work with other charities We take our social responsibilities very seriously, with the Chief iii Our work inclusion programmes Executive responsible for delivery, and the Board ultimately iv Our work with Business in the Community accountable for performance.
Delivery is managed through a Steering Group, chaired by the Company Secretary, comprising i Our work with the Greggs Foundation the Chief Executive and four members of the Operating Board.
An Operating Board Director champions each of the four key areas of focus, ensuring top level commitment across the business.
Making a difference to our local communities is championed by Richard Hutton, Finance Director.
A great place to work is championed by Roisin Currie, People Director.
Food our customers can trust is championed by Malcolm Copland, Commercial Director.
Reducing our impact on the world around us is championed by Raymond Reynolds, Retail Director.
In 2014 we carried out a stakeholder mapping exercise for each of our social responsibility pillars.
This has helped us to identify and prioritise or in some cases reinforce who our stakeholders are.
The next step is to develop comprehensive engagement plans which we aim to complete in 2015.
The Greggs Foundation is a grant-making trust closely associated with, but wholly independent of, Greggs plc.
Greggs remains a constituent of the FTSE4Good sustainability Its aim is to make a difference to people in need at the heart index and we continue to take part in the Business in the of the local communities which Greggs serves.
A significant Community Corporate Responsibility Index, achieving a SILVER proportion of the Greggs Foundations impact is achieved rating in 2013 and a 2-star rating in 2014. through the generosity of Greggs employees and customers in 2014 around 450,000 was raised in our shops and our bakeries for the Foundation, including 88,000 during our first-ever Breakfast Club Appeal and 35,000 during our first-ever Christmas appeal in support of homeless and isolated older people.
28 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Social responsibility continued Breakfast Clubs Number of clubs 304 300 255 220 200 180 151 100 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 Fundraising efforts such as this, combined with our annual An additional 141 clubs are supported by Greggs partners and donation 520,000 in 2014, enabled the Greggs Foundation by fundraising.
Partnership work has been key to the growth of to distribute a total of 1.5 million in support of a wide range Breakfast Clubs.
At the end of 2014, 115 clubs were supported of local community initiatives.
Now in its 28th year, the Greggs by generous partner organisations who share our aim of Foundation has given almost 20 million to support our improving learning opportunities for children in disadvantaged local communities.
For a list of partner organisations please see the Greggs Foundations website: www.
A long-standing part of our community strategy has been our commitment to school Breakfast Clubs, to which many Research shows that Breakfast Clubs can improve attendance, of our people lend their time and support.
Under the Greggs punctuality and behaviour amongst pupils, as well as increasing Foundations Breakfast Club model over 3.6 million free learning outcomes.
They have also been shown to strengthen wholesome breakfasts were supplied to children in 304 primary the school parent relationship and increase opportunities for schools in 2014.
Greggs provides free bread as well as a cash socialising.
The clubs provide over 900 parents and carers grant towards other running costs at 163 schools.
with volunteering opportunities that can help them to re-enter the world of work.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 ii Our work with other charities through the delivery of training sessions.
45 participants went on to carry out work experience placements with us and 23 secured paid employment.
A Taste of Greggs: Developed in partnership with Job Centre Plus, this programme offers work experience placements and employment, where possible, to young people.
In 2014 we provided 15 people with work experience placements and five with paid employment.
Work Programme: Shaped for Greggs by various work providers, this programme helps us to support the longer-term unemployed through the provision of work experience and, where possible, paid employment.
In 2014 we have supported over 135 individuals through work placements and provided almost 60 with paid employment.
In 2014 we were recognised for our commitment to improving the lives of disadvantaged people by the Employment Related Services Association ERSA, who awarded us the Large Employer of the Year accolade and Business in the Community BITC who gave our Ready to Work programme a Big Tick!
We lend significant support to other charities which our people and customers feel passionate about.
These include: the North of England Childrens Cancer Research Fund, the BBCs Children in Need appeal, the Royal British Legions Poppy appeal and DECs Ebola Crisis appeal.
Collectively we raised over 1 million for these causes in 2014.
North of England Childrens Cancer Run: Greggs has been the NECCR main sponsor since it was launched back in 1982.
Now in its 32nd year, over 6 million has been raised enabling researchers to make huge advances in the care that young patients receive, making their treatments less toxic and damaging and vastly improving recovery rates.
Now 80 per cent of children diagnosed survive the disease, compared to just 20 per cent 30 years ago.
BBCs Children in Need appeal: In 2014 we raised an amazing iv Our work with Business in the Community 865,000, bringing the overall total raised by Greggs to Greggs provided the first Business in the Community Business almost 6 million in the last seven years.
Connector secondment in 2010 11 and we have continued Royal British Legions Poppy appeal: Once again our our support for this important initiative.
Undertaking long-term customers supported the Royal British Legion Poppy appeal, secondments from their company, Business Connectors raising almost 170,000. become integrated into the community.
They build relationships DECs Ebola Crisis appeal: Through the continued generosity between local organisations, helping them to address some of our customers we were able to raise over 72,000 for of the challenges facing the community.
Support can range from inspiring young people into the world iii Our work inclusion programmes of work and the creation of start-up businesses for young For a number of years now we have been directly involved entrepreneurs, to forging partnerships between businesses in work inclusion initiatives that promote the employability of and schools from disadvantaged areas.
The programme people from marginalised groups.
In 2014 we helped more than has shown real positive impacts for the communities in 370 people to develop employability skills through the delivery of which Business Connectors operate and over two-thirds the following programmes, resulting in 87 people being offered of organisations receiving support have increased the quantity paid employment: or quality of the services they provide.
Ready to Work: Developed in conjunction with prisons So far BITC estimate that the programme has leveraged and probation trusts, this programme provides ex-offenders 14.8 million to support communities and Greggs is proud with assessment and interview experience, helping to raise their to have seconded eight Business Connectors.
Greggs now has strong working relationships with 26 prisons and nine probation trusts, helping us to reach over 240 individuals in 2014 a significant year-on-year increase 30 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Social responsibility continued 2.
A great place to work We have continued to develop our people throughout 2014, Our people are what makes our business successful.
We aim providing role-specific development for our operational teams to provide our people with a great place to work, where they feel as well as generic management and leadership development.
valued by listening, developing, rewarding and looking after them.
Our Career Pathways programme continues to thrive and provides four different routes to enable individuals to develop i Listening to our people into management, middle management, senior management We hold an Employee Opinion Survey EOS to give our people and potential directorship roles.
In 2014 we launched our Brilliant the opportunity to provide feedback.
In our 2014 EOS 89per Area Manager programme to all 143 of our Area Managers and cent of our people responded and we achieved another high the Brilliant ROM Retail Operations Manager programme and engagement score of 75 per cent 76 per cent in 2013 despite during 2014 all our ROMs have attended the four workshops.
a year of significant change for our business.
Our Brilliant programmes also extend to our bakeries with the delivery of the Brilliant Bakery Operations Manager, Brilliant We continue to promote initiatives to drive engagement in our Engineering Managers and Brilliant Team Leader Supervisor business including service recognition programmes.
In 2014 programmes all being delivered in 2014.
90 per cent of our we implemented a feedback mechanism for our people to use management population have received appropriate development on a daily basis Your Ideas Matter.
This can be accessed during 2014. by all our people and ideas are welcomed from all levels within the business and are reviewed monthly by our Operating Board.
iii Rewarding our people Since launching this initiative we have had over 180 ideas from We want all our people to be rewarded for their hard work, our people to support improvements within the business.
sharing in the Companys success and are proud to have continued our long-standing commitment to share 10 per cent We want all our people to be provided with a safe workplace and to of our profits with all employees.
We are delighted that we will be rewarded for their hard work, sharing in the Companys success.
be sharing 6.4 million of our 2014 profit with our people in 2015, and at the same time offering them the opportunity to participate ii Developing our people in our annual Share Incentive Plan, enabling them to re-invest We have developed our volunteering policy to allow our people their profit share into Greggs shares.
In 2014 we again ran to support groups and charities in their local communities.
our latest Share Save scheme available for all employees In 2014 a total of 512 days were donated, helping organisations with 12 months service, with 2,344 people taking part.
as diverse as primary school Breakfast Clubs, food banks, youth clubs and the Rivers Trust.
We are pleased that our volunteering achievements were recognised in 2014 when we were awarded the North East Employee Volunteering Business Award by Business in the Community.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 iv Looking after our people Gender statistics Greggs is committed to ensuring the health and safety of all The Board is proud of its reputation for bringing the Companys of our people and our customers.
best talent through the organisation and encouraging people to succeed regardless of gender, race or any other characteristic.
In 2014 we set ambitious health and safety targets across both As at 3 January 2015 one out of four of the most senior retail our retail and supply chain operations, however we fell short of managers was a woman, as were four out of the twelve bakery achieving these with only a 7.5 per cent improvement in retail managers.
The Board continues to believe it is in the best operations and a 10 per cent increase in supply chain.
interests of the Company to continue to bring women through to the very top of the organisation.
The programme which we We have therefore completed a number of change-driving launched in 2012 to encourage more women to strive for the initiatives across our Supply Chain, including the launch of a most senior positions in the business has continued to run.
safety leadership programme for all Supply Chain management and also a culture change programme for all site teams.
3514,036 14,044 100% We expect this to really help drive our safety performance in 2015.
In addition, our near miss reporting process has 80% become a key element of our approach and, as a consequence, our minor incident numbers have reduced by 23 per cent in 60% comparison to 2013.
Our North Lakes bakery celebrated three years without a reportable incident which demonstrated the site 40% culture in relation to health and safety.
20% Within Retail Operations, we have completed a health and safety 5 21 5,362 5,388 awareness week to drive awareness and performance and plan The Board Senior Employees Total 0% Management generally to repeat this in 2015.
In addition, we are currently reviewing our Female health and safety training materials to ensure they support our Male shop teams in delivering great performance in 2015.
On a more personal level we offer all our people access to the free and confidential Employee Assistance Programme, available Freedom of association 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
This provides our people At Greggs we recognise the right of all employees to freedom with face-to-face or freephone support, giving advice on of association and collective bargaining.
Whilst we do not anything from health and wellbeing to family and work issues.
have a formal Freedom of Association policy, the Company Our people are also eligible to join a Health Cash Plan through encourages all its employees in bakeries, shops and offices which employees can claim money back on the cost of checkto become, and remain, members of a union.
ups and treatments for themselves and their families.
We also offer childcare vouchers through our salary sacrifice scheme and Bribery and corruption incentives such as Cycle to Work that promote the health and Greggs has an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy which applies to all employees and prohibits the offering, giving, seeking or wellbeing of our people.
We have also launched an employee benefits site that offers our people access to a wide range of acceptance of any bribe in any form to any person or company by anyone acting on its behalf, in order to gain an advantage benefits for themselves and their families.
In 2014 we developed a human rights policy, a copy of which can be found on our corporate website, and we ensure that we treat Business conduct We have a specific policy that sets out the standards of ethical our people in line with internationally proclaimed human rights principles.
We have a range of policies in place, some of which behaviour that are expected of all employees.
are summarised below, demonstrating our effective management of human rights issues in the business: Whistle-blowing Greggs aims to operate in line with our values and with the Equality highest standards of honesty and integrity.
Our Whistle-Blowing Policy creates an environment where employees are able to raise Greggs is an inclusive organisation where no one receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, gender reconcerns without fears of disciplinary action being taken against them as a result of any disclosure.
assignment, nationality, national origin, marital status, colour, race, ethnic origin, creed or disability.
We are committed to Political donations our Equal Opportunities Policy from recruitment and selection, through training and development, appraisal and promotion.
Greggs has a clear policy forbidding political donations or contributions.
This includes financial and in-kind contributions made by the Company.
32 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Social responsibility continued 3.
Food our customers can trust iii Provision of transparent nutritional information We are continually working to ensure our food is of great quality, Nutritional information is now available on the Greggs Rewards so our customers can enjoy our products as part of a healthy, app, the website in line with the Food Information to Consumers balanced diet.
As customers have become more aware of health requirements and at the point of purchase for our entire range.
issues and food provenance we have undertaken work to We have developed an Allergen Information Guide to be held address concerns around fat, calories, salt, the transparency of in all shops which informs customers about the presence nutritional information and sustainability within our supply chain.
of all Major Serious Allergens, by recipe, upon request relating to all products.
This allows customers to make informed i Fat and calories decisions when they shop with Greggs.
We are signatories to the Department of Healths Public Health Responsibility Deal and have signed up to specific food pledges iv Sustainability and food provenance on the provision of calorie information to customers and the Customers have continued to take a greater interest in removal of artificial trans-fats from ingredients.
sustainability and food provenance in 2014.
As a verticallyintegrated business, we benefit from producing our own food We have also successfully grown sales of food-on-the-go for sale in our own shops, so we know exactly what ingredients Balanced Choice products, under 400 calories, to over go into our food and where these are sourced from.
The range growth has ensured we reduced the maintained our position that all ingredients in our own produced fat in our sandwiches by 12 per cent per 100 grams and reduced food remain free from artificial colours, artificial flavours, salt levels by 16 per cent per 100 grams without compromising hydrogenated vegetable oils, added trans-fats and genetically on the great flavour and quality our customers expect.
ii Salt Whilst we did publish, on our website, our Farm Animal Welfare Whilst the 2014 savoury range salt reduction target has been strategy and Ethical Sourcing Statement in 2014, we did not, deferred to 2015, we continued to focus on meeting the unfortunately, do so within the timelines set by the Business Department of Healths recommended levels of salt in bread Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare, and did not therefore 1 gramme per 100 grammes of bread.
The average salt content achieve Tier 4 as hoped.
We are however proud that our across our national bread lines has met this target since 2011. commitment to continuously improve and maintain the trust our This year we have also successfully reduced the salt content customers have in our great tasting food is now available in the in all our local bread lines and now all products in this category public domain.
We are also proud of the recognition afforded meet the DoHs target.
us by Compassion in World Farming with a Good Egg Award for changing all our shelled whole egg to Free Range supply.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 4.
Reducing our impact on the world around us We have a formal Environmental Policy in place and as a responsible business we believe we have an obligation to minimise the impact our operations have on the local and wider environment.
These impacts include energy and fuel usage, generation of waste, water usage, effluent discharges and refrigeration emissions.
Our most significant impacts continue to be energy fuel usage and waste and our successful work in landfill reduction and the benefit of photovoltaic and voltage optimisation systems in our production sites have allowed us to demonstrate great progress against our carbon reduction target.
Our aim is to reduce our carbon footprint measured in tonnes of carbon per million of turnover whilst continuing to grow sales to our customers.
i Carbon footprint a Global GHG emissions data In line with Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors We have reported on all emission sources which we deem Report Regulations 2013, we are reporting on our greenhouse ourselves to be responsible for, as required under the gas GHG emissions as part of our annual Strategic Report.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Our GHG reporting year is the same as our financial year, Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our operations 29 December 2013 to 3 January 2015. control and financial control boundaries.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are outside of our operational control.
Emissions from: Tonnes of CO e 2 Current Comparison b Carbon Trust Standard reporting year We measure our direct carbon footprint and hold the Carbon year 2014 2013 Trust Standard in recognition of our work on carbon efficiencies.
We complete the Carbon Disclosure Project on an annual basis.
Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities Scope 1 31,313 29,709 ii Waste management Fugitive emissions from refrigeration We are pleased that our continued focus on reducing waste Scope 1 5,691 5,173 to landfill has seen us surpass our target to recycle 90 per cent of waste from production sites.
We now divert 100 per cent of Gross electricity purchased for own use Scope 2 97,919 89,119 waste from these sites.
In addition to this, we continue to work closely with our waste management partners to ensure all of Companys chosen intensity our waste streams are processed through the most measurement: sustainable routes.
Tonnes of CO e per million of turnover 167.8 162.7 2 GROSS emissions include the use iii Key initiatives of PV generated electricity.
As part of our carbon reduction work we installed photovoltaic NET emissions are 97,323 89,046 arrays on the roofs of ten of our bakeries in 2013.
As a with an intensity measure of 167.1 162.6 consequence of this activity, we have been able to generate 1,204,833 kWh of electricity in 2014, saving almost 596 tonnes The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based of carbon.
on the UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013 and emissions factors from UK Governments 2014 GHG Within our retail operations, we have continued to use our Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
ECO shop to help develop and trial new initiatives to support our shop design.
As a consequence we have further extended The uplift in carbon emissions is directly related to the Department the inclusion of doors on self-service fridges, doors on shop of Environment and Rural Affairs DEFRA electricity emissions fronts as well as individual technologies to reduce operational factor which was increased by 10 per cent in 2014.
If the DEFRA energy use on self-service fridges.
We continue to investigate emissions factor had remained at the 2013 level then a 4.2 per new technologies from across the industry and include trial cent improvement would have been achieved in 2014. activities within all of our environmental forums.
The 2013 emissions have been verified by the Carbon Trust: Work has continued to increase the proportion of sustainable 2014 emissions are currently being verified by the Carbon Trust palm oil used, with 100 per cent of our fats now using certified as part of the review of our carbon footprint.
34 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Social responsibility continued The following pages summarise our social responsibility performance in 2014 and present our targets for 2015.
Social responsibility targets: 2014 Continue to utilise the skills of our people to promote the employability of young people Making a and those from marginalised groups, helping over 250 individuals in 2014. difference to our Extend the Greggs Breakfast Club partnership scheme to fund a total of 300 clubs communities by the end of 2014.
Raise over 350,000 for the Greggs Foundation to support good causes in our local communities.
Double the amount of our unsold food that we donate to good causes.
In our 2014 Employee Opinion Survey we will maintain our engagement score at 76 per cent.
A great place to work We will continue to expand our volunteering programme, donating at least 500 days and introducing a process to match the skills of our graded managers with the needs of local community and charity groups.
We will reduce RIDDOR accidents by: 20 per cent within our supply operations.
10 per cent within our retail operations.
65 per cent of management vacancies will be filled by internal candidates in 2014.
Deliver a 5 per cent salt reduction in our savoury range without compromising the great taste Food our and quality of our food.
customers Deliver a 5 per cent fat reduction in our sandwich range without compromising the great taste can trust and quality of our food.
Increase sales of our 400 calorie or less range by 10 per cent.
Achieve Tier 4 ranking in the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare.
Increase the proportion of Certified Sustainable Palm Oil we use in fats in our own Reducing our manufactured products to 100 per cent.
impact on the Deliver a 2.5 per cent improvement in our distribution fuel efficiency measured in world around us miles per gallon.
Address carbon emissions from energy usage tonnes per m turnover in our operations by: Reducing carbon in our production operations by 3 per cent.
Restricting carbon increase in our retail operations to 2.5 per cent.
Deliver zero waste to landfill from productions sites by the end of 2014.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 i ndicates the target is on schedule and that any interim objectives have been met.
indicates that the target commitment is progressing on schedule but not completed.
indicates we are not on schedule to meet the requirement for the given period of time but we may achieve the target on future reviews.
Social responsibility targets: 2015 Continue to utilise the skills of our people to improve the employability of people from marginalised groups, raising the profile of all programmes under the umbrella sub-brand Fresh Start.
Extend the Greggs Breakfast Club scheme to fund a total of 330 clubs, developing the models sustainability through partnerships and dedicated fundraising.
Increase employee awareness of the work of the Greggs Foundation.
Double the amount of unsold food that we donate to good causes to 200 tonnes.
Trial an education partnership to promote greater understanding of food and nutrition.
Make Greggs an even greater place to work and measure this through a 2 per cent improvement in response to the question I would recommend Greggs as a great place to work.
Ensure that 30 per cent of our volunteer days are matched to peoples skills and abilities providing both development to individuals and adding real value to our local communities and the charities that we work with.
Improve employee safety reduce RIDDOR accidents by: Supply: 10 per cent reduction of reportable incidents per hours worked.
Retail: 5 per cent reduction of reportable incidents per hours worked.
Drive our diversity agenda by opening up 80 apprentice vacancies to school leavers in 2015.
Drive our service culture across the business by ensuring all teams participate in Superstar Service and Your Ideas Matter across the year.
Continue to increase the number of healthier options for customers by: Developing our Balanced Choice range increasing sales by more than 15 per cent.
All pastry savouries will meet DoH Responsibility Deal salt targets.
All own-label cold drinks will be developed to ensure they contain no added sugar.
Implement our animal welfare strategy and achieve tier 3 ranking in the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare.
Develop customer communication re: allergens, undertake a benchmarking survey and formulate an activity plan.
Develop and trial a balanced scorecard for suppliers.
Complete our five-year target to reduce carbon per m turnover by 25 per cent compared to 2010 baseline by: Delivering 1.5 per cent improvement in logistics distribution fuel efficiency measured in 'miles per gallon'.
Reducing electricity usage across our retail operations by 3 per cent.
Reducing energy usage electricity and gas in our supply chain operations by 3 per cent.
