Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Responsible investment Ethics Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria of many professional and The Group culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
private investors who base their decisions on environmental, ethical Halma requires its employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow and social considerations.
The Group is a world leader in several key employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
Halma environmental technologies and has a reputation for honesty and introduced a Code of Conduct during 2011 12 which applies toall integrity in its relationships with employees, customers, business Group employees and our external business relationships.
suppliers to be of high quality and to operate to accepted international standards.
Halma operates a confidential whistleblowing policy with Social conditions can be improved for all through the creation of an external call centre, which enables all Group employees to raise wealth.
Halma creates wealth responsibly allowing our employees, any concerns they may have.
customers, business partners and shareholders to determine where this wealth is best distributed.
Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which extends to all business dealings and transactions in which we are Human Rights involved.
This includes a prohibition on making political donations, Halmas Human Rights and Labour Conditions Policy reflects the offering or receiving inappropriate gifts or making undue payments core requirements of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights toinfluence the outcome of business dealings.
Our robust policy and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at andguidance in this area are routinely reviewed.
Work, including the conventions relating to forced labour, child labour, non-discrimination, freedom of association and right to collective bargaining.
We do not tolerate practices which contravene these international standards.
Regulatory demands upon us vary considerably around the world, so Halma establishes the core structure to ensure that Group companies fully comply with legislative and regulatory requirements while permitting them to tailor their approach to their particular needs.
Compliance with, and respect for, these core requirements are integrated within our organisation.
Everyone in Halma is responsible for having due regard for human rights.
Managers and supervisors must provide leadership that promotes human rights as an equal priority to other business issues.
All employees are responsible for ensuring that their own actions do not impair the human rights of others, and are encouraged to bring forward, in confidence, any concerns they may have about human rights.
Our Chief Executive, Andrew Williams, has overall responsibility for ensuring that human rights considerations are integral to the way in which existing operations and new opportunities are developed and managed.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
