Corporate Responsibility continued Health and Safety Our People Halma companies are involved in the manufacture of a wide range Leadership in the global marketplace requires a group culture and ofproducts that protect and improve the quality of life for people an inclusive business environment where the best and brightest worldwide.
Therefore, safety is critical to the Group and is a major diverse minds, employees with varied perspectives, skills, and priority for management.
experiences, work together to meet customer demands.
We believe that employing the top talent from all groups within our communities, The Group manages its activities to avoid causing any unnecessary from many backgrounds and with varied experiences, helps us to or unacceptable risks to health and safety to our employees in the better serve our customers and gives us a competitive advantage work place or to the public as a result of our activities.
The policy is in the global marketplace.
To achieve this, we seek to hire, inspire, understood by all Group companies and was reinforced in 2010 11 develop and empower top talent from around the globe.
through improved guidance and reporting following a comprehensive review led by an external expert.
Periodically we complete a survey of employees to determine whether our core values are authentic in our organisation.
The Halma has an excellent health and safety record and a culture of survey establishes the values individual employees wish to see in our safety is deeply embedded within the Group.
To ensure each Group operating culture and to what extent they exist in our current culture.
company has appropriately embedded the updated Health and Safety procedures in their business, independent Health and Safety In 2006, our survey of senior managers showed that five 50% of reviews were performed in each operating company last year.
the values they wanted to see in our business were actually present.
These reviews were conducted with a view to ensuring a consistent In 2012, our survey was extended to over half of Group employees: approach in quality of reporting, internal processes, integration in at this time the survey showed that six 60% desired values were operations, appropriateness of company policies, culture of Health present in our business.
This indicated that there was a healthy level and Safety and also as a means of identifying any patterns or of alignment between the culture we aspire to have and the culture underlying causes of reported incidents.
We have continued to we actually have.
Since 2012, we have increased participation by over actively promote our safety culture throughout the year using the 60% by making the survey available in paper format as well as online, outputs from these reviews.
As a result, reporting of Health and and by offering it in four languages.
This years and last years surveys Safety incidents and corrective action where needed has been given showed that there continues to be a good alignment of five 50% an even higher profile.
This is a contributory factor in the group-wide matching values.
reduction in the number of days lost due to specified major injury No survey is capable of capturing all the appropriate sentiments, but accidents and reportable work-related injuries in 2013 14. our executives, who regularly visit all Group companies, agree that Given the autonomous structure of the Group, operational observable and valuable improvements in the Group culture have responsibility for compliance with relevant local Health and Safety occurred over recent years.
The Group will continue to monitor the regulations is delegated to the directors of each operating company.
survey results to enable us to better support our people in bringing We believe Health and Safety training is important and it is carried out these values and strengths to work so that they and we may derive within companies as appropriate.
This year an additional head office further benefit from them.
driven initiative to provide further IOSH Managing Safely training was organised for our UK companies.
Adequate internal reporting exists in order that the Groups Finance Director can monitor each companys compliance with this policy.
The Group collects details of its worldwide reported Health and Safety incidents, and these are available on our website at www.
We are also pleased to report that there were nowork-related fatalities in 2013 14 or prior years.
Injuries recorded 2014 2013 2012 Days lost due to reportable work-related injuries 118 382 301 Total recorded injuries to all employees 323 320 362 Specified major injury incidents and reportable incidents which result in more than three working days lost.
People We see diversity and inclusiveness as an essential part of our productivity, creativity, innovation and competitive advantage.
It is the foundation of a performance culture Jennifer Ward, Diversity Champion 44 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
