Sector Review Environmental & Analysis Products and technologies for analysis in safety, life sciences and environmental markets.
Market-leading opto-electronic technology and gas conditioning products.
Products to monitor water networks, UV technology fordisinfecting water, and water quality testing products.
Chuck Dubois, Sector Chief Executive, Performance Environmental& Analysis Sector Group The sector has delivered increasing revenue and profit growth as KPIs performance target the year progressed and made good progress on its reorganisation.
Revenue growth 9.3% 5% Action within the businesses to improve performance will continue 1 and we expect to see the benefits of this in the coming year, Profit growth 4.5% 5% 2 including more collaborative inter-company projects.
Return on Sales 19.1% 18% 3 ROCE 74.8% 45% 4 R&D % of Revenue 6.3% 4% Contribution to Group m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group Revenue 167 152 154 136 109 Profit 32 30 32 26 18 25% 21% 1 5 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figure.
2 5 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 5 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage ofsector operating net assets.
4 S ector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see Note 1 to the Accounts.
Market trends Sales to the scientific analysis market grew faster in 2013 14 than in Our Environmental & Analysis sector businesses operate in diverse previous years.
The global market for laboratory analytical instruments markets where sustained growth is delivered by three key drivers: and environmental sensors and monitoring is forecast to grow at about 6% per year until 2016.
Photonics technology is no longer just rising demand for basic resources such as energy and water a science and research tool, but is increasingly used in manufacturing increasing environmental monitoring and regulation processes: industrial photonics is the fastest growing photonics growing demand for healthcare sector worldwide.
In many countries water demand outstrips supply and water quality Environmental regulations in China are being strengthened and often fails to meet minimum standards.
The quality and scarcity of the government has made a series of multi-billion dollar funding water, and the need to reduce water treatment energy costs, are the commitments to increase controls on air and water pollution, key factors behind increasingly strict regulation and enforcement and decrease greenhouse gas emissions.
which drives demand for our water analysis and water and Chinas most heavily-polluting industries, including thermal power, iron wastewater treatment systems.
and steel, and petrochemicals will, in the future, have to comply with Increasing water scarcity is due to finite resources, population growth, international pollution standards.
New environmental regulations and increasing urbanisation in developing economies and climate change stronger enforcement in China will create increased opportunities for impact.
In about 15 years time almost half of the worlds population is our businesses which make analytical and monitoring equipment forecast to live in regions of high water stress or water scarcity.
Within for controlling environmental pollution.
the next 20 years water demand will exceed supply by40%.
US environmental protection regulations are also undergoing New carbon reduction regulations, such as the CRC Energy significant change, with many more stringent requirements being Efficiency Scheme in the UK, is increasing demand for cost effective issued by the EPA.
US government spending on environmental monitoring and remote transmission of data related to water usage monitoring is increasing.
As a result, we expect rising demand in and energy consumption.
America for our analytical technologies that monitor pollutants in trace amounts.
40 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Geographic trends In April 2014 we created a new subsidiary in China by transforming the Shanghai R&D, sales and manufacturing operations of our US-based Ocean Optics business into a stand-alone company to deliver an optimal service to Asian customers.
This company not only distributes spectroscopy products made by Ocean Optics in the USA, but is designing and developing products fit for purpose in China and Southeast Asia.
In the USA, we reorganised our multispectral sensing and imaging business by investing in a consolidated manufacturing centre.
Plans for deregulation of the UK commercial water market from 2017 are prompting UK water companies to increase investment in treatment and distribution to retain existing customers.
Continued economic difficulties in Europe significantly reduced spending by some of our key OEM customers in the water market.
China is now the worlds fastest growing water and wastewater treatment market.
It recently announced plans to invest almost 200billion in water treatment technology to control water resourcespollution.
Strategy As noted with the Medical sector, if exchange rates remain at current Our organic profit growth strategy for the Environmental & Analysis levels we expect an adverse impact on results in 2014 15 due to the sector centres on geographic expansion, with astrong focus on relative strength of Sterling in particular in relation to the US Dollar.
emerging markets, increased R&D investment in new product Revenue grew by 53% in the UK, dominated by large sales of flow development and continued diversification of the customer base.
pressure data loggers to UK water utilities as part of their preparation R&D will focus on products to meet emerging market customer for the deregulation of the UK commercial water market in 2017. needs.
Investments to develop emerging markets include a new There was mid-single digit growth in Mainland Europe and the USA business unit in India and local manufacture inChina.
whilst revenue from Asia Pacific declined by 5% as major contracts for certain water and photonics businesses last year were not Sales development in the US alternative energy market was cut repeated.
Restructuring completed during the year and additional back because progress on alternative energy projects depends senior management changes made shortly after year-end should on government funding, which has proven to be very variable.
improve the consistency of this sectors performance in the While we will aim to maintain world leadership in products to reduce medium term.
treated water loss in distribution networks, we succeeded in reducing Outlook dependence on water conservation technology sales to UK water Market growth prospects and key drivers for our environmental and companies within their cyclical 5-year investment programmes.
We analysis product niches remain strong.
We anticipate rising global diversified our customer base and achieved strong sales growth in demand in the Environmental & Analysis sector through increased non-water markets such as energy monitoring, building management regulation for water supply security and drinking water quality, plus systems and commercial remote data logging.
environmental pressures on wastewater discharge.
Our strategy for opto-electronic analytical products is to grow organic We are uniquely placed to develop systems for remote collection and profit by extending our offering in the life sciences and environmental management of environmental data through our technology portfolio monitoring sectors.
enhanced by the acquisition of ASL Holdings in 2013.
Performance New environmental regulations and stricter enforcement in China Environmental & Analysis achieved a pleasing full-year performance should significantly increase demand for our technology in coming after a disappointing prior year and some reorganisation in the first years.
Growth in India remains more elusive, but we expect to half.
Revenue increased by 9% to 166.5m 2013: 152.4m and 1 increase market share with new localised products.
At constant currency, organic revenue growth was 5% and profit was up 2%.
We have a strong pipeline of Environmental & Analysis acquisition prospects in both developed and emerging markets.
Return on Sales was 19.1% 2013: 19.9% which represented a useful improvement from 18.2% at the end of the first half.
The consolidation of our two optical coating business facilities has gone to plan with a newly expanded facility now operational in Florida and product lines being transferred from Colorado.
In addition, our main photonics business, Ocean Optics, has spun-off a new Halma subsidiary in China while our water UV companies have restructured their distribution channels in the USA.
The total cost of these restructuring projects was below 1m in the year.
In addition to the reorganisation costs noted above the sector incurred the cost of fully addressing a supplier component quality issue within the water monitoring business.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41
