Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Carbon Footprint We have stepped up our activities internationally to comply with The Groups policy on carbon is published on our website and has the new mandatory carbon reporting requirements which UK public been distributed and explained to all Halma business units.
A senior listed companies are subject to under the Large and Medium-Sized executive in each of our higher impact business units is responsible Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulation 2008 for implementing the carbon policy at local level.
Our Finance Director, asamended in August 2013.
Kevin Thompson, has principal responsibility for coordinating and We have reported on all of the emission sources required under monitoring the policy.
theCompanies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations for the reporting period 31 March 2013 to 29 March 2014.
We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
Reduction of the Groups carbon footprint has received increased attention since 2007 We have employed the Operation Control definition to outline with the initial objective of a 10% reduction in the Groups total carbon our carbon footprint boundary: included within that boundary are emissions relative to revenues over three years to March 2010.
We Scope 1 and 2 emissions from manufacturing sites and offices have worked hard to reduce the energy impact of our facilities and which we own and operate.
Excluded from our footprint boundary achieved that target for the last period from 2010 to 2013.
Whilst we are emissions from manufacturing sites and offices which we do recognise that reduction by another 10% would be challenging for the not own and control and emissions considered non-material by third period, we have set ourselves the same target to March 2016 the business.
We have reported on emissions from Scope 1 and 2 and are working hard to achieve this.
We are pleased to report that emissions sources with some Scope 3 emissions sources included we are still on course to meet our three-year target.
emissions for Scope 3 have been calculated from business air travel only.
Refrigerant gases were taken into account this year as an From April 2010, we have worked with providers of energy efficiency improvement to our carbon emissions reporting processes.
and carbon reduction solutions to ensure compliance with the new Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC We have also used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and which is the UKs mandatory energy saving scheme administered Reporting Standard revised edition and guidance provided by the bythe Environment Agency.
We are in full compliance with the UKs Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs Defra CRCrequirements.
All major UK sites have received an energy onvoluntary and mandatory carbon reporting.
Emission factors survey and set an action plan for improved energy usage.
The wereused from the UK governments GHG Conversion Factors Groups environmental performance will continue to be reported forCompany Reporting2013.
both in theAnnual Report and Accounts and on our website.
The Group does not operate a fleet of distribution vehicles although we do own a number of company cars.
From May 2007, we implemented a cap on permissible CO emissions of all UK 2 company vehicles and have extended an equivalent requirement to the USA and Europe.
Limits are usually lowered each year so as to reduce our vehicles environmental impact.
We have taken the decision to maintain the same limits for company vehicles as last year.
We will keep this under review for future years.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Reporting We are now working with our newly appointed consultants to better monitor our environmental performance and future external reporting requirements.
The Group is committed to examining the establishment of green procurement policies and increasing our use of recycled materials.
GHG Emissions data for the period 31 March 2013 to 29 March 2014 CO emissions 2 global tonnes Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 4,199 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 17,105 Scope 3: Business air travel 4,810 1 Total gross emissions 26,113 Intensity measure of tonnes of CO2 emissions per m revenue 38.6 Note 1.
Due to the changes introduced in Defras 2013 conversion factors and the categories of reporting, there is a reduction in our emissions due to the disaggregation of Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
There is no like-for-like comparison with 2012 13 emissions.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
