Corporate Responsibility The Environment Commitment to Corporate Responsibility We have an excellent long-term record and a clear strategy for Halma companies are involved in the manufacture of a wide range addressing environmental issues that affect our businesses and of products that protect and improve the quality of life for people for developing products that protect the environment and improve worldwide.
This report focuses on areas of progress and our safety at work and in public places.
performance for all areas of corporate responsibility which are considered to be material by our stakeholders and are also Our products important to the success of our Groups business.
Halma has Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in monitoring developed meaningful key performance indicators KPIs that and improving the environment.
Halma brands lead the world in a reflect the importance the Group places on corporate number of technologies which help to minimise environmental responsibility and enable the Board to monitor the Groups damage.
Our principal environmental technologies are water leakage progress in meeting its objectives and responsibilities in these detection and wireless monitoring, gas emissions monitoring, water areas.
Further details are given on pages 26 and 27. and effluent analysis, UV water treatment and optical sensing.
We promote the use of UV water sterilisation which eliminates the need These areas of emphasis include health and safety, employee to use dangerous chemicals, as well as making products that engagement and development, human rights and ethics, minimise the waste of clean water.
Safety is critical to the Group and is a major priority.
We recognise the necessity of Our commitment to the development of equipment for measuring safeguarding the health and safety of our own employees while at and monitoring environmental changes and controlling the damaging work and operate so as to provide a safe and comfortable working impact of industrial activities is long term.
We are the major world environment for employees, visitors and the public.
Our policy is supplier in several of these areas.
to manage our activities to avoid causing any unnecessary or Our impact unacceptable risks to health and safety and the environment.
The environmental effect of our operations is relatively low compared Halma has an excellent health and safety record and a culture to manufacturers in other sectors.
Our manufacturing model is of safety is deeply embedded within the Group.
decentralised permitting our operations to be located close to their Our core values are Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment and customers.
Manufacturing operations are established across the Customer Satisfaction.
These core values have been selected world for this very reason rather than to save labour costs.
The ethos following extensive surveying of employees across the Group.
of being close to our customers reflects the importance we place on Our culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
We the quality of our products and the service levels we provide to our encourage our employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow customers.
It also makes our operations more flexible and responsive employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
to their markets and customers.
With operations spread around the globe, our supplier base is understandably fragmented.
Therefore, We recognise that our employees determine our success and responsibility for vetting and managing suppliers is devolved to local therefore continue to invest in and encourage their development management while meeting the Groups ethical standards.
more and more each year, not only with a suite of Halma development programmes, but also through clear leadership Environmental Management System EMS and decisive action.
By ensuring that our team has the approach We are committed to developing and implementing an EMS and skills required to succeed we are better placed to meet the throughout the Group to measure, control and reduce our challenges of the future.
We have developed performance indicators that assist local management in implementing the policy and We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, in ultimately developing an EMS.
The requirement for an EMS and the common with all businesses, our activities have an environmental related reporting has been rolled out to all UK business units, which impact.
Our strategy is not to have capital-intensive manufacturing represent approximately 36% of Group production facilities in terms processes and to operate close to our end markets in terms of of external turnover.
geography, so the environmental impact of our operations is relatively low compared to manufacturers in other sectors.
We All Group companies are encouraged to undertake ISO 14001, also recognise that we can improve our own environmental the international environmental accreditation, where warranted.
The performance and so resources are deployed to actively reduce requirement to implement an EMS will be extended to the rest of our own carbon footprint.
Halma has been a member of the the Group in the medium term.
In terms of revenue, currently 18% FTSE4Good UK index since its establishment in July 2001.
2013: 20% of the Group has ISO 14001 approval.
Group companies are also encouraged to improve energy efficiency, reduce waste and emissions and reduce the use of materials in order to minimise their environmental impact.
A good example is the 250,000 solar panel installation undertaken in 2013 14 by our subsidiary, Apollo, which has improved their energy efficiency for the longer term.
The Group established baseline data in 2004 05 on emissions to air and water, water and energy consumption, and waste production, the results of which are updated on the Halma website each year.
The data collected for the past number of years has enabled the Group to set comprehensive and quantifiable objectives for reducing its environmental impacts in those areas and to set and monitor targets for reduction in key areas.
The collected data confirms that the main area of impact on the environment is energy consumption.
42 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
