Corporate Responsibility continued Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled people are always fully People development is considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is a key part of our organic made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled people growth strategy.
should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee consultation Complementing the HEDP is a programme for subsidiary managers The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its and supervisors the Halma Management Development Programme employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters HMDP.
During the year, four HMDP and two HMDP programmes affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting were completed.
Programmes were held in the USA, Europe theperformance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and andAsia.
informal meetings, the Group collaboration platform and the annual financial statements.
In 2011, we introduced a new programme, Halma Certificate of Applied Technology HCAT, targeted at our technical engineers to Employee representatives are consulted routinely on a wide range equip them with a broader understanding of Halmas technology, ofmatters affecting their current and future interests.
improve their productivity and provide specific skills training in areas People development such as project management.
Three such programmes, with 51 People development is a key part of our organic growth strategy.
participants, have been completed with great success.
We run a number of people development programmes.
Our training The Halma Graduate Development Programme HGDP was programmes are constantly reviewed to reflect changing training introduced during 2011 12 and the first participants started working needs amongst our companies.
The Halma Executive Development with us in mid-2012.
HGDP is targeted at engineering, science and Programme HEDP, which is based on our recognition of the technical graduates with the potential to become future leaders of fundamental part our people play in the success of the Group, our companies, or next generation specialists driving our technology.
continued to strengthen in recent years.
HEDP is an integrated The programme lasts 18 to 24 months and is based on placements in development plan for our senior people including the next our various operating companies.
Through project work, participants generation of Managing Directors and Sector Chief Executives.
quickly assume responsibility and learn in detail how businesses Our objective is to provide these individuals with the tools and training operate.
We support participants through residential training modules they need to achieve more in their existing role and potentially to to help develop communication and teamwork skills alongside a advance through the organisation if their achievements merit it.
mentoring programme for personal development.
Our intake from HEDP is aimed at employees already serving on subsidiary boards 2011 12 is now identifying permanent positions within the Group.
but we also encourage applications from senior functional managers Training who can demonstrate they already have equivalent responsibilities Cumulative number of candidates that have completed: and will benefit from the programme.
There are approximately 270 such eligible employees in total.
HEDP HMDP HCAT The programme has been developed from a proven course structure and is specifically and continuously tailored to suit Halmas needs, aligning the content to the Groups four core values of Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment and Customer Satisfaction.
It focuses strongly on strategic and leadership capabilities and developing personal attributes commitment, determination and resilience.
There is an emphasis on performance management and team development.
It includes skill based elements such as sales and marketing management, project leadership, corporate governance, finance and innovation, but all are presented in a strategic context.
Seventeen programmes have been successfully completed.
12 13 14 12 13 14 12 13 14 Once a significant proportion of executives had completed HEDP, afollow up programme, HEDP, was introduced to provide updated training and to reinforce the original course contents.
