34HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 CorPorAte reSPonSibiLitY rePort ALiStAir Cox CHief exeCutive deAr SHAreHoLder success of the economies and communities our base year to 2014.
I am pleased we are Our employees can be very proud of their in which we operate.
Our path to corporate starting out with robust data accuracy in this fundraising efforts.
Each year our employees responsibility will focus on our workplace, our first year of mandatory GHG reporting and around the world give up some of their time market place, our community and reducing we will work towards reducing our carbon for great causes to raise money to help the environmental impact of our global emissions going forward.
At Hays we value the contribution carbon footprint.
ALiStAir Cox they make to society and donate to a number I am pleased to report that this year we Chief executive of charities across the globe.
have attained 100% data collection for our 28 August 2014 I am delighted to report that this year our UK Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions.
This & Ireland employees have raised 80,000 for has led to improved accuracy in our data the Brain Tumour Charity.
This is more than emission collection and the resetting of double our first year target.
The very nature of our business activity is based on helping others.
In the last 12 months we have helped some 57,000 people around the world find their next permanent job and vALueS around 200,000 people find their next contract or temp role.
At a time when Only by truly understanding our candidates and clients needs and challenges, both businesses in general have come under the locally and globally, can we help people and companies achieve lasting impact.
Our values spotlight over the last year, as society aim to reflect this commitment and underpin everything we do.
Our values are: questions the value they bring to our world and our communities, I believe that helping ExPERT INQUISITIvE so many people secure the next leg on their As experts across 20 specialisms and 33 Were always curious, wanting to own personal career journey is a fantastic countries, we have a deep understanding understand more about the roles people example of the benefits that our business of issues and challenges locally with an are being recruited for, as well as the world brings to the world where we live and work.
ability to also solve them globally.
That is how we build deeper What we do makes a big difference to every knowledge into what makes people fit single one of those hundreds of thousands culturally and how they can achieve their of people we have helped.
Weve also created hundreds of new opportunities for people to join Hays and AMBITIOUS PASSIONATE build their career here too.
So not only do As a results-orientated company we are we help our clients grow, we have also done ABOUTPEOPLE continually driven to succeed.
Our energy just what we see them doing and invested in Hays is the ultimate people business.
We and dynamism make us ambitious for our growing our own headcount.
We understand are passionate about creating valuable people, clients and candidates, and for the that the right person in the right role can relationships with everyone we work with.
impact recruiting can have on their lives.
transform that individuals life and enhance a Our enthusiasm compels us to find the right business.
It is in this way, that we will continue person for the right role, and help clients to contribute to the wider growth and deal with whatever issues they face.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 34HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 35 employees employee engagement emPLoYee engAgement As a people-centred service provider, our Each year, we conduct TALKback, our success is directly related to the quality and globalemployee engagement survey.
Accordingly, we In2014we again saw good employee 85% strive to recruit, train, develop and retain the interestwith an 84% participation level best talent in our industry.
It is imperative to and areported engagement level of 85% 85% 84% 83% 81% our success that Hays is a company that 2013:84%.
Based on the results of the people want to work for as well as do survey, key drivers in employee engagement business with.
in Hays during 2014 continued to be learning and development, leadership and direction, Learning and development culture and collaboration.
Employees at all levels of our business are supported by structured, tailored, learning diversity and development programmes.
This starts People are at the core of what we do with a comprehensive induction on joining andtherefore to us diversity means Hays and then at each level as our employees understanding and reflecting the community progress through the organisation.
in which we operate, building loyalty with 2011 2012 2013 2014 ourcolleagues, candidates and clients.
Age, Our aim is to train and develop the best gender, ethnicity, physical appearance, people in the industry.
We encourage the our marketplace religion, education and beliefs are all valued ongoing learning and development of all We are committed to dealing with clients and everyone has the opportunity to employees to allow them to maximise their andcandidates openly, honestly and contribute to our success as a business work performance, help them to achieve withintegrity.
corporate objectives and reach their Our recruitment consultants front the fullpotential.
Our aim is to create an open, honest and business and their role in any service vibrant working environment and to ensure Training at Hays is a partnership between encounter with candidates or clients, and the that all our colleagues feel part of Hays theemployee, their line manager and the relationships that follow, are critical to our and are respected as individuals.
All of our recruitment consultants join Hays at entry level and undergo a We have a very diverse employee are trained in offering the best possible client detailed induction programme.
This forms population in terms of ethnicity, with and candidate experience, details of which part of our Developing Experts programme around 80 different nationalities are provided in sector-specific operation which provides training to our recruitment represented in our global workforce.
manuals and against which sector teams consultants as they progress through each areassessed on a regular basis.
employee welfare stage of their career at Hays.
Training is a Our people are the key to our success and Supplier Code of Conduct combination of online and classroom-based their welfare is important to us.
With everHays is a people-to-people business and its learning with practical coaching provided by increasing pressures at work and home, supply chain can be equated to its candidate line managers and senior leaders.
there are times when we all need some pool.
Where we do have traditional suppliers, Internal transfers and global mobility are extra support to balance the demands we expect them to operate in an ethical, critical to the organic growth of our business.
That is why we provide legally compliant and professional manner.
This approach not only supports growth, but a free and confidential employee assistance The standards that we expect from these enables our employees to gain experience programme to every employee in the Group.
suppliers are detailed in our Supplier Code ofworking in different areas of the Hays of Conduct, a copy of which can be found We conduct our business in a manner which business around the world.
strives to safeguard the health and safety Strong leadership and management are ofour employees and visiting clients and CommunitY SuPPort essential to our business.
A Health and Safety programme Our passion for people goes beyond supported in their career at Hays through our comprising a risk assessment, policy recruitment to support various local charities Fast Forward and Advanced Management implementation and monitoring covers the and causes.
We encourage our employees Programmes, which deliver a broad executive full range of workplace issues from accident totake part in volunteering, fundraising curriculum.
Each year, the Board and reporting to home working.
This programme activities and to donate funds to charities Management Board review the succession is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis.
nominated at country and local level.
This planning needs of the Group with a view to ensures that our charitable efforts are developing the future leadership of Hays.
spread across a wide range of good causes and have maximum impact.
gender diverSitY 2014 2013 Female plc Board directors 2 out of 9 22% 2 out of 9 22% Female senior leadership and management 12 out of 59 20% 14 out of 65 21% Female employees 5,025 out of 8,237 61% 4,705 out of 7,841 60% 36HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 CorPorAte reSPonSibiLitY rePort Continued Charitable giving HTML and Python in coding sessions run women in work Employees are encouraged to donate to by volunteers.
Several CoderDojo events To show our support of women in the world charity in a tax-efficient manner: in the UK took place during the year including UK Dojos of work Hays has supported several initiatives this is through the Give As You Earn payroll held with the Duke of York at Buckingham in various countries around the globe.
giving scheme administered by the Charities Palace, Barclays in Cheshire and London and Our Christchurch office in New Zealand Aid Foundation.
a high-profile Dojo with The Duke of York at held an inaugural Women in Construction our London Cheapside office in March.
In In the UK, Hays employees in the 2014 Awards to recognise and reward womens the same week we also hosted a Dojo financial year raised 80,000 for the Brain excellence in the construction industry and with MoneySuperMarket in North Wales.
Tumour Charity which was an exceptional companies committed to developing effort against a target of 30,000.
The In Hungary we collected and wrapped womens careers in the industry.
The awards Company matched the employees target presents at Christmas and gave them to are the first of their kind in Christchurch and to give a total donation of 110,000.
Baptista Szeretetszolglat Baptist Charity due to the overwhelming success Hays will Foundation, who distributed them among look to extend these awards across In the financial year ended 30 June 2014, children in need.
Wellington and Auckland in 2015. charitable donations made by the Group amounted to 206,700 2013: 182,300.
A key example of giving generously in Hays In the UK we have started a programme Canada is the time and effort contributed called Leading Women, which is an initiative Highlights by our employees towards the CIBC Run for which promotes women in the work place.
The 110,000 donated to the Brain Tumour the Cure, which is a five kilometre run or walk The groups aims are to develop personal Charity was raised by our employees taking in support of breast cancer research.
For and professional skills of women in the time out to run marathons, climb mountains the past three years we have been an world ofwork.
and organise quiz nights and bake sales.
47 staff undertook seven challenges in In Australia we have achieved the Employer 24 hours in Snowdonia to raise 30,000, In Australia, our colleagues raised of Choice for Women accreditation for the which is one example of the way our UK AUD$37,134 for beyondblue, an independent, past 11 years, of which we are very proud.
employees are taking part in raising not-for-profit organisation working to Human rights money for good causes.
increase awareness and understanding of At Hays we are fully committed to our Code depression and anxiety in Australia and to In Germany, Hays has been donating of Conduct and Ethics Policy, which reflects reduce the associated stigma.
The funds 10 to charity each time a placement is made, the way in which we operate, including in were raised through a variety of local office directly linking the financial support offered relation to human rights.
All staff within the events, from client golf days to clothes swaps, to the charity with the business success of Hays Group are expected to act with integrity trivia nights and a World Cup ranking Hays Germany.
The charity being supported, and honesty and behave in a way that is above competition.
Kinderkrebs Stiftung Childrens Cancer reproach, as well as treat people fairly and Foundation, helps children and young adults In New Zealand, the charity Canteen is with courtesy and respect, be responsible, battling cancer.
With the money raised, Hays supported and this year NZD$11,162 was respect diversity and communicate openly.
Germany supports, among other things, a raised by employees, matched by a $10,000 Included in our Code of Conduct is an Equal full-time doctors post in paediatric oncology donation from Hays.
The four offices in New Opportunity Policy.
At Hays we make every at the University of Heidelberg and a partZealand ran quiz nights, auctions and hired effort to ensure that no discrimination arises time post in the paediatric clinic at out the office for a Tv show.
during the recruitment, the employment CharitBerlin.
Elsewhere, Hays donated Hays in Singapore formed a partnership with and the period after employment of any CHF20,000 to the Swiss charity Schweizer the Singapore Cancer Society SCS.
Over employee for reasons of gender, sexual Kinderkrebshilfe for their project Family the past year the local office has run several Holidays in Meiringen, and 6,000 to the events, including multicultural lunch days, Austrian charity stereichsiche KinderkrebsHAYS emPLoYeeS wHo business development blitzes and themed Hilfe for their Winter Camp project.
Staff also took part in the undertook Seven Hays Talent Solutions has been awarded annual SCS Race Against Cancer fun run.
CHALLengeS in 24 a ground-breaking contract to deliver a Through these initiatives employees have highly bespoke Early in Career programme raised SD$9,000 this year.
All money raised HourS in SnowdoniA to Santander UK.
The contract will see us was matched dollar for dollar by Hays.
rAiSed 30,000 for delivering a revolutionary new service that tHe brAin tumour includes engagement with schools and school children as young as eight to address CHAritY long-term perceptions of banking in a future generation of workers, support for schools career services and after school clubs.
This will provide work experience opportunities to school children from deprived backgrounds across Santanders corporate sites in the UK, enabling access to over 300 apprenticeships nationwide in an attempt to improve socialmobility.
In the UK we also support CoderDojo, a notfor-profit organisation, which supports young people, between seven and 17 years of age, in learning how to code, develop websites, apps, programs and games using Scratch, Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 36HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 37 As part of its corporate social responsibility programme, Hays supports the full-time doctors post of Dr. Beutzner left at the Department of Oncology, Haematology, Immunology and Pulmonology at Heidelberg Childrens Hospital in Germany.
orientation, marital status, creed, colour, race, by countries, including operational and intensity ratio nationality, ethnic or national origin, religious vehicle use, electricity consumption and We have measured our annual emissions in or other belief, political opinion, spent business travel.
This year we also included relation to employees.
As a people-based convictions, disability or age, and all data on refrigerant and other Transport and business, number of employees is a employees are expected to deal with all Distribution T&D loss calculations which we quantifiable factor associated with our persons with the same attention, courtesy have not reported previously.
This year our employee intensity and consideration.
This support of equal collected, our GHG emission results are per tonne CO e was 2.22.
2 opportunities applies not only as a direct detailed below.
initiatives for reducing gHg emissions employer, but also in our introduction of We have extended the accuracy and breadth Improvement in the accuracy of data entry candidates to clients.
across the business has triggered the of our environmental reporting through environment improved data collection.
recalculation of our base year, so along with Hays is pleased to have received ISO 14001 this year being the first year of mandatory We continued the Switch-it-Off campaign environmental management certification, reporting, we have chosen to make 2014 our around the Group with particular focus on which demonstrates our commitment to base year for future year comparisons.
Although turning off office lighting, air conditioning environmental management.
we have previously reported on emissions, it is and IT equipment when not in use.
We also not appropriate to compare the data or use a In this section we include our mandatory encourage teleconferencing to reduce previous year as a baseline year due to the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions GHG travel emissions.
improved accuracy of this years data.
emissions in compliance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors methodology Report Regulations 2013.
Carbon Smart conducted the verification engagement in accordance with ISO 14064- Our reporting year for GHG emissions is 3:2006 E specification with guidance for 1April to 31 March and our GHG emissions the validation and verification of greenhouse data was independently verified by gas assertions.
The Hays global carbon footprint, including global greenhouse gas emissions data the process for arriving at this carbon We have developed and rolled out an online footprint, was prepared in accordance with, carbon footprint reporting portal which has and verified against, the WRI Greenhouse allowed us to collect data through the portal Gas Protocol.
from Hays offices around the world, grouped greenHouSe gAS emiSSionS 1 Impact Scope Resource Total GHGs tonnes CO e % contribution to total 2 Direct Scope 1 Operational Fuel 136 1 vehicle Fuel 4,962 28 Refrigerant 59 0 2 Indirect Scope 2 Electricity 5,937 33 District Heating 263 1 Scope 3 Air Travel 5,341 30 Rail Travel 687 4 Electricity T&D losses 481 3 total direct and indirect 17,866 100 1 Greenhouse gas emissions are stated in tonnes of CO e carbon dioxide equivalent, comprising carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide for the 12-month period ended 2 31March 2014.
Out of Scope Indirect emissions, which were the biogenic part of vehicle fuels, totalled 38 tonnes of CO2e.
2 All international electricity related emissions were calculated based on a CO conversion factor.
CO e conversion factors are not currently available for international electricity.
