HellermannT HellermannTyton yton 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility HellermannTyton is committed to responsible corporate behaviour.
We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical conduct has an important impact.
We take our corporate social responsibilities CSR seriously and Employees are committed to advancing our policies and systems across the The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre Group to ensure we address and monitor all aspects of CSR that of employees within the context of an operating structure that are relevant to our business.
These include good ethical behaviour, encourages their contribution and development.
concern for employee health and safety, care for the environment and community involvement.
An environment that fosters innovation and supports a culture of entrepreneurship and partnership is critical to We strive to maintain a productive and open dialogue with HellermannTytons success.
all parties who may have an interest in our activities, including customers, suppliers and employees.
We conduct regular customer Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are satisfaction surveys, monitor supplier performance and actively developed for both technical and management staff.
Employees are encourage feedback from our employees.
provided with numerous learning and development opportunities to fulfil their potential.
A wide variety of both technical and managerial The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is committed courses and training materials are available to employees.
todeveloping and implementing appropriate policies while These development opportunities are structured to align with both adhering to a fundamental commitment to create and sustain longthe Groups and its business units goals and objectives.
The Board does not believe that, to date, the activities ofthe Group have presented any significant environmental risks.
Leadership development and succession planning is critical to the success of the business.
These plans are regularly discussed and Ethics updated as the competition for talented employees increases and the leadership needs of the business grow.
Formal performance HellermannTyton requires all of its business to be conducted in compliance with high ethical standards of business practice.
reviews are conducted and are linked to the values of the We apply these standards to all dealings with employees, organisation.
The Group is committed to providing equality of customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Full support is given to the The Groups ethics policy has been developed to ensure that the employment and advancement of disabled persons and this is Groups business adheres to high ethical and legal principles, and to reinforced through the Groups ethics policy.
set standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and Breakdown of Directors and employees operations worldwide.
Male Female The following is a summary of the ethics policy.
Directors 6 All employees have the right and responsibility to ensure Senior managers excluding Directors 9 2 that HellermannTytons business is conducted according Employees 2,160 1,631 tohigh ethical and legal principles Total 2,175 1,633 We will act in a manner that is consistent with applicable laws and regulations Discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated The Group does not make political donations No bribes shall be given or received and we comply with the Bribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Conflicts of interest must be avoided We aim to be a responsible partner in our local communities Employees are encouraged to report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings and are supported if they do so Strategic Financial Other HellermannT HellermannTyton yton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 21 Health and safety Several manufacturing locations have installed solar panels, removed high-discharge lighting and replaced them with LED lighting.
The Chief Executive is the Director appointed by the Board to have responsibility for the health, safety and environmental performance Community of the Group.
The Group health and safety policy places HellermannTyton recognises the importance of local communities responsibility for the management of health and safety on the local and through our charitable donations policy we strive to be a business unit management, who are supported by Group Internal responsible partner in the communities in which we operate.
Control, Internal Audit and local external advisers, where necessary.
We encourage all our businesses to support the particular needs of Each business unit has a designated senior individual to be responsible their communities by contributing to local charities and community for ensuring the business unit complies with local statutory health and initiatives.
Support takes the form of employee time and skills, gifts safety regulations as well as Group policy.
All business units provide in kind and cash donations.
employees with a written health and safety policy.
For example, in Plymouth a donation was made to the childrens An annual internal report on our health and safety performance ward of the local hospital, and in South Africa we provide free basic iscollated from a questionnaire completed by all business units.
electrical training for previously disadvantaged contractors.
Independent external reviews of the Groups health and safety By encouraging our employees to become involved in fundraising performance are conducted annually.
Any recommendations activities for local concerns and community initiatives, arising from these reviews are addressed by the members of the HellermannTyton continues to support all our employees Executive Committee and management teams at the relevant andbusinesses in finding ways of helping their communities.
Regular designated health and safety awareness training Carbon emissions reporting programmes are also carried out, particularly at our manufacturing sites.
Information about the Groups health and safety performance Data from the largest manufacturing locations the UK, Germany, and significant risk exposures are provided to executive management the USA, Japan, Brazil, France, South Africa, China and Singapore, and the Board.
which account for 95% of the total Group spend on power, have been collected for electricity and gas usage, as well as business Environmental mileage following the guidance issued by Defra.
This percentage Good environmental practice and the impact that our operations have is higher than last year as we have increased the scope of the on the environment are of great importance to HellermannTyton.
reporting in 2014 to include more of our manufacturing locations.
The main aim of HellermannTytons Environmental Policy is to comply The remaining 5% requires considerable additional resources to with local, state and national environmental legislation in all jurisdictions collect in part due to shared premises with other companies, serviced in which we operate and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
It has therefore been decided not to collect this additional information, from the perspective both of cost benefit and of our Business units are required to comply with Group policy and limited ability to collect accurate data, particularly with respect to the local statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their own shared premises.
An annual environmental questionnaire is completed by each business unit which highlights their We do not deem the impact of commercial vehicle emissions to be environmental performance.
material to our overall operations.
These vehicles often consolidate HellermannTyton shipments with goods for other customers of the Our manufacturing sites worldwide operate ISO9001 quality and freight companies and there would be nopractical or meaningful or ISO14001 accredited environmental management systems.
way to allocate the carbon usage of these providers to our product.
ISO14001 requires organisations to implement policies designed to mitigate their environmental impact.
In addition, most of our sales We have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Accounting and and distribution locations worldwide have achieved ISO9001 and Reporting Standard and emissions factors from the UK Government or ISO14001 accreditation.
However, a small number of smaller sales Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors 2014. locations are still to obtain this accreditation.
1 2014 2013 A large proportion of our products are designed and manufactured Tonnes equivalent to take account of the recycling and disposal of the product at the carbondioxide CO2e end of its life cycle, with more than 90% of our finished plastic Business mileage for all 1,691 1,681 components being suitable for material recycling.
Our businesses travel by car comply where applicable with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Electricity and gas usage 42,940 30,765 Equipment Regulations and The Restriction of the Use of Certain Total gross emissions 44,631 32,446 Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2012.
Intensity measurement Pieces produced 20,186,389,353 13,086,479,967 The environmental performance of the Group continues to improve, 2 Tonnes CO per million 2.22 2.48 with business units meeting goals for reducing energy consumption, itemsproduced reducing waste and greater recycling.
There are programmes in place aimed at reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill by increasing the volume of recycling, including recycling materials during our manufacturing processes.
Group performance and risk exposure reviews are undertaken in parallel with those for health and safety as described above.
The scope was increased in 2014 by including Brazil, France, South Africa and China.
