Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 COMMITTEE REPORTS Compliance, Responsibility andEthics Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholder The Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee CREC has now been established for four years and I have been particularly pleased with the progress we have made over this period and the commitment of everyone in the Hikma Group to our efforts in the anti-bribery and anti-corruption ABC compliance and corporate responsibility CR programme.
It has been a year in which a number of companies have faced serious ABC issues.
From the Committees perspective, this highlights the importance of our ABC programme and that Hikma must continue to be ever vigilant.
I am confident that Hikma has excellent people with the right values in all the jurisdictions in which we operate and that we clearly communicate the Boards commitment to business integrity to all our people.
We know it is important to keep communicating those values and to check that our people are doing what COMPLIANCE, RESPONSIBILITY Hikma believes they are.
AND ETHICS REPORT I would like to thank Dr Othman Abu Gheida who took over the Chief Compliance Officer CCO role in 2013, the training and implementation of our ABC policies and procedures, 86 Letter from the Chairman and resourced the Compliance Department during 2014.
Thanks to Dr Othman, all of our 87 Our Highlights management circa 2,200 people across the US, MENA and EU have received training on 87 Membership and Attendance ABC and our Code of Conduct and these members of management are now in the process 88 Responsibilities of training their people.
As a specialist in training and communication, he was invaluable over 88 Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption the past year.
ABC I am pleased to welcome Mr Waleed Hamam as the new CCO.
Waleed has been working 88 ABC Strategy and Resources with Hikma for 24 years and has significant operational experience leading different markets 88 ABC Architecture across MENA: including Jordan, KSA, Tunisia and Sudan.
Waleed is the right person to fully 89 ABC Risk Assessment implement our ABC procedures in each jurisdiction, delivering the medium-term ABC strategy 89 Code of Conduct that was set by the Committee during the year.
Waleed is supported by local compliance 89 ABC Policies and Procedures departments in each of our major operational jurisdictions and local representatives at the 89 Training smaller sites.
89 Speak-up In December 2014, we welcomed Dr Pamela Kirby as a new member of the 89 Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Dr Kirby has led the development and oversight of ABC programmes for major pharmaceutical corporations: as such, she is an important addition to the Committee and has already demonstrated her ability to add value.
I would like to thank Robert Pickering for his excellent contribution to the Committee, he has now moved on to focus on his role asSeniorIndependent Director.
As an organisation Hikma is committed to clear and open communication.
I remain open to discussion with shareholders should there be any concerns that they wish to raise directly.
Dr Ronald Goode, Chairman of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee 86 Corporate governance OUR HIGHLIGHTS MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE f The setting of a medium-term ABC strategy, with specific and ambitious The Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee CREC targets for the Compliance Department that are being monitored consists of five members.
Four are Independent Non-Executive bytheCommittee Directors: Dr Ronald Goode Committee Chairman, Breffni Byrne, f Significant increases in compliance resources, to ensure that there Pat Butler and Dr Pamela Kirby.
The fifth member is the Executive is a dedicated person in each of our major markets and a strengthened Vice Chairman, Mazen Darwazah.
Robert Pickering served on the central team Committee during the year, but has recently stepped down due f Circa 600 of our senior people, comprising all managers at all the to the changes in his role.
The CREC met six times during the year, majorfacilities of the Company, have received direct training on ABC, andfull attendance was achieved.
As the CREC is not a committee including how to train their subordinates.
As a result, a further mandated by the Code, its membership is not subject to published 1,600ofour people mostly supervisors have received training requirements.
However, Hikma believes that the requisite challenge fromtheir managers to operational effectiveness is achieved by having an Independent f The Compliance Department being fully involved in the assessment Non-Executive Director membership majority.
The Chairmanship ofABC aspects of Hikmas M&A and business development activities of the CREC is held by an Independent Non-Executive Director, f Full disclosure of GHG greenhouse gas emissions across all our sites Dr Ronald Goode, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee is a standing member.
Within the Company, the Executive Vice f Being one of the first companies in Jordan to be awarded a smoke Chairman champions Hikmas anti-bribery and corruption ABC freeworkplace certificate by the King Hussein Cancer Centre and corporate responsibility CR programmes.
f The successful launch of the first phase of the Hikma health app Meeting whichprovides patient support through a symptom checker and Members Member since Attended Potential attendance amedical organiser Dr Ronald Goode Chairman 1 November 2010 6 6 100% f Benchmarking of our corporate responsibility practices to ensure Mazen Darwazah 1 November 2010 6 6 100% HikmaCR strategy is competitive with industry peers Breffni Byrne 1 November 2010 6 6 100% ALLOCATION OF COMMITTEES TIME Pat Butler 1 April 2014 5 5 100% 1.
Policies 23% Dr Pamela Kirby 1 December 2014 1 1 100% 1 Robert Pickering 1 September 2011 1 1 100% 5 2.
CSR INTERNAL ADVISERS EXTERNAL ADVISERS 20% 5.
Corporate governance 14% f Chief Compliance Officer f PwC 4 f Company Secretary f Ernst and Young f VP for Corporate Communications 3 f General Counsel f Group Compliance Officer 87 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 COMMITTEE REPORTS COMPLIANCE, RESPONSIBILITY AND ETHICS continued Responsibilities ABC Architecture The CREC sets the overall strategy for the Groups response to bribery and corruption risks and is responsible for approving the Board contents of all of Hikmas policies in areas where ethical judgements are important.
The CREC oversees the Groups ABC compliance CREC programme, policies on ethics and business conduct and the development of the Code of Conduct the Code.
The CREC also Chief Compliance oversees Hikmas speak-up process for employees to raise ethical officer concerns, and, where relevant, oversees their investigation.
The CREC reviews and monitors policy in the area of CR at Board level and is Branded Injectables US & Generics Group Division Division Division Compliance supported in this work by the CR Committee.
The CRECs terms of Champion Champion Champion Manager reference are reviewed by the Boardon a regular basis.
The terms of reference are available ontheHikma website and by contacting Divisional Divisional Divisional Group Ofcers Ofcers Ofcers Ofcers investors@hikma.
Hikma has created a new framework that sets out the structure Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption ABC of leadership, delegated authority and ownership for the ABC Mr Samih Darwazah, the founder of Hikma, chose wisdom compliance programme.
Operational responsibility and oversight Hikmain Arabic and quality as the founding principles of the forABC is assigned by the Board to the Executive Vice Chairman, organisation.
Integrity and doing the right thing are at the heart of who then delegates responsibility to his management team.
Since its foundation Hikma has and continues to be The CCOreports directly to the CREC on ABC matters affecting all committed to the highest standards of integrity and ethics in the the jurisdictions in which Hikma operates.
The CCOs leadership of conduct of its business.
Hikma has communicated its zero tolerance ABC issues is overseen by the CREC Chairman and the Executive Vice of bribery and corruption to its employees and made sure that they Chairman.
The head of each business division has taken responsibility are aware that Hikma will not penalise any individual for complying to be the compliance champion for their division: with the principles enshrined in the Code or in the ABC policies, evenat the cost of forgoing a business opportunity, losing revenue f Mazen Darwazah Branded orprofit or disobeying a superiors instructions.
Hikma disciplines f Riad Mechlaoui Injectables staff for any ethical breaches of its standards of integrity.
f Michael Raya US and Generics ABC Strategy and Resources The CCO is supported by Group and regional compliance officers During the year, the Compliance Department developed a mediumat the operational level.
The legal, financial and company secretarial term global strategy for the delivery of the CRECs commitment to departments also advise and provide implementation support business integrity and ABC.
The CREC Chairman was fully involved to the Compliance Department.
This new structure better aligns in the strategy development process with internal and external the ownership of good ABC behaviours with the day-to-day advisers.
Following the review and approval of the strategy by the business operations.
CREC, the department re-assessed resource requirements to deliver the KPIs and requested a significant increase in resources.
The CREC requested further resources from the Board and was pleased that the proposal was fully supported without amendment.
88 Corporate governance ABC Risk Assessment Training During 2011 and 2012, Hikma undertook a full and global ABC Hikmas policies have been developed in conjunction with its risk assessment.
This was performed by the Good Corporation, on-going focus on education and dissemination of ABC compliance an independent body who have specialised in business ethics and information across the business.
Hikmas employee induction integrity for over a decade.
Good Corporation visited each of our programmes ensure that each new employee can clearly understand major areas of operation to perform this risk assessment.
The process the Groups ethical expectations.
In addition, increasing awareness was overseen at a group level and each site by the General Counsel has been built within the business for the processes and issues of and the Chairman of the CREC.
ABC compliance, with awareness sessions given to functional and The conclusion from the exercise was that Hikma has a strong geographical teams across the Group.
ethical culture that is deeply embedded within its operations.
In orderto support that culture, process enhancements were Speak-up identified which the Compliance Department are addressing Hikma has an open-door policy regarding communication so that aspartof the medium-term ABC strategy.
it can hear from those who have any questions or concerns about the ethics and integrity of the business.
Where employees believe Code of Conduct that it is not possible or appropriate to report to line management, Following on from the risk assessment, the existing Group Code they may make reports confidentially to any senior manager of Conduct was fully reviewed and approved by the CREC and the within the business.
Additionally, Hikma has anonymous web and Board.
Hikma benchmarked the Code against good industry practice telephone reporting lines in place across all operations, which and a peer group of international companies.
Hikma also undertook report directly tothe Compliance Department, VP of Corporate a full internal consultation, encompassing a broad cross-section of HR and the GeneralCounsel.
All speak-up items are reported to management and benefited from the input of an external compliance the CREC.
As part of their commitment to the Code employees consultant.
Further enhancements have been made during each understand that they have a duty to report any suspected violations.
The Code has now been translated intothe major Hikma investigates all reports of non-compliance and takes functional languages of Hikma: Arabic, English, French, German, appropriate action.
Each year all Hikma employees are required to confirm that they have read the Code, have understood Corporate Responsibility it and will abide by its terms.
Employees also confirm in writing that The Executive Vice Chairman is the champion of Hikmas CR they understand their obligations to report events of suspected programme within the Company and is Chairman of Hikmas CR non-compliance with Code.
The training plan for the Code includes Committee.
The VP of Communications is responsible for CR at an face-to-face training for top managers, training and discussion operational level.
The CREC Chairman, Director of Communications, sessions at department level for employees and lower management.
divisional and functional heads and Company Secretary are members The Code is available on our website: www.
com en corporateof the CR Committee.
The CR Committee reviews, supports responsibility code-of-conduct.
and promotes Hikmas CR activities and reports directly to the CREC.
The CR team, led by the VP of Communications, regularly ABC Policies and Procedures presents developments to the CREC.
Please see pages 44 to 52 In response to points highlighted in the risk assessment exercise, fortheGroups corporate responsibility report.
Hikma created a full set of ABC policies during 2012 and 2013.
The policies were fully reviewed by external advisers and internal For and on behalf of the Compliance, Responsibility and management.
The final policies were approved by the CREC in Ethics Committee late 2013.
These policies were developed into procedures and the Ronald Goode, CREC Chairman compliance strategy set out the delivery of implementation of those 11 March 2015 policies and worked commenced on local implementation in the MENA, EU and US.
The target is for the process to be substantially complete by the end of 2015, with testing, monitoring and enhancing thereafter.
