Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 SUSTAINABILITY continued The GMC will support the Executive Broadening our Promoting good Committee in implementing and monitoring economic contribution the Groups strategic plan.
business ethics In 2014, we continued to invest in Why this is important maintaining, upgrading and expanding Why this is important our facilities to support future growth.
Hikmas business model of developing strong Since Hikmas inception, it has been We invested a total of $91 million across local businesses in each of our markets embedded in our culture to promote our multiple locations.
This investment is ensures that we bring significant economic good business ethics across our businesses strengthening our businesses, improving the benefits to the countries in which we and geographies.
We believe that a solid quality of our products and ensuring that our operate.
The investments we make to recruit reputation for ethical values such as integrity facilities are capable of meeting the growth in and train a skilled local workforce, build and honesty in how we conduct our business demand for our products.
In MENA, the key local manufacturing facilities and transfer are vital to our companys reputation and investment projects were in Sudan and Egypt.
technology and knowledge between our success.
Hikma has a zero tolerance policy for In Sudan, we invested $7 million in 2014 different geographies help to grow successful bribery and corruption and does not conduct to upgrade the local facility we purchased local businesses, while at the same time business with any company that fails to meet in 2011 to be compliant with current contributing to the sustainable growth of the its standards.
local pharmaceutical markets and economies What were doing Once completed, this plant will significantly where we operate.
Our Code of Conduct was reviewed, updated increase the number of products we are able What were doing and approved for 2014.
The Code has now to supply to the Sudanese market and will Within Hikma, we believe that our employees been translated into seven languages to enable us to export to our other markets are our most important and valuable asset.
support Hikmas broad operating footprint: in the region.
In Egypt, we completed the Hikma now employs around 7,250 people Arabic, English, French, German, Portuguese, build of a state-of-the-art finished product in over 45 countries.
Across the Group, Russian and Slovakian.
warehouse which can accommodate 3,200 we continuously invest in our employee In 2014, we renewed our membership pallets and completed the renovation of benefits, including providing quality of the United Nations Global Compact the packaging area.
These investments healthcare, supporting personal growth UNGC for the seventh consecutive year.
will increase the annual production output through training, and consistent reviews of This required Hikma to demonstrate that ofourEgyptian plant.
In 2014, its strategies and operations continue to be Since entering the field of oncology, we spent around $338 million on salaries and aligned with the ten principles of the UNGC Hikma has invested more than $50 million in employee benefits across our businesses.
across four key ethical areas, in all of our developing capabilities for the manufacturing We ensure that we enhance the skills locations.
This year we focused on raising of oncology products.
These investments and capabilities of all our employees through internal awareness and further educating include the acquisition of Thymoorgan in training and we are also continuously employees about the importance of human Germany, the joint venture with Haosun in identifying and developing future managers rights, labour laws, the environment and China and the recent establishment of the across our businesses.
new oncology chemicals plant in Jordan.
continued with our middle management Across the Group this year, we placed This plant has been designed and built to training programme in co-operation with a strong emphasis on increasing awareness meet local and international regulatory the American University of Beirut AUB.
of our employees rights by educating requirements and operates under strict The programme focused on various topics them on the available policies and schemes safety regulations.
such as strategic thinking, change and associated with potential claims and benefits.
We have strengthened our global innovation management, developing and Several labour unions were established and footprint in the Injectables business with the empowering people, decision making and developed across the Groups geographies, recent installation of the pre-filled syringe leadership.
Additionally, Hikma organised a enhancing communication channels between line in the US, thus offering patients access mass training programme for its managers these unions and employees to ensure to more innovative products.
In 2014, we in Jordan on Efficient Meetings Training, transparency and fairness.
completed the acquisition of Bedford and the which addressed crucial steps in planning Ben Venue manufacturing facility.
The Ben and conducting business meetings.
As part Venue site has a state-of-the-art QDC which of this initiative, we established a Global will significantly strengthen our existing R&D Management Committee in 2014, comprising capabilities and support the development senior managers from across our three ofa strong product pipeline.
businesses and key corporate functions.
48 Strategic report STRATEGIC PRIORITY INVESTING IN CONTINUOUS EXPANSION ACROSS OUR GLOBAL MARKETS In 2014, we invested around $91 million of capital expenditure across our global markets.
Our continuous investment to maintain, expand and upgrade our manufacturing plants across the MENA, Europe and US will support sustainable long-term growth and benefit the markets in which we are located.
By expanding our geographic reach we are providing access to affordable medicines foragreaternumberof patients Over the past few years, Hikma has operated 3 Transparency: being accountable and open a web-based compliance reporting system 3 Quality: maintaining best-in-class called Speak-Up through which employees manufacturing standards can voice their concerns in a confidential Anti-bribery and anti-corruption training manner.
Hikma has an open door policy in In 2014, all managers in all Hikma locations regards to communication with its employees underwent face-to-face roll-out training and when employees are seeking a more sessions on compliance and conduct, with discrete or anonymous method of reporting, over 600 managers receiving the training.
they can use the Speak-Upsystem.
After completing the training courses, the Hikma has previously installed managers in turn trained their teams and anonymous reporting platforms across the support staff, with over 1,600 employees US and European operations, and in 2014 receiving the training from their managers.
Hikma introduced a web-reporting system for The Sales and Marketing session covered the the MENA region.
All Speak-Up reports are policy for gifts, hospitality and entertainment received by the compliance team, the VP of as well as interaction with healthcare Corporate HR as well as the General Counsel.
The training sessions Hikmas corporate values covered the following: 3 Code of Conduct 3 Integrity: acting honestly and truthfully 3 Drive for Excellence: achieving the 3 Compliance Overview 3 Sales and Marketing Policy highest standards 3 Respect: recognising differences, 3 Speak-Up 3 Conflict of Interest needsand expectations 49
