Strategic report We believe that investing in our employees After successfully passing the audit, our site Minimising our wellbeing and happiness is the key to in Amman is now the first Jordanian site to building a successful and sustainable environmental impact achieve such certification and among the business.
Since its founding, Hikma has first in the MENA region.
This achievement strived to ensure a positive and healthy work Why this is important will help improve our management and environment.
In 2014, our annual employee consumption of energy.
Our role as a healthcare provider is not welfare week, You are Hikma, was held West-Ward Pharmaceuticals received the limited to providing medications for patients.
The campaign Environmental Stewardship Award from the We recognise that the environment that reflects Hikmas dedication to improving New Jersey Department of Environmental people live in is as much a part of our care the quality of life of its employees through Protection for taking voluntary and proactive as is treating illness.
As a pharmaceutical personal empowerment, encouraging steps that exceeded compliance guidelines.
manufacturing company, we take an corporate citizenship and improving These included installing light sensors in active role towards limiting our impact on wellbeing through educational activities.
warehouses and offices to reduce energy the various elements of the environment The focus of this years campaign was on costs and energy consumption.
Moreover, including GHG emissions, water and health and safety and the environment.
new raw material purchasing systems were energy use.
Through closely monitoring, Over 500 employees participated in activities, installed to mitigate the environmental reporting and improving our operations, we including medical testing, blood donations impact of extraction, processing and follow a systematic approach that ensures and awareness lectures on topics such transportation of raw materials to help the sustainability of our business and the as work-related injuries and the safe use minimise West-Wards carbon footprint.
continued health of our communities.
Hikma signed a service agreement with What were doing In 1994, Hikma officially enforced a Credit 360, a global sustainability software Across the Group we are conscious of our smoke-free policy across all of its premises.
This was an important step for us global footprint and are continuously assessing Since then, Hikma has expanded its initiatives as it facilitates the move to the next level in ways to minimise our environmental impact.
in fighting tobacco use by holding several our data gathering capabilities in order to We promote good practices of responsible sessions for companies located in Jordan collect and process complex and important useof energy and electricity consumption.
about the hazards of smoking, offering information across the Group.
As part of our reporting practices, we practical guidance for corporations on how to have been actively committed to the Carbon become smoke-free and on how to expand Disclosure Project CDP, which provides their smoke-free experience beyond their valuable insight into our greenhouse gas workplace.
In June 2014, Hikma was awarded emissions and climate change strategy.
the Smoke-free Zone Certificate by the King The CDP holds the largest collection globally Hussein Cancer Center and Foundation for its of climate change data and aims to use the efforts in implementing a strict anti-smoking power of information disclosure to improve policy in all of its premises, cafeterias, vehicles the management of environmental risk.
This year, Hikma scored 82 B in the rating of healthcare sector responding companies in the CDP 2013 report, a great improvement over our previous scores.
51 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 SUSTAINABILITY continued Greenhouse gas inventory This section has been prepared in accordance In order to improve monitoring and Category 2014 2013 with our regulatory obligation to report management of our carbon impact, Scope 1 Combustion of fuel greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to wehave also begun to implement a global andoperation of facilities tCO2e 18,931 20,831 Section 7 of The Companies Act 2006 sustainability data programme during tCO2e per FTE employee 3.42 3.76 Strategic Report and Directors Report 2014.
This has improved oversight around Scope 2 Electricity purchased Regulations 2013. our energy consumption and increased forour own use tCO2 58,435 51,424 During the year ended 31 December the quality and availability of performance tCO2 per FTE employee 10.56 9.29 2014, Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC emitted information for decision making.
18,931 tCO e from the combustion of fuel 2 Reporting boundaries and exclusions Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 direct and 58,435 tCO from 2 Segment tCO2e tCO2 We consolidate our organisational electricity purchased for our own use Scope MENA 8,182 39,212 boundary according to the operational 2 indirect.
This is equal to 3.42 tCO e per 2 US 6,525 13,582 control approach and have adopted a full-time equivalent FTE employee and Europe 4,224 5,640 materiality threshold of 10% for GHG 10.56 tCO per FTE employee respectively.
This approach includes Compared with 2013, our total all Hikmasubsidiaries and corresponding Scope 1 emissions have decreased almost Reporting boundaries and exclusions facilities assets.
This is due to greater awareness of Category GHG source 2014 disclosure JVs with a less than 50% holding have our climate change impact as a result of Scope 1 Facility diesel Included been excluded from our GHG disclosure as it direct combustion improved measurement and monitoring of is considered that we do not have operational organisational greenhouse gases since last Facility natural Included control over these emission sources.
Emissions from Scope2 electricity usage In addition, non-manufacturing facilities with Facility LPG Included increased 13%, largely due to increased less than 100 staff at the end of the reporting combustion production at certain sites, including Algeria period are not included within our emissions Vehicle fuel Included and Eatontown, New Jersey.
disclosure on the grounds of materiality.
combustion Methodology Emissions from our Morocco and Sudan Fugitive emissions Included from RAC We quantify and report our organisational locations are excluded due to an absence equipment greenhouse gas emissions according to the ofavailable data.
Facility Excluded, Defra Environmental Reporting Guidelines The GHG sources that constitute our wastewater duetodata 2013 and have utilised the UK Government operational boundary for the 2014 reporting treatment collection issues 2014 Conversion Factors for Company period are as follows: Scope 2 Purchased Included Reporting in order to calculate emissions 3 Scope 1: Facility diesel combustion, facility indirect electricity for own from corresponding activity data.
Results are natural gas combustion, facility LPG consumption reported in tCO e for Scope 1 emissions combustion, fugitive refrigerants from 2 and tCO2 for Scope 2 emissions, as UK air-conditioning equipment and vehicle Government emission factors for overseas fuel combustion electricity currently account for carbon 3 Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption dioxide emissions only.
for our own use Assumptions and estimations In some cases, missing information has been estimated using data from the nearest reporting period as a proxy.
Furthermore, due to the inclusion of additional emission sources this year, we have decided to restate last years emissions figures.
This allows us to make a more accurate performance comparison between 2013 and 2014.
