Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 SUSTAINABILITY continued In 2014, we provided internship roles for STRATEGIC PRIORITY Supporting people students across a number of our businesses, andcommunities including Jordan, the UK and Germany, RAISING BREAST enabling these individuals to gain practical CANCER AWARENESS Why this is important and relevant experience for their future career goals.
We regularly partner with entities that Our focus at Hikma is on improving lives, In 2014, we organised a breast cancer campaign to invest in educating young people across the not just through the products we sell, but by support cancer patients in Jordan.
Our employees globe and in 2014 we supported a pan-Arab investing in our people and by advancing and hosted cancer survivors to speak at an awareness discussion about their personal experiences and initiative to offer a not-for-profit platform building communities through developing how to deal with the disease in a positive and for massive open online courses MOOCs and investing in the healthcare sectors across healthy manner.
The discussion was also directed from Harvard, MIT and UC Berkeley.
We support our global towards the family members of patients with the support for such initiatives will help to ensure team of around 7,250 employees and their disease to help them in providing patient support that the Arab world is at the forefront of families and seek to instil in them a spirit of educational innovation.
responsibility and altruism to benefit their To encourage our people to be active communities.
We also work directly with members of their communities and to organisations in the communities where we instil the spirit of volunteerism, Hikma held are located through corporate responsibility its annual global volunteering day across events and medical donations, with a focus the Group in 2014.
The activities varied on initiatives related to education and across our global markets.
A positive and healthy relationship inJordan, we partnered in an Earth Hour between our people and our communities campaign to raise awareness for climate results in a synergy that ensures the change alongside participants in over sustainability of our business.
Employees also volunteered What were doing in the preparation and distribution of food Over the years, Hikma has found that raising packages for over 250 underprivileged community awareness about health issues families consisting of more than 2,000family has had a significant impact.
In Tunisia, our employees through to 2015, Hikma committed to volunteered in the renovation of school supporting the Jordanian Royal Health classrooms in a rural village near our Society RHAS through establishing Healthy manufacturing plant and in Algeria, our Community Clinics in two comprehensive employees volunteered in a Clean up the health centres in Jordan to provide medical Environment Campaign, participating in attention and promote preventative measures various activities in the neighbourhood of our to patients suffering from chronic diseases.
In Portugal, our employees hosted The patients are offered a special diet, an educational event for children in foster physical activity training and awareness homes.
In New Jersey, US, our employees sessions on related diseases, alongside collected a significant amount of clothing continuous follow-up on the progression andraised funds which were matched by oftheir treatment programme.
Proceeds went Hikma believes in the promotion to the Lanoka Harbor Emergency Medical of education across the region as a key Services to help with repairs and damages sustainability priority.
Across our businesses caused by Hurricane Sandy.
we work closely with local schools and universities and we offer internship placements in a number of our markets.
