Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements The UK reported 79 accidents this year, During the year, we worked with Makita down from 109 in FY13 and improving on UK to develop the worlds first 4 stroke disk the previous lowest number of reported cutter for use by our plumbing and drainage incidents: 89 accidents in FY10.
This revolutionary design has causes of accidents were slips and manual a 20% reduction in fuel consumption over handling, which were also the top two a conventional 2 stroke engine disk cutter.
causes of accidents across UK industry as There is a significant reduction in accidental a whole.
engine damage, accidental spillages when mixing the fuel together and emissions.
The USA reported 23 accidents this year, down from 34 in FY13.
The top two causes Throughout the year we gave our customers of accidents were manual handling followed tips and hints on how they could reduce by slips.
costs whilst reducing their impact on the environment.
These have been sent The French and Spanish business reported electronically or using social media to reduce only commuting accidents.
Environment UK waste reduction We continue to take our environmental We have worked hard to ensure that recycling responsibilities seriously and recognise that levels remain high.
The volume of waste sustainable and responsible performance produced in our network has increased by is important to the future growth of our 48% but 94% of our waste is recycled with business.
only 6% being sent to landfill.
Performance Carbon Footprint During the year there were no regulatory The formal disclosure in respect of our carbon interventions anywhere in the Group and we footprint is included in the Directors Report.
have implemented energy saving initiatives in the UK that have resulted in a reduction We have had our global direct and indirect in electricity consumption of 10%.
At our greenhouse gas emissions externally main UK call centre we have made a 45% audited using Defra emission factors.
It reduction in gas consumption.
should be noted that fugitive emissions from office air-conditioning are not included.
This We have installed a new telemetric system makes up a very small proportion of our data in our UK commercial fleet that enables us but work is underway to include this in future to monitor the performance of our vehicles reporting.
more closely, including driver behaviour and miles per gallon.
The data collected helps us The carbon footprint for FY14 was improve the efficiency of our fleet.
11,150 tcO e. 2 HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 51
