STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 40 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AS AN INTERNATIONAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PROVIDER, HUNTING RELIES ON ITS REPUTATION WITHIN THE ENERGY INDUSTRY.
THE RELATIONSHIPS DEVELOPED WITH STAKEHOLDERS ARE CRITICAL TO OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS AND IN ORDER TO ENSURE THE CONTINUING GROWTH OF THE GROUP WE CONSTANTLY EVALUATE WAYS TO STRENGTHEN OUR LINKS WITH INVESTORS, CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS, EMPLOYEES, GOVERNMENTS AND THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH OUR BUSINESSES OPERATE.
The responsibility for building and maintaining our reputation with Investors stakeholders extends from the Board, to our executive management and Communicating the position, performance and future strategy with to those employees working at an operational level.
Hunting continues to the Groups shareholders is of key importance to the Board of Directors.
update and introduce policies on governance, ethics and business conduct.
Communications include press releases issued to the London Stock Exchange, industry analyst and institutional investor presentations and Further details on the Groups governance framework can be found within webcasts and interacting with shareholders at general meetings of the the Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 to 55.
Other communications include an in-house corporate publication, the Hunting Review, which is published twice a year.
The Board believes that the combined policies covering these areas continued to remain effective during the year.
The Board also believes that The Company is quoted on the London Stock Exchange and has a the policies in place covering other key areas such as human rights, bribery premium listing status, indicating its commitment to the UKs highest and corruption, sanctions and compliance with laws and regulations standards of regulation and corporate governance as published by the remained effective in the period.
The Company is also required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, UK Company Law and the laws and Code of Conduct regulations of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Through the Groups Code of Conduct Hunting has published the basis on which our employees interact with our customers and suppliers around the Customers and Suppliers world.
Our commitment to do business in an ethical and transparent way Huntings customers and suppliers are an integral part of the success of the enables Hunting to occupy a position of trust with our partners.
Developing our relationships with these partners is essential to our our established procedures, the Code of Conduct is sent to all major trading long-term growth.
The Hunting way of doing business is summarised in the partners around the world.
Code of Conduct, with openness and transparency being key components of our reputation with long-term business partners.
Human Rights Hunting is committed to upholding the Human Rights of all our Hunting PLC is a signatory to the UK governments Prompt Payment Code stakeholders and in 2014 published its global Human Rights Policy which and is committed to making timely payments to our suppliers, providing is incorporated within the Groups Code of Conduct.
This policy extends to: transparency and certainty to our business partners.
providing a safe working environment for all employees and In order to promote its standing within our industry sector, Group contractors: companies hold memberships with a variety of organisations including: respecting the rights of the individual with a zero tolerance to any American Petroleum Institute form of discrimination, harassment or bullying: Society of Petroleum Engineers providing training and development programmes to our global The International Coiled Tubing Association workforce: American Society for Quality not employing child labour: promoting good relationships with the communities in which we operate: operating in an environmentally responsible manner.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 Geographic split of employees year end actuals UK Rest of Europe 2014 424 2014 87 2013 400 2013 71 US Asia Pacic 694 2014 2,479 2014 785 2013 2,275 2013 Canada Other 2014 276 2014 43 2013 255 2013 35 Total 2013 restated following Gibson Shipbrokers being designated a 2014 4,003 discontinued operation.
2013 3,821 Employees Hunting believes that employing the right people is only the start of the Our people are our most valuable asset and the Group recognises that relationship between an employee and employer.
The Group seeks to its success and reputation depends upon their efforts, integrity and adhere to all relevant local and jurisdictional laws covering employment commitment.
Our people create Huntings competitive edge and ensure and minimum wage legislation.
As a responsible employer, full and fair that our customers expectations are met.
Responsibility for employees consideration is given to applications for positions from disabled persons lies with local management, which allows local cultural issues to be and to their training and career advancement.
Every effort is made to appropriately managed and the necessary development programmes to retain in employment those who become disabled while employed by be structured accordingly.
The demographic of our employees reflects the the Group.
global nature of the oil and gas industry and the geographic diversity of the Groups activities.
It is important for the Group to retain key employees and to recruit high quality candidates.
This remains a major challenge for the oil and gas At 31 December 2014, the Group had 4,003 employees 2013 3,821 with industry.
Hunting has cultivated a supportive environment that promotes the geographical split shown in the charts above.
development, learning and advancement to ensure that its employees realise their potential.
Long service is a feature of the Groups employment During 2014 Hunting opened a Regional Training Centre in Houston, Texas.
profile and recognition is given through service award programmes across This facility provides training to Huntings employees focusing on key the Group.
Thirty years service is not an uncommon attribute.
The Group manufacturing and operational skills developed by leading industry believes that providing additional benefits to staff encourages the best providers.
The facility is equipped with machine tooling and inspection performance from our people.
The majority of employees are offered resources ranging from manual to state-of-the-art computer controlled participation in schemes which provide healthcare and post-retirement equipment.
These resources represent a cross-section of equipment benefits and, in certain instances, participation in bonus arrangements commonly used at many of Huntings facilities.
While growing the skill sets when outperformance in terms of operational excellence has been of our front-line manufacturing personnel is a primary goal, the Regional achieved.
Hunting has share award schemes in place as a longer-term Training Centre provides a curriculum relevant to Huntings US employees.
incentive and to encourage employees to participate in the ownership The Regional Training Centre represents one of many programmes that of the Company.
Hunting utilises to maximise employee value and retention.
The Board has established whistleblowing procedures for any employee Hunting also operates ToolingU, an industry leading online manufacturing wishing to raise, in confidence, any concerns they may have about possible training platform.
ToolingU offers over 400 online courses covering a financial improprieties, or other matters, with the Chairman or Senior wide array of subjects for all levels of manufacturing personnel.
The Group also has in place an independent and are now over 2,200 active Hunting participants across the Groups US anonymous whistleblowing reporting service operated by Safecall Limited operations and over 8,000 online courses have been completed in the past with the contact details communicated to all employees.
In addition to job specific training, core modules comprising of four basic courses were created and assigned to US personnel.
These core modules emphasise Huntings values and include courses in Health, Safety and Quality Assurance.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 42 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED THE GROUP OPERATES FROM 43 PRINCIPAL MANUFACTURING FACILITIES AND ALL ARE COMMITTED TO ACHIEVING AND MAINTAINING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF SAFETY FOR ITS EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND THE PUBLIC.
Diversity The Group also makes donations to various UK charities through the Huntings diversity policy is detailed within the Corporate Governance Chairmans charitable trust committee, which comprises the Chairman and Report.
The Group seeks to ensure equal opportunities are given to its global former Hunting employees.
In 2014, assistance was granted to 38 charities.
workforce across the whole spectrum of diversity areas, including gender.
During 2014, the Group donated $0.4m 2013 $0.5m to charities.
The Groups gender balance is presented in the table below: Health and Safety Huntings Gender Balance The Group operates from 43 principal manufacturing facilities and 34 service and distribution points across the globe and all are committed to Total number of achieving and maintaining the highest standards of safety for its officers employees Males % Females % employees, customers, suppliers and the public.
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Hunting has a proven culture of aiming for best practice and employs Senior Management 130 152 94 91 6 9 rigorous health and safety practices.
Health and Safety policies include: Whole Workforce 4,003 3,821 82 82 18 18 Regular audit and maintenance reviews of facilities, equipment, 2013 restated practices and procedures to ensure compliance with prevailing standards and legislation and a safe environment for all those who Huntings senior management is defined as those employees who have work within and around our facilities.
influence in the daily running of the Groups major operational businesses Seeking accreditation and aligning long-standing Company and activities, including the number of persons who were directors of programmes and procedures to internationally recognised Quality subsidiary undertakings within the Group.
Monitoring, which is a management task, documented and reported During 2014, Huntings Board was made up of six male Directors.
the appointments announced on 2 February 2015, the Board now Appropriate training and education of all staff.
comprises six male Directors and one female Director.
A Group policy on health, safety and environmental matters, which can be found on the Companys website www.
Community Huntings responsibilities to the communities in which it operates extends Huntings Director of Health, Safety and Environment reports directly to on many fronts.
The Group participates in a number of initiatives and the Chief Executive and a report is considered by the Board of Directors events which raise money for charities and community projects around the at each meeting.
In 2014, many Hunting employees participated in local charitable events with associated corporate support.
The Groups target is to achieve zero recordable incidents.
Each local business is required to develop tailored policies to suit their environment.
The Hunting Art Prize is an annual event hosted in Houston which supports These incorporate the Groups approach to putting safety first and, at a local community organisations.
In 2014, Huntings chosen charity was minimum, to comply with local regulatory requirements.
Training is given Patriot PAWS Service Dogs.
Patriot is dedicated to training dogs to assist to every employee, throughout the Group.
disabled service veterans and others with mobile disabilities.
Patriot is also Huntings designated charity for 2015.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 In the ten years of hosting the Hunting Art Prize in the United States, $0.5m has been awarded in prize money and well over $1.0m raised in related charitable contributions.
Environment During the year, there were no fatalities across the Groups operations with The Group is committed to the protection of the environment and 81 recordable incidents 2013 63.
The incident rate, as calculated from developing manufacturing processes and procedures, which ensure that guidance issued by the Occupation Safety and Health Administration in the any adverse effects on the environment are kept to a minimum.
The industry average incident rate in 2014 was 5.3 2013 7.0.
The Groups environmental policy is to look for opportunities and adopt practices that create a safer and cleaner environment.
It is particularly Quality and Manufacturing Excellence sensitive to the challenges of the industry in which it operates.
The Group The Group is committed to enhancing its production and operational quality has programmes in place to monitor the environmental impact from its with a number of facilities being certified ISO 9001 quality, 14001 health operational activities and remains focused on ensuring environmental and safety and 18001 environmental compliant, indicating that globally consideration is at the forefront of its business practices.
recognised standards and systems are in place.
The table below presents the adoption of the ISO accreditations across the Groups manufacturing facilities: Key aspects of our environmental policies include: Raising awareness of the environment within the workplace through ISO Accreditation noticeboard communications.
Number of % of Encouraging the reduction of waste and emissions and promoting Facilities Manufacturing awareness of recycled materials and use of renewable resources.
Accredited Facilities Each operating unit developing and implementing their own ISO 9001 22 51% procedures while conducting regular reviews to ensure that they are ISO 14001 8 19% maintained and refined.
ISO 18001 3 7% Encouraging employees to pay special regard to environmental issues and requirements in the communities in which the Group operates.
Incorporating health, safety and environment considerations into the More facilities across the Group are working towards these accreditations, design of new facilities.
continuing the Groups commitment to monitoring and reducing the environmental impact of its operations and increasing HS&E standards.
The Group monitors and collects data relating to its greenhouse gas emissions from across its operations and submits data to the UKs Carbon Operational and production excellence is a key feature of our relationship Disclosure Project, and is complying with the UK governments Energy with customers, therefore quality assurance for each component Savings Opportunity Schemes requirements.
manufactured is a key indication of our drive to be an industry leading provider of critical components and measurement tools.
In compliance with UK environmental legislation, each business unit across the Group has reported Scope 1 and 2 emissions to provide a consolidated In 2014, the Group continued its programme to introduce lean total of each source of greenhouse gas emissions for the year ended 31 manufacturing processes into global operations.
This resulted in efficiency December 2014.
Scope 1 emissions result from direct sources such as fossil gains in a number of key business units.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions such as electricity consumed by a business.
The reporting basis for emissions has The Group continuously strives to gain leadership in areas of technology been presented on an operational control basis, with data collected on the relevant to the Groups products and at the year end had 355 active patents.
six greenhouse gases highlighted by the Kyoto Protocol.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED As well as fundraising for local Pictured here are Hunting causes, staff volunteer their time in employees assisting in an the community.
Total emissions are converted to a carbon dioxide equivalent figure, using 2014 has seen the Group continue to develop and enhance its relationships guidance and conversion factors detailed in the UK governments with all stakeholders with a commitment from all levels of the Group to Environmental Reporting Guidance as published by DEFRA deliver value for its partners in the long term.
The following table details Huntings Scope 1 and 2 emissions: Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions tonnes 2014 2013 % Change Dennis Proctor Peter Rose Scope 1 8,113 8,309 2.4 Chief Executive Finance Director Scope 2 34,059 33,544 1.5 5 March 2015 Total controlled emissions 42,172 41,853 0.8 The Group also collects mains water usage data and in 2014 consumed 290k cubic metres 2013 195k cubic metres of water.
The Groups emissions are primarily a function of the production activity within its operating facilities, therefore the Groups facilities square footage has been adopted as the basis of the intensity factor presented below: Intensity factor 2014 2013 % Change Total controlled emissions tonnes 42,172 41,853 0.8 Facilities footprint 000 square feet 2,806 2,763 1.6 Intensity Factor 15.0 15.1 0.7 Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 EMPLOYEE TRAINING HUNTINGS COMMITMENT TO THE EDUCATION OF ITS WORKFORCE HAS CONTINUED THROUGHOUT THE YEAR THROUGH THE GROUPS REGIONAL TRAINING CENTRES, LOCATED IN THE US AND SINGAPORE.
STAFF DEVELOPMENT INCLUDES COURSES ON QUALITY ASSURANCE, HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE MATTERS.
Technical development is also encouraged through the Groups use of the ToolingU online training portal, to which many of Huntings US employees have been assigned modules to complete.
The Group is committed to strong ethical standards and global compliance, with all employees required to review Huntings Code of Conduct as part of the Companys induction programmes.
Each role within the Company is assigned a risk status for Anti-Bribery and Corruption compliance purposes and those employees in higher risk roles are required to complete training on the Groups anti-bribery compliance procedures and the legislation which promotes transparent commercial dealings.
Hunting has trained relevant employees and developed its procedures in the area of sanctions compliance and in the year held sessions which enabled each Group business to address export compliance procedures pertinent to its international sales reach.
Training includes use of web-based sessions enabling employees around the world to access online training.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts
