24 IMI plc Corporate Responsibility Our approach Our ambition is for IMI to become a world-class business and the leader in its chosen sectors a truly great company that we can all be proud of both for its business and the way we conduct our business.
And by great we mean a company that thinks longterm, delivers profitable sustainable growth, invests in its future, is preferred by all stakeholders including employees, customers and investors and at all times behaves responsibly.
At the heart of our approach to making IMI a great company is Members of the IMI CCI RSM team with Carol Gamble, Mayor of Rancho Santa Margarita, collecting their award.
The IMI Way which sets out our values - excellence, innovation, integrity and collaboration - and embraces all our activities.
It covers the products and services we provide to customers, our innovation and continuous improvement programmes and Health & Safety the ongoing development of our people.
It also addresses all The health and safety of our employees is paramount.
We also have a duty to protect aspects of the way we do business and the impact we have on other stakeholders, including our customers, the environment and the communities we operate within.
visitors and suppliers, who may be affected by what we do and the surroundings in Mark Selway which we operate.
Chief Executive During the year we made excellent progress towards achieving world-class health and safety performance for all operations.
In Our vision particular the lost time accident rate was further reduced by 15%.
Throughout 2014 over 100,000 hours were devoted to HS&E training.
Engineering GREAT Across the Group, our divisional HS&E teams continued to drive ongoing improvements by focusing on root-cause investigations of nearEngineering GREAT means taking whats good misses as well as accidents.
A key component of this work is the sharing of ideas and at IMI and transforming it into something experience around the Group.
Following every brilliant, life-changing, long-lasting and lost time accident, a safety alert is circulated world-class.
to all HS&E teams so they can learn from it and avoid similar events at their sites.
Our purpose In 2014, after a rigorous process we were delighted that one of our facilities was recognised for its work in this area.
IMI CCI RSM RSM in the USA received the California Voluntary Protection Programme Cal VPP We deliver GREAT solutions for our customers Star designation.
RSM is one of only four tackling the worlds most demanding valve manufacturers in the USA to receive this recognition, which is the highest bestowed engineering challenges.
by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA.
Our mindset The award recognises both employers and employees for implementing health and safety programmes that go beyond minimal standards and provide the best protection Engineering GREAT together against occupational hazards.
RSM is now considered a leader in their industry and is exempt from Cal OSHA programmed inspections.
Motivating values: Integrity Excellence Innovation Collaboration Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 IMI is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and we report our climate change data to the Investor CDP programme, including the Supply Chain CDP to encourage action on climate change from our key suppliers.
FTSE4Good has again recognised our performance across environmental, social and economic sustainability criteria by continuing to include us in its Index.
IMI Hydronic Engineering has installed its newest and Our Code of Conduct is a crucial component of The IMI The Precision Engineering team in France collected most efficient balancing & control solution into the ALMA Way - we must always behave responsibly and ethically.
200kg of litter and debris from a National Forest in the Hospital, Eelko in Belgium, which will help the customer vicinity of their manufacturing site.
to meet their efficiency targets.
Environment Business integrity & ethics Community Our technologies are helping our customers Our Code of Conduct the Code sets out We have a significant presence around the respond to a number of global environmental the standards we expect everyone in the world and in addition to benefits from creating challenges, including climate change, Group to comply with and covers a number jobs and investment we believe we should resource scarcity and urbanisation.
In our of areas including workplace conduct, antidirectly contribute through relevant charitable own day-to-day business operations, we are bribery and anti-corruption and fair market and educational community programmes.
committed to minimising the environmental competition.
The Code is reviewed annually In addition to the Group charitable donations impact of our business operations and and in 2014 amendments have been made policy, where we support a range of becoming more energy efficient.
to bring the language in line with the current national and international causes, some of expression of the Groups purpose and our business units have relationships with We operate a Group-wide energy efficiency values.
All employees are given annual facecharities that are local to their operating sites.
programme, Project 20:20, that was launched to-face refresher training on the Code and the in 2011 and covers 20 of our largest energy In the Czech Republic, colleagues from importance of ethical behaviour.
The Code is using sites, which together account for more IMI CCI Brno were nominated for a national supported by more specific policy and training than 70% of our overall energy consumption.
award by the Kocinka Center who they have and implementation programmes on the areas To date, Project 20:20 has identified over 100 had a relationship with for a number of years.
best practice emissions reduction projects, The nomination was in appreciation of the which are now being rolled out across this Our whistleblowing policy encourages relationship between the Center and group.
Projects in 2014 included right-sizing employees to speak up through line employees who have not only given and modernisation of a ventilation system management and our HR teams when they donations, but also their time to help this saving some 18 tonnes of CO at our IMI see conduct that does not accord with the worthwhile organisation, which helps prepare 2 Precision site in Farmington, USA.
Where normal channels may not be children and adolescents with physical or enhanced the use of local hydro-electric appropriate we provide a confidential, learning difficulties for mainstream schools power at IMI Hydronic Engineering in Sweden independently operated reporting hotline and jobs.
and this is providing us with 300,000 kWh of in more than 20 languages which enables In addition to programmes which run electricity per annum.
Collectively, the energy employees to raise issues anonymously.
throughout the year, on one dedicated day efficiency initiatives completed in 2014 will Our Ethics and Compliance Committee each year The IMI Way Day all of our provide savings of around 800 tonnes of meets monthly to review hotline reports employees spend time engaged in activities CO e per annum.
and is chaired by Geoff Tranfield, Group 2 to benefit their local community.
During 2014, All this work has delivered some tremendous activities included employees collecting 103 cases were reported which is down savings.
Our 2014 gross CO e emissions donations for food banks, renovating a local 2 from the previous year 2013: 116 cases.
have reduced by 9% to 62,500 tonnes play area used by disadvantaged children, compared with the previous year 2013: We also operate a supplier evaluation process painting and clearing out a community centre 69,000 tonnes.
Of this amount 43,000 which assesses our suppliers to ensure that used by the elderly, volunteering at local tonnes resulted from the purchase of they comply with the provisions contained hospices, and raising money for a school electricity, heat, steam or cooling by IMI within the Code and our Supply Chain Policy.
Our normalised In 2014, 80 supplier audits took place.
performance has improved from 39.6 to 37.4 tonnes per million sales from 2013 to 2014, which is a 6% reduction.
This is very encouraging as we move into the final year of our three-year target period that is seeking at least 7.5% reduction compared to 2012.
For further information please refer to page 142 of the Directors Report.
com  26 IMI plc Corporate Responsibility Our people Our performance and the success of our businesses rely heavily Diversity and inclusion on our employees, who are one of our key assets.
To ensure that We aim to recruit the very best people to help us deliver our we harness IMIs full potential we must recruit the best people strategic objectives and to reflect who have excellent relevant skills and provide them with a the diverse global footprint of our working environment within which they can develop and locations, customers and markets.
We are committed to ensuring that employees are treated fairly in an During 2014 we further developed and enhanced our core environment which is free from any framework of people processes.
We have introduced and form of discrimination on the grounds of age, religion, race, sex, disability, mandated a consistent global performance management gender reassignment, marriage civil process, which will help bind all our key Human Resources partnership, pregnancy and maternity processes: including recruitment, people development, and sexual orientation.
succession planning, induction and reward.
This new process, During 2014 we revised our Diversity which will enable us to manage more effectively and consistently and Inclusion policy, further details of which are contained in the Nominations the performance of our teams and businesses, was introduced Committee Report on pages 55 and 56. in response to feedback provided through the 2013 Employee We also continued to track our progress Survey, which highlighted the need for regular performance in terms of gender diversity.
In 2014 30% of our graduates were female a slight decline from 2013 Also in response to employees requests for clearer and more where the number was 36% and open reward processes and frameworks, we have established we will continue to focus our efforts a formal management committee, made-up of representatives to recruit more diverse international from across the Group, to review our management business leaders across the Group.
remuneration practices on a regular basis.
Extensive consultation was undertaken by employees across the Group to further enhance the IMI Way and our values.
As a result, we have incorporated the fourth value of collaboration as we know this is crucial to the overall success of the Group.
We are also evolving our IMI Way behavioural framework which will be embedded into all our key people processes during the course of 2015.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We aim to create an environment that allows existing employees to give of their best and is attractive to a diverse range of potential employees.
Geoff Tranfield Group Human Resources Director Engineering GREAT the IMI Way We look to recruit the best people with relevant skills Teams 9 & 12 of the Management Fundamentals Our employees understand the contribution they make Programme Graduating in Shanghai, China to the performance of the business Resourcing Recruitment Development Employee engagement Our ability to harness the Groups full To help us attract and retain the right We aim to create an environment in potential of course relies on having people and to ensure that we have which our employees are engaged with the right people in the right places at a strong talent pipeline, we operate their work, understand the contribution the right times.
This means recruiting development programmes at all levels they make to the performance of and developing the best people, who of the Group.
the business and have a means of have excellent relevant skills and who providing constructive feedback.
To ensure that our people are clearly aligned to both our values development initiatives support In June 2014 we launched a new global and our ambitions.
our growth agenda and provide intranet which facilitates the sharing of Accountability for recruitment sits our employees with the most relevant knowledge and best practice, as well with our local management teams training and learning opportunities, as encouraging collaboration and team who determine their recruitment during 2014 all development work across the Groups businesses needs, taking into account their programmes were reviewed.
regardless of division or geography.
businesss strategic plan and the As a result of this review a number All desk-based employees now have need to reflect both our customer of changes have been made and both access to this platform, which serves and marketplace footprints.
new and updated programmes will be as a very effective communication launched in 2015, including a Groupchannel and, by way of example, During the course of 2014 much work wide on-line learning portal and an has been used to share the Chief has been undertaken to standardise expanded graduate programme to Executives regular video updates and strengthen our recruitment further develop and strengthen our which have covered the Groups processes to ensure both excellence technical capabilities.
strategy and our progress against plan.
In particular we have launched a new induction procedure In 2015 we will also be focusing To further enhance the sharing of for our managers who are leading on improving senior management news and success stories around IMIs strategy where we identify our succession and enhancing core the Group, we launched the IMI Eye, expectations and what they can supervisory and front-line management a newsletter which will be published expect as an employee of the Group.
every six months and is written by and for our employees.
The first edition in October 2014 contained a range of stories including updates on lean improvement, new product development and major project wins.
