OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS s t R c e u i n d o v e r p s t i h n t i g w i e n l b s i s o n c o i p e t s e y R CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY High Product Standards Operating responsibly is integral to the Consumers and other stakeholders rightly expect us to adhere to way we do business.
It supports our high product standards.
We rigorously test and analyse our products to ensure we continue to build our knowledge and understanding.
sales growth strategy and is crucial to This enables us to fulfil our duty of care to consumers and meet legal our long-term success.
requirements for scientific disclosures and submissions.
During the year, weve been particularly focused on the testing and We measure our performance against the progress we make in four scientific analysis of e-vapour products.
Our non-tobacco business key areas: being responsible with products, having a rewarding Fontem Ventures launched its first e-vapour product in 2014 and workplace, respecting natural resources and reinvesting in society.
continues to evaluate plans for other product launches in 2015.
These form the basis of our responsibility framework: they are the Marketing Products Responsibly priorities for our business, our people and our stakeholders.
Legislation that governs the way tobacco should be advertised and marketed to the public is in place in most markets.
We also have our Our values embody the behaviours we expect from everyone who own stringent International Marketing Standards IMS which are works for us and our Code of Conduct includes policies, internal published in full on our corporate website.
controls and risk management processes that underpin our sales growth strategy.
All Imperial Tobacco Group companies and employees, and the agencies we work with around the world, must adhere to our IMS Our values and Code of Conduct are embedded in the business and and local legislation at all times.
During the year, we appointed a support our responsibility framework.
single global marketing agency which has further enhanced the Over the next few pages you can find out more about the consistency of our marketing.
achievements weve made in each area.
More detailed information Fighting Illicit Trade on our 2014 performance and objectives for 2015 can be The illegal market in tobacco undermines societys efforts to ensure found in the Responsibility section of our corporate website that tobacco products are marketed responsibly.
com cr governments of valuable tax revenues, illicit trade has other adverse Were proud of the focus our people give to our responsibility impacts: children can more easily obtain tobacco, adult consumers agenda and continue to be encouraged by the positive feedback are exposed to products that have no quality controls, and retailers we receive externally.
and tobacco companies lose legitimate sales.
We scored 94 per cent in the Business in the Community Corporate We advocate a partnership approach to fighting illicit trade and Responsibility Index and 74 per cent in the RobecoSAM assessment seek to work with governments and customs and law enforcement for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
agencies to combat the problem of tobacco smuggling and counterfeiting.
Goals We have 23 Memoranda of Understanding MoU with authorities around the world and continue to invest in our long-term anti-illicit To create a Focus Areas To support trade partnership agreement with the European Commission great legitimate and Member States.
During the year, we renewed our MoU with workplace markets and authorities in Belgium and signed a new MoU agreement with Mali.
consumers We highlight the dangers of illicit trade through our regulatory engagement.
Extreme regulation that requires standardising tobacco Our Values products makes them easier to counterfeit and increases illicit trade.
Cigarettes have been sold in generic plain packaging in Australia since December 2012.
Illicit trade has increased since then and there has been no material impact on consumption or the level of youth smoking.
Working with Retailers We continue to build strong relationships with retail partners around the world to support our sales strategy and responsibility framework.
Code of Conduct We actively encourage retailers to sell responsibly.
Tobacco products are for adults and should never be sold to children.
We reinforce this through our support for initiatives aimed at preventing tobacco sales To make To reduce our to children, including schemes that highlight the minimum age at the positive societal environmental contributions impact point of sale.
Rewarding Workplace We strive to provide a safe and pleasant working environment that inspires employees to do their best.
We want to see skills and talent Responsible with Products flourish and are proud of the diversity and collaborative spirit of Millions of people around the world choose to enjoy our products our workforce.
We recognise there are societal concerns about the health A Diverse Workforce risks of smoking and ensure that our products are manufactured, We employ 34,000 people in more than 60 countries around the marketed and sold responsibly.
Our people come from many different backgrounds and cultures, enriching the vibrancy of our business.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 17 R e s e p c e a c l t p i k n r g o n w a t g u r n a i l d r r e a s w o e u r R c e s CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Around 39 per cent of our workforce is female, with some 13,190 Reinvesting in Society women employed.
At a senior leadership level, 22 per cent of the We are proud to be part of many different communities around the Operating Executive and 30 per cent of the Board are female, as world and have developed strong partnerships with a wide range of of 30 September 2014. stakeholders in the communities we serve.
The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is Human Rights highlighted in our Code of Conduct, now available in 24 languages, We have a role to play in addressing human rights issues.
We have and underpinned by our values.
This is reinforced through offering influence with our suppliers and we use this to improve conditions in equal opportunities and giving fair consideration to applications for our supply chain.
employment, career development and promotion, without having This respect for human rights is reflected in our Code of Conduct regard to an employees gender, race, religion, age or disability.
and Supplier Standards which we use to exert influence in our Our values capture the essence of what its like to be part of Imperial business and our supply chain.
We have a focus on antiTobacco: the combination of the We values and the I values discrimination and harassment, a healthy and safe working reflect the individual and collective behaviours we expect from environment, responsible procurement, supplier partnerships our people.
Our efforts to provide the best possible working environment and Were a business committed to doing things the right way and opportunities for our people have been recognised with a number that means acting with respect, fairness and integrity at all times.
of Best Employer awards in markets such as Spain, Italy, Russia, The governance of countries may vary but our respect for human Poland and Madagascar.
rights extends throughout our operations.
It is implicit in our Engaging and Developing our People employment practices and within the high standards we expect Our global engagement survey gives employees the opportunity to from suppliers and other business partners.
have their say and provides us with valuable feedback that is used Supplier Standards to develop local and global action plans.
Working with our supply chain stakeholders to address important The 2013 survey generated an excellent 89 per cent response issues such as leaf sustainability and child labour is a priority.
rate and showed a slight increase in overall engagement levels.
Our leaf and non-tobacco material suppliers must adhere to our This is encouraging, particularly against a background of change Code of Conduct as well as meet the high standards we set for in the business.
employment practices, health and safety, quality and environment.
The sense of pride that we instil in being part of Imperial Tobacco All our leaf suppliers are required to participate in our Social and our commitment to corporate responsibility were highlighted Responsibility in Tobacco Production SRiTP programme, which as particular strengths of the business.
Areas where employees encourages continual performance improvement in key areas said we can do even better included further improving the way we including employment, health and safety, environmental manage and develop our people, and this has been a key focus in management and good agricultural practices.
We work with external consultants to evaluate performance, provide Partnering with Ashridge Business School, weve launched worldtraining and share good practice and we were pleased to see our class development programmes that are tailored for employees at overall leaf supplier performance against the SRiTP criteria increase different levels of the business.
Weve also invested more in learning from 71 per cent to 75 per cent in the year.
initiatives and enhanced the tools available to support annual performance and development reviews.
Farmer Livelihoods and Child Labour Child labour is a risk in agricultural supply chains and we continue to Employee Value Proposition support the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco ECLT Foundation During the year, we worked with 250 employees across multiple in tackling this problem.
Working with the Foundation, we help markets to develop and launch our Employee Value Proposition communities understand child labour issues and seek better access EVP Bring it on.
to education and health services for children.
Bring it on encapsulates who we are and what we stand for, an Our own projects aim to improve the livelihoods of farmers in Malawi, EVP that connects employees around the world and is a powerful Tanzania, Zambia, Madagascar and Laos.
This helps secure future tool for attracting dynamic new talent into the business.
tobacco supplies and is essential for providing farmers with a better Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing income and higher standards of living, reducing poverty and the The safety of our people is of paramount importance and we are reliance on child labour.
pleased to report a further 15 per cent decrease in our lost time Supporting Communities accident frequency rate in the year.
We were saddened that two We fund a number of projects that are connected to the communities contractors suffered fatal falls in Kiev and Senegal and have assisted in which we operate.
We particularly focus on supporting the most authorities with their investigations.
We have also undertaken our disadvantaged communities around our factories, offices and own local and Group investigations and implemented additional tobacco sourcing activities.
Our Altadis Foundation supports initiatives to improve livelihoods in We made further progress in installing world-class management areas where we have operational sites.
The Foundation supported systems aligned to the international occupational health and safety a number of projects in the year including providing safe drinking management standard OHSAS 18001 across our manufacturing water and improving sanitation for communities near one of our cigar operations.
Five additional sites in Chad, the Philippines, Ivory Coast factories in the La Romana province of the Dominican Republic.
and Morocco were certified as having reached this standard during the year.
Our Leaf Partnership Committee supports tobacco farming communities and during the year we funded initiatives aimed at We were delighted with the response from our employees to the enhancing the livelihoods of farmers including improving tobacco Global Corporate Challenge, a 16-week initiative that encourages curing and labour efficiency in Malawi, Tanzania, Zambia and Laos.
people to form teams and complete activities that are equivalent to 10,000 steps a day.
Around 1,200 companies worldwide signed up to the challenge.
More than 7,400 of our employees took part and their remarkable efforts resulted in Imperial Tobacco finishing fourth in the overall global rankings.
18 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS More and more employees are volunteering to get involved in Were pleased with improvements were seeing in farming projects linked to our responsibility framework.
In 2014 the communities in Central America, where were working with our projects they supported included: refurbishing accommodation for suppliers to train farmers on good agricultural practices, with a disadvantaged young people in Macedonia, cleaning waterways particular focus on maximising opportunities for water conservation in the Philippines, tree planting in Poland and building ovens to and protection.
support a community cooking business in a village in Burkina Faso.
Environmental Reporting We report on greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our tobacco Respecting Natural Resources operations which fall within our consolidated financial statements We respect natural resources and are committed to further using the operational control reporting method.
We report scope 1 reducing our environmental impact, minimising waste and improving direct and scope 2 indirect emissions for which we are responsible energy efficiency.
using a methodology based on the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition.
We measure progress by comparing our performance with our 2009 Any deviations from this standard are described below.
We have base year, using independently verified 2013 data.
considered the seven main greenhouse gases and report in CO 2 Climate Change and Energy equivalent.
Our relative emissions are expressed against net tobacco We are well on track to reduce our carbon footprint and energy revenue, which is consistent with the standardised CDP reporting usage by 20 per cent by 2020, having already reduced our energy format and facilitates meaningful comparison with other businesses consumption by 10 per cent.
that report both their emissions and financial fundamentals.
A number of energy efficiency initiatives have contributed to our Our scope 1 emissions include: emissions from stationary fuel success, including our use of guaranteed energy-saving contracts.
combustion at our sites: emissions from mobile fuel combustion in Four more of our largest manufacturing sites have signed up to our fleet of company vehicles: leakage of refrigerant gases: and these contracts.
process emissions from the Dry Ice Expanded Tobacco process at our expansion plants.
Our scope 2 emissions include the indirect Were original members of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, emissions resulting from the use of purchased electricity, heat and which works with organisations to measure and reduce their steam at our sites.
emissions and climate change impacts.
We continue to make improvements in this area, achieving an 84 per cent score from We include all main sources of emissions including all manufacturing the CDP in 2014. sites over which we have operational control, our expansion plants in Cadiz and Reidsville, and our main offices Bristol, Hamburg, Paris, Resource Efficiency Madrid and Casablanca.
Operations not included, as deemed Getting the most out of the materials and natural resources we use is immaterial or beyond our current reporting capabilities, relate to good for our business and good for the environment.
Our mantra is: greenhouse gases other than the seven Kyoto gases, the JR 800 reduce, re-use and recycle.
Cigar retail outlets in the USA, small sales offices being those offices In manufacturing we are increasing the use of environmental not listed above which contribute less than 0.05 per cent of our management systems that are independently certified to the total scope 1 and 2 emissions, our Habanos joint venture and our environmental management standard ISO 14001, with 89 per cent Cambodian distribution operation.
of our factories now certified to this standard.
Scope 1 emissions arising from mobile fuel combustion in our fleet Our unverified performance indicators for waste and waste to landfill of company vehicles for the latest financial year are unverified show a very small increase this year.
This reflects portfolio, marketing estimates based on data from the previous financial year.
All other and operational footprint changes we made as part of our business emissions for the latest financial year are unverified estimated data transition agenda.
based on the first six months of the latest financial year and the final six months of the previous financial year.
Verified data is reported We have steadily reduced waste and waste to landfill in recent years 12 months in arrears to allow for internal checking, validation and and remain focused on further building on this positive trend.
continue working with suppliers to help them minimise waste and reduce their environmental impact.
We provide additional information on Logista, which is managed remotely due to commercial sensitivities and does not report wholly Reforestation Programmes into Group data.
This year, for the first time, Logista has provided Were actively involved in protecting forests.
Tobacco growing may verified data for their absolute emissions within Scopes 1, 2 and 3 use wood either as a fuel for curing tobacco or as construction for FY13.
Last year we enhanced our approach to forestry preservation by launching a major tree-growing programme with our FY13 suppliers that aims to achieve wood sustainability in Africa by 2020.
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Tree planting has continued and we are also introducing measures to CO2 equivalent emissions improve wood fuel efficiency and reduce wood consumption.
Tonnes 37,709 7,732156,586 Water Management Logistas scope 1 emissions relate to the stationary and mobile fuel We remain committed to building on our strong track record of combustion and emissions from landfill waste.
Refrigerant gases reducing water consumption.
Unverified data indicates a slight for Logista are not included due to current reporting capabilities.
increase in water usage for this year.
This minimal increase relates Scope 2 emissions include the indirect emissions resulting from to a 1.7 per cent increase in water consumption across our the use of purchased electricity, heat and steam at Logistas sites.
global operations and, although disappointing, does not cause Scope 3 emissions are primarily associated with third-party hauliers.
Logistas unverified relative CO2 equivalent emissions within Scopes In our factories we apply environmental management systems 1 and 2 amount to 53.46 tonnes per million pounds of FY13 under the international standard ISO 14001 to reduce water use distribution fees our non-GAAP revenue measure for Logista.
Each location has its own local water More detail is available at www.
We continue to work on improving our Group reporting boundaries and the timeliness of data.
More information on our environmental reporting approach can be found in the Responsibility section of our website.
The monetary value million is for tobacco net revenue or logistics distribution fees, where appropriate.
FY13 data has been assured by PwC: see website for more information.
Unverified FY14 data is estimated based on data from the last six months of FY13 and the first six months of FY14.
Verified data for FY14 will be published next year.
2 Verified accident and absence data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and verification.
Sickness absence includes non-work related and work related absence.
Provisional unverified FY14 data is provided.
3 All our tobacco suppliers participated in the SRiTP programme in 2013, which provides specific guidance for improvement against a variety of criteria.
See our website for more information.
Data for 2013 has been verified.
We report 12 months in arrears to allow for the reporting and analysis of data.
Key data reported in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year to 30 September 2014 has been independently assured under the limited assurance requirements of the ISAE3000 standard by PwC.
They have also been engaged to look at our alignment with AA1000AS 2008 principles of inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness.
Some of the selected data covered by this assurance is clearly highlighted within the Corporate Responsibility section of the Annual Report and all of the selected data is included in the Corporate Responsibility section of the website www.
com cr where their limited assurance statement can be found.
PwC has provided Imperial Tobacco with CR assurance services from FY10.
Earlier data was assured by another provider.
