Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility at Inchcape is driven by our people, and colleagues across the world are involved in a wide range of activities that make a positive difference every day.
These activities include support of local charities and local communities, environmental initiatives and customer programmes.
Inchcape people are committed to contributing responsibly and sustainably to our society.
Our Core Purpose is to create an incredible customer experience for the best car brands in the world: providing customers with access to exciting products and services that help them advance their lives, we set out to do so in such a way that makes customers feel special.
In so doing, we are helping to provide choice and independence to people around the world in both developed and emerging markets.
And what our incredible people add every day is an extraordinary amount of passion and care in everything they do.
They are passionate about the industry in which they work and the products they sell and maintain: and they demonstrate real care for their customers, their local communities and the broader environment.
In 2014 we continued our glo-cal approach to embedding responsible behaviour into the way we operate to grow a sustainable business for the benefit of all our OUR VALUES stakeholders: reaffirming our Values and ethos and sharing best practice from the centre, Our Values are living, shared beliefs and encouraging and empowering local teams to pursue CR programmes that ignite that inform our day to day behaviours.
This approach helps us to capture the spirit and energy of our incredible These Values empower our culture, people and achieve our wider goal of becoming an ever-better company.
drive our business and enable us to Our peoples commitment to their local communities has inspired life-changing contribute responsibly and sustainably initiatives over many years.
2014 was no exception with Inchcapes market leading to society.
business in Guam, Atkins Kroll, celebrating its centenary anniversary with a groundbreaking Cars in the Community project.
Launched in partnership with the Toyota Motor Passionate about Corporation, Atkins Kroll is now on course to fulfil its commitment to make 25 Toyota cars making a difference available free of charge to local volunteer and community support organisations.
This is just one illustration of the many inspirational initiatives that our colleagues are involved Respect and in around the world.
You can read more about our community projects on our corporate camaraderie website www.
Our Values are living, shared beliefs within our business that inform our day to day Being always behaviours.
These Values empower our culture, drive our business and enable us to ahead contribute responsibly and sustainably to society.
Read more about our Values on our corporate website www.
Winning We believe that our colleagues spirit, passion and enthusiasm, combined with our together mission to promote Mobility with Passion and Care underpinned by our Values, means that we will continue to make a positive impact on the lives of our people, our customers, Integrity without our brand partners and in the communities in which we operate, while managing our compromise impact on the environment.
Caring for our society Treating every as our own Andr Lacroix Group Chief Executive See how we promote Mobility with Passion and Care www.
com responsibility who we support 38 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR CR MISSION: PROMOTING MOBILITY WITH PASSION AND CARE Our five core areas of corporate responsibility People Customers Brand Partners Communities Environment We attract, train We drive constantly We partner with We support our We manage our and motivate by improving levels brands that are local communities CO footprint by 2 engaging our of customer service at the forefront of to make positive understanding people in the every day, every green technology impacts where our impact Groups Strategy time, everywhere developments we operate and Vision More on people More on customers More on brand More on communities More on environment on page 40 on page 40 partners on page 40 on page 40 on page 41 Our key initiatives 2014 Review: Objectives for 2015: During 2014 we have concentrated on these areas: We have chosen a few strategically important objectives for 2015: our People: we have continued and strengthened our our People: we will continue to strengthen our Incredible Incredible Inchcape programme, designed to empower Inchcape programme, with an emphasis on and mobilise our colleagues to take the Company to driving capability.
our Customers: we will continue to accelerate our our Customers: we continued the acceleration of our Customer Customer 1st agenda, with a focus on digital, product 1st agenda, with a focus on digital in order to provide an passion and congruence, to provide an incredible incredible seamless customer experience online and in our seamless customer experience online and in our retail centres.
our Communities: we have participated in numerous our Communities: we will continue to encourage our community and charitable support initiatives around the local teams to participate in community and charitable world, driven by our local teams.
our Environment: we continued to refine our analysis of our Environment: we will continue to refine our analyses our CO impact data for all markets in accordance with of our CO impact data for all markets in accordance with 2 2 DEFRA standards.
com 39 Corporate Responsibility continued People Human Rights Brand partners We know that it is our people that make We embrace, support and respect the Our brand partners are carefully all the difference and throughout 2014 we human rights of everyone we work with selected for each market in which we continued to develop our people strategy and we comply fully with appropriate operate.
They have each developed of engaged people in winning teams human rights legislation in the countries in comprehensive sustainability programmes by focusing on the Right People, Right which we operate.
We dont use or accept and the automotive industry in general Learning, Right Reward and Right Culture.
forced, bonded or involuntary prison or has made significant progress in reducing Read more about our People Strategy on child labour.
We only employ people who vehicle emissions.
choose to work freely and respect their Our brand partners are at the forefront com people and careers overview.
rights to equal opportunities and freedom of technological advances to improve of association.
In 2014 we also continued to embed fuel efficiency.
Incredible Inchcape, our Group-wide Environment, Health & Safety Learn more about our brand partners: engagement programme designed Number of accidents 2014 www.
com about us Location 2014 2013 2012 2011 to mobilise our colleagues to take the brand partners Australasia 23 22 16 7 Company to new heights.
We launched Europe 18 12 19 9 Communities the pilot of the Inchcape SatNav With our extensive international business, portal, an e-learning resource that North Asia 39 25 26 32 we firmly believe in supporting the many brings together in one place proprietary South Asia 5 8 4 2 different communities and cultures processes, best practices and tools UK 87 85 82 74 within which we operate, often through designed to help individuals and teams Emerging Markets 26 23 8 5 sponsorship and support of local charities increase their capability.
These inspirational We are committed to providing a safe activities are decided on and driven by Employee diversity environment for our employees.
Our our people, who are passionate about approach to safety aims to manage risks the causes and charities they support.
effectively by ensuring that our employees are fully trained and our businesses Some truly incredible CR initiatives were comply with safety regulations.
For example, in Ethiopia, 2014, we have seen a 13% increase in the where we operate a highly successful number of accidents reported.
This is due Toyota distribution business, our people to an increased awareness in Emerging have supported the Mother and Child Markets and North Asia and there Rehabilitation Centre since 2002.
This have been no specific trends or areas inspirational project provides shelter, food, of concern.
education, medical care and therapy for Female 3,875 26.2% Male 10,917 73.8% the most disadvantaged children and Customers education and support for their parents Our Customer 1st strategy is at the to help them overcome trauma and build heart of everything we do and creates Senior Management diversity promising futures.
This is just one example incredible growth for our people, our of the many inspirational initiatives that our brand partners and our shareholders.
colleagues are involved in around the world.
Our strategy is to strengthen the business through delivering a superior customer experience, seamlessly online and offline.
Mother and Child Rehabilitation A key focus in 2014 was an acceleration Centre in Ethiopia of our digital agenda, in order to provide our customers with an industry-leading experience online and seamless integration with our retail centre experience.
St Female 9 10.5% Male 77 89.5% Customer 1 highlights in 2014 We carried out over 4,800 mystery shop exercises in 257 retail showrooms Board diversity and service centres globally.
We talked to 16,000 customers every month for our Vehicle Sales and Aftersales Net Promoter Score NPS programme.
The NPS has improved again across the Group in both Sales and Aftersales.
We tracked customer satisfaction with our 140 websites.
More information about these initiatives can We saw a double-digit increase in be found on the CR section of the corporate Female 2 20% Male 8 80% the traffic coming into the Group.
com responsibility 40 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Environment Guam Cars for the Community Environment is a core area of focus within our CR programme.
Atkins Kroll is now on course to fulfil its commitment to make 25 Toyota cars During 2014 we refined our CO data available free of charge to local volunteer and community support organisations.
2 collection process and completed a full years data analysis.
Our colleagues around the world also took part in environmentally focused initiatives to support their local communities and wildlife.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations quoted companies are required to report their greenhouse gas emissions GHG in the Directors Report.
As the environment is a core area of focus, the information required under the Regulations is given in this report, which forms part of the Strategic Report.
Organisational boundary We have reported on all material emissions for which we deem ourselves Data collection to be responsible and which fall within Data has been collected from the following markets: Australia, Belgium, Brunei, Bulgaria, our operational and control boundaries.
Chile, China, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, Greece, Guam, Hong Kong, Latvia, Lithuania, Reporting period Luxembourg, Macau, New Zealand, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, Saipan, Singapore Our GHG reporting year is 1 January and the UK.
2014 to 31 December 2014 and is The level at which we report is by business unit for each market.
This covers our retail aligned to our financial reporting year.
operations, distribution operations and business service operations.
Key environmental impacts Scope Description Data is collected for three core key Scope 1 direct emissions Transport of vehicles and parts including test drives performance indicators: Scope 2 energy indirect Electricity and gas used by the Groups operations Energy our global electricity and Scope 3 other indirect Employees business travel by air, car or train gas usage.
Intensity ratio Transport movement of cars and The Groups intensity ratio is revenue per tonne of CO.
This allows for a fair comparison 2 parts from the point of ownership over time of CO emissions, given the growth trajectory envisaged by the Company 2 which means legal or contractual and cyclical variations in business activity.
ownership to the point we cease to have legal ownership.
This includes Global greenhouse gas emissions data customer test drives.
In our second year measuring CO emissions, the Groups intensity ratio improved by 2 2.6%, helped by strong business growth and CO control measures, such as an energy 2 Business travel the movement of efficiency initiative in the UK Retail business.
The Groups CO emissions increased by 2 our people.
7.1% year-on-year, primarily driven by the full-year impact of the Trivett acquisition and strong new vehicle sales growth, which resulted in higher emissions from transportation Methodology of vehicles.
The Group delivered revenue growth of 10.0% at constant currency which The methodology used to calculate the enabled us to improve our intensity ratio.
Groups GHG emissions is based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines, Tonnes of CO e 2 including mandatory greenhouse gas FY 2014 FY 2013 emissions reporting guidance June 2013 Emissions from: issued by the Department for Environment, Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 71,034 66,165 Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA and Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 66,629 62,325 includes DEFRAs 2014 conversion factors.
Total footprint 137,662 128,490 Intensity Ratio: k per tonne of CO 50 49 2 Note: Intensity ratio is calculated using revenue at constant currency in the 2013 Annual Report this was calculated using revenues at actual currency.
