Expand global treatment Outside the US, growth is slower.
Where the treatment paradigm adopted by many countries is moving towards a medical treatment Capitalize on international growth opportunities rather than a containment model.
Furthermore, the Company There are an estimated ten million opioid-dependent individuals believes that a significant population of  in the countries in which Indivior has a commercial presence, patients constitutes an unrecognized potential patient population only 30% of whom are currently receiving treatment.
Geographic for buprenorphine-based medical treatment.
While the market in expansion of Indiviors footprint to countries currently underserved Europe is expected to show slow growth in volume in the years ahead, by existing therapies and treatment options brings further particularly if opioid-painkiller dependence gains greater recognition, opioid-dependent individuals within Indiviors commercial reach.
this may be offset by further governmental austerity-driven price Expansion of Indiviors business to the treatment of opioid and reductions for prescription medicines, and pressure on health alcohol dependence in all markets offers an opportunity to access authorities to switch to generic alternatives.
In Australia, widened an estimated total of 145.3 million potential patients, illustrating access to treatment is producing steady growth in the market.
significant international growth opportunities for Indivior.
Longer term, opportunity exists to develop Indiviors patient-focused 4. Business development model of medical treatment of opioid addiction in markets such as Growth through targeted and disciplined acquisitions China.
For this reason, the Company is already conducting clinical Indivior will seek to leverage its cash flow and balance sheet trials of Suboxone Tablet in China.
However this opportunity is not flexibility for the acquisition of assets that enable the fulfilment of expected to impact significantly on the Companys financial prospects its Vision.
Its focus will be to capitalize on existing commercialization in the foreseeable future.
Specifically, Indivior will seek to Our resources and our structure target underserved disease spaces that require long-held experience of the regulatory framework, the ability to create public Highly experienced management team awareness and to define a market, and a sales force with an ability Indiviors management team has over 60 years cumulative to achieve physician access.
Indivior will seek to focus on the areas experience in leading the business.
Biographies of the Executive of addiction and on specialized disease areas which complement Committee, the global leadership team, are on page 35. our existing expertise in neuroscience.
Indiviors two most recent In addition, Indivior benefits from a group of managers with unique transactions illustrate this strategy: knowledge, experience and credibility in developing addiction On February 10, 2014, Indivior entered into an agreement with treatment globally.
AntiOp Inc. to co-develop a naloxone nasal spray to aid in the Dr Chris Chapleo, Clinical and Scientific Affairs Director, has been reversal of opioid overdose, with the option to acquire all rights involved in buprenorphine research since the 1980s and was to the product upon receipt of regulatory and marketing approval.
Indiviors principal investigator for the Co-operative Research and The product has the potential to be the first of its kind to treat Development Agreement with National Institute on Drug Abuse overdose from opioid prescription analgesics and heroin NIDA to develop buprenorphine products for the treatment a growing epidemic across the globe.
On May 14, 2014, Indivior entered into an exclusive worldwide Dr Ed Johnson, Vice President, Treatment and Health Policy, was licensing agreement with XenoPort, Inc. for the development the lead or collaborative investigator for numerous clinical studies and commercialization of an oral product candidate called during his 17-year tenure at NIDAs Intramural Research program Arbaclofen Placarbil.
Arbaclofen Placarbil is a new patentand his 12 years at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, including protected chemical entity that Indivior intends to advance the first pivotal clinical trial and supporting studies leading into a Phase 2B proof-of-concept study for the treatment to FDA approval of buprenorphine for the treatment of of alcohol use disorder a condition estimated to affect opioid dependence.
The management team has built a global organization of over Market and business environment 700 individuals, and the Board believes that the culture of The market for Indiviors products continues to grow.
Indivior contributes to its ability to retain, develop and recruit high-performing talent while serving as the foundation for Demand for buprenorphine-based drugs in the US, the Companys current and future growth.
main market, increased approximately 13% by volume in 2014, driven by growing numbers of qualified physicians, which has led Howard Pien, Chairman of the Board, has extensive experience to increased access to treatment.
Opioid dependence is a public as a senior executive in the pharmaceutical industry, including as health crisis in the US with an estimated 12 million people a year chairman and CEO of Medarex and president and CEO of Chiron misusing opioids, of whom some 2.4 million are estimated to be Corporation.
He also serves on the boards of Sage Therapeutics, dependent.
Fewer than half of these dependent patients are in Juno Therapeutics, Vanda Pharmaceuticals, Ikaria and Immunogen.
treatment at any time, and fewer than 20% are being treated with In addition, the Non-Executive Directors provide a wide-ranging and buprenorphine-based medications which constitute the Companys deep level of experience of the pharmaceutical industry from drug primary market.
As more physicians train and qualify to treat, origination and approval through commercialization.
as access to office-based treatment grows, and as awareness of such treatment increases, further growth in the market is expected at similar low-double-digit rates of increase.
22 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
