03 60 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 61 03 Community At Infinis, we see our local communities as a key partner in ensuring sustainable development.
Therefore, we are committed to making a positive contribution to our local communities, to building strong relationships and being a good neighbour where we operate.
It creates a sense of employee Annie Ransome, Community full consultations with the local ownership and engagement with Fundraising Consultant at BCH, communities where we are developing community programmes which is was delighted, commenting that and operating Infinis sites, as why we focus our charity support donations and public support like explained on pages 4751.
that shown by Infinis enables the we also go beyond this in our efforts hospital to do much more than would to make a positive impact through After six years the Charity Challenge otherwise be possible.
Thank you to regular community contributions.
has supported over 80 charities Infinis for supporting our children across the UK with a total sum raised they deserve the best and together Our main community contributions of over 60,000.
Our employees we can give it to them.
programme is the Infinis Charity nominated charities have included Challenge.
Running since 2008, the Action 4 Youth, Solar Aid, the Roy We also plan to get more involved Charity Challenge provides support Castle Lung Cancer Foundation and in the BCH fundraising campaign for charities and good causes the Childrens Hope Foundation.
though employee-led events nominated by employees.
health, safety or environmental In December 2013, in a new approach, near-miss reported, the Company it was decided to donate 50% of the We are very proud of our Charity makes a 25 donation to the charity challenge money raised in Challenge scheme and the Challenge fund.
Nominations contributions it has made to for deserving charities were invited charitable causes so far.
Beyond The Charity Challenge is an from employees, and, after a vote, these donations, we are also pleased innovative programme in three ways: Birmingham Childrens Hospital that our work with local communities 1.
It embeds our community BCH, was selected.
BCH is one of around our development sites has investment strategy into our wider only four specialist childrens helped achieve significant positive sustainability and business objectives.
hospitals in the UK, cares for 140,000 impacts in these localities.
children every year, and is a Centre of 2.
It sends a clear message on the Excellence for children requiring importance of near-miss reporting, cardiac surgery, neurosurgery, successfully increasing the number of trauma surgery and epilepsy surgery.
reports from employees as explained on pages 5455: and 03 62 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 63 03 Case study Our charity of the year: Birmingham Childrens Hospital Our Charity of the Year was chosen Throughout 2014 15, BCH will receive by our staff.
All employees had the 50% of all funds raised through our Charity of the year opportunity to nominate a charity.
near-miss, incident and accident This year we have launched 50% From the list of nominations our reporting fundraising scheme.
Charity Committee narrowed the list We are also encouraging employees our first Charity of the Year down to four organisations based on to undertake additional fundraising 240,000 Throughout 2014, the following criteria: activities for the charity including Partnership, with Birmingham patient visits each year BCH will receive 50% marathon running and a sponsored A cause charity with which staff, cycle ride.
of all funds raised Childrens Hospital BCH.
or their families are involved: through our nearBirmingham Childrens Hospital A cause charity which has local miss, incident and roots in a community near to accident reporting our sites: fundraising scheme.
A cause charity of a suitable The hospital provides the widest range of childrens scale where there will be a clear, measurable benefit health services in Birmingham and the surrounding from our donation.
It has over 140,000 patient visits each year.
Our charity of the year We decided to adopt a Charity of the Year to was chosen by our staff enable us to donate the increasing amounts of money raised from our near-miss reporting in a targeted manner and to provide a Company-wide focus to enable our staff to connect with our charity work.
This is in addition to our support for numerous smaller, local charities.
