03 64 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 65 03 Our people An employer of choice in our field Our aim within Infinis is to ensure that we attract, develop and retain top quality people at all levels of the organisation.
We believe that the strength of our teams correlates to our strong business performance, and by striving to maintain Infinis as an employer of choice we will support our continued delivery of broader organisational goals and targets.
We maintain a strong focus on staff Communication with our people Regular meetings held across the development to help achieve our aim We pride ourselves on the fact that country with local operational of providing fulfilling and meaningful Infinis is a business that is managers to keep communication careers, with a large number of staff transparent, with Board Directors open with our field teams: in supervisory or managerial roles happy to engage directly with being internally promoted to their technicians and other staff.
Team get-togethers on-site: positions, having first honed their Throughout the last year, and skills within the Infinis culture.
Our particularly during the period prior to Regular conference calls discussing desire to develop staff is not Listing, the management team of immediate and medium-term restricted to those progressing Infinis ensured that employees were operational performance measures through the Company.
Effort is spent as well informed as possible and improvement strategies: to develop teams and individuals that throughout the process, given the are effectively positioned to deliver ongoing requirement for The Company e-zine, Energize, results on a day-to-day basis, whilst confidentiality and discretion, which appears three times a year, preparing for future challenges.
To through a combination of written covering a mix of business related underpin this ethos of personal and communication and traditional stories and lighter employeeteam growth, our whole employee town-hall style meetings.
orientated human interest proposition is geared around a articles: and number of areas: Given the diverse geographical spread of our workforce, coupled An operations-focused Health, safety and with different shift work patterns, Suggestions Scheme launched in environment policies: effective employee communications October 2013, where staff are are a constant challenge for Infinis, encouraged to contribute ideas Mission statement and but one which we willingly embrace linked to cost saving and or Company values: through a variety of means, including: process improvement, with the best being recognised via an award in the form of retail vouchers.
Code of conduct, including whistlePeriodic video team briefings, blowing and anti-bribery policies covering a variety of subjects Hiring and training people of the and training materials: focused on organisational performance from the Chief highest quality We are proud of our continuing focus Equal opportunities and Executive, which are distributed to diversity policies: all employees to view via our on a learning culture, enabling both new starters and long-standing internal intranet: A single performance appraisal employees to take advantage of the opportunities that are available to methodology which is both Town Hall meetings held at key user-friendly and well understood: centres around the UK, where our enhance their skills, with both their existing roles and future career and Executive team presents a comprehensive review and growth in mind.
Competitive and varied employee business update.
session is also an integral part of the event, which aims to be as participative as possible: 03 66 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 67 03 Our people continued Infinis delivers a wide range of other We believe that support and Green benefits training, covering topics such as appropriate management We continue to offer a unique range leadership skills for newly appointed intervention are key components in of special benefits geared to line managers, and high impact managing an individuals return to the supporting our employees in presentation training.
We also workplace, and welfare visits, along reducing their own environmental encourage career development for with regular communication, are footprint.
In partnership with the our employees by providing financial encouraged.
We ensure that there are National Energy Foundation, we and study exam leave support for appropriate occupational sick pay developed the SmallSteps green Further Education study.
In the schemes in place to support benefits programme.
We believe reporting period, a range of employees absent through sickness that its comprehensive nature and employees were supported in this and ill-health.
Employees can qualify its popularity with employees make way, undertaking a wide variety for up to 12 months of payments it unique.
The scheme is based on of studies from GCSE qualifications under our sickness scheme, education and incentives to to MBA and PhD level.
We believe dependent upon length of service.
encourage employees to make a that lifelong learning is a habit In addition, if an employee is range of changes in their day-to-day that should be encouraged, and unfortunate enough to be unable to lives in order to reduce their carbon provides mutual benefit to both work at all through serious ill-health footprint.
It features: As the economy has started to gather At our industry-leading Centre of business.
The provision of externally momentum, and the competition for Excellence in Lancaster our hub for sourced technical and safetyemployee and employer.
the Company income protection scheme provides financial support A variety of easily accessible talent has intensified, we have technical training, two technicians orientated wind energy training has widened the breadth of sources we have been accredited as instructors created an appealing career pathway When individuals do choose to until retirement age.
information on how to save energy leave Infinis, we conduct a thorough at home and whilst using transport use to identify people of the calibre to enable the delivery of a number of for individuals.
We re-launched a internal training courses.
As a result, exit interview so that we can Our approach to absence with advice ranging from doing understand what if anything management is backed up by a full the laundry at lower temperature staff referral scheme and also use a over the reporting period, 28 Infinis has a long-held belief that variety of tools to ensure that we are individuals had introductory there is intrinsic value in building a could be done better, with a view occupational health service, which to minimising the use of air to learning and improving staff provides prompt support in cases conditioning whilst driving: and taking advantage of many available mechanical training for gas talent pipeline of trainees and social media outlets across the UK engines, one of the core offerings apprentices to fill future requirements retention in the future.
where we have long-term sickness absence.
This outsourced service A range of employee financial and beyond.
from the Centre of Excellence.
Our investment The facilities at Lancaster have in young talent is ably demonstrated Employee welfare also supplies health-monitoring incentives, funded wholly by Infinis, Staff welfare has always been a key support, such as audiometry and to encourage a switch to low Once a new starter has joined us, the been further upgraded with a by the fact that last year saw six of focus moves from recruitment to the training turbocharger installed to our trainees appointed into focus at Infinis, as reflected by our inoculation checks, in order to emission vehicles and to promote average annual sickness absence rate ensure that employees are renewable microgeneration by training and induction of the complement a static training substantive roles within Operations, employee we have well established engine to aid learners appreciation with the remaining apprentices of 3.6 days lost per employee per adequately protected against some employees at home.
annum, which represents a reduction of the health and safety risks that induction processes, where new of site operations.
making excellent progress within starters are furnished with the their scheme.
from 3.9 the previous year, and is are naturally occurring in many of This scheme is now in its sixth year considerably lower than the UK our working environments.
and, since its start, participation from relevant Company, departmental or The quality of our in-house training technical skills to allow them to be as programmes is reflected in the Management development and the average for the private sector of employees has grown year on year.
7.6 days per annum source: CIPD Infinis also provides an Employee A total of 52 requests have been effective as possible in the early awarding of EngTech status, by the quest for continued improvement of stages of their career with us.
Health Institute of Diesel and Gas Turbine leadership skills is also a focus of our Absence Survey 2013.
Assistance Programme EAP that processed under the Cycle Scheme, activity, with a 360 appraisal serves to support our employees and which encourages staff to get fit and safety training remains a key Engineers, to 18 employees over the foundation of our training strategy, last three years.
programme in place for managers, their immediate families in line with by using pedal power, whilst 24 providing a wide-ranging and many of the challenges that modern members of staff currently take and is an important focus area within the induction period.
This includes The continuing growth of our wind accurate picture of individual life presents, as well as offering Childcare Vouchers, to support performance and personal access to online tools to promote their ongoing family responsibilities the Safety Passport, a cornerstone portfolio, and the quest to instil a of our Company-wide early induction culture of operational excellence, development needs.
via a tax efficient salary have undertaken this development sacrifice programme.
The success of this training, have led to substantial training and other early exposure to our activity and a great personal activity to date since the launch of this programme.
overarching safety culture, development opportunity for Infinis contributes to our strong Company employees.
Half of the employees in health and safety performance, as the Wind Operations team are former illustrated on pages 5055.
LFG employees, reflecting the flexible engineering skillsets available in the 03 68 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 69 03 Our people continued Employee performance measures Diversity: gender Sex 2013 14 2012 13 2011 12 Senior Senior Senior Employees Management Employees Management Employees Management Other information Policies and downloads available Male 89% 86% 89% 86% 89% 71% from our website www.
com Female 11% 14% 11% 14% 11% 29% Climate change statement Corporate responsibility statement Note: For 2011 12 Management included the CEO, CFO, Commercial Director, Director of Operations, the Human Environment policy Resources Director, the Head of Health, Safety, Quality and Environment and Group Company Secretary.
From 2012 13, Health and safety policy the Wind Development and Construction Director was added and from 2013 14 Infinis Energy plc Board of Directors are Equal opportunities policy also included.
Diversity: age Age 2013 14 2012 13 2011 12 Under 30 14% 15% 18% 3039 29% 31% 31% 4049 34% 34% 32% over 50 23% 20% 19% Diversity: ethnic diversity Ethnicity 2013 14 2012 13 2011 12 White UK 89% 90% 91% White Other 6% 5% 4% Black African 1% 1% 1% Black Caribbean 1% 1% 1% Other Mixed 3% 3% 3% background Our diversity policy and training ensure that we recruit, develop and promote employees based on performance regardless of race, gender, religion or belief, age, culture, sexual orientation, disability or background.
Employee turnover 2013 14 2012 13 2011 12 Total 13.4% 15.1% 15.9% Voluntary 10.4% 9.4% 10.8% Sickness absence rate average working days lost per year and per employee 2013 14 2012 13 3.6 3.9 These figures are significantly lower than the private sector average of 7.6 working days lost per annum per employee.
Further information relating to our CSR policies is available on our website www.
com and includes: Climate change statement: Health and safety policy: and Corporate responsibility statement: Equal opportunities policy.
