03 52 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 53 03 Health and safety RIDDOR reportable incidents A top priority for our business is the health Our ultimate aim Year Reportable incidents is zero RIDDOR 2013 14 3 and safety of our colleagues, and those 2012 13 5 incidents.
This is who may be affected by our activities.
RIDDOR accident frequency rate Accident frequency rate RIDDOR Year accidents hours worked x 100,000 2013 14 0.3 2012 13 0.4 2011 12 0.4 2010 11 0.4 2009 10 0.5 2008 09 0.6 We have a strong performance in Bringing together all of the above Wind farm health and safety health and safety, resulting from our initiatives, our health and safety New challenges and solutions very high standards and relentless strategy is based on a foundation of The growth of our wind portfolio focus.
We continue working towards strong policy.
Given the importance represents a good opportunity to our target of reaching the UK we place on HS&E, we operate clear apply our health and safety strategy all-industries average.
Our ultimate accountabilities throughout the to new types of sites.
This allows us 1 aim is zero RIDDOR incidents.
This is Group, with ongoing training and to learn about and contribute to best a challenging objective that we incentives, and the integration of practice in the wind sector.
health and safety as a key aspect of our corporate culture.
With an average height of over 80 So far, our achievements in this area metres and high voltage electricity, have been recognised by expert We are committed to ongoing wind turbines represent a number of organisations.
We were awarded the dialogue with employees on health serious hazards, such as falling from Royal Society for the Prevention of and safety in their everyday work.
This Accidents RoSPA Gold standard for Colleagues from across the business reinforces the need for a constant the sixth year running, and the British have the opportunity to provide focus on health and safety.
To ensure Safety Councils International Safety feedback and ideas through the that anyone working on the turbines Award for the seventh year in a row.
is protected from these risks, we Comments from this committee are follow the wind industrys Wind addressed during regular Turbine Safety Rules.
1 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 03 54 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 55 03 Case study Fundraising through near-miss reporting Historically Infinis was no exception, By increasingly reporting near so in 2008 we launched our misses, our colleagues contribute Health & safety charitable initiative to encourage to improving health and safety by Health and safety is a top near-miss reporting.
For each providing opportunities to learn and 50% near-miss reported we have been prevent accidents.
Many near-miss priority for everyone at Infinis.
reports require a number of actions 590 of funds raised We are delighted by the schemes to eliminate the risk and these are That is why we put great Near-miss reports in success.
Since the initiative was often required across multiple sites through the initiative 2013 14 since the launch launched, the number of near misses so thousands of potential problems effort into finding new and will go to our Charity reported has increased more than have been addressed through of our charity scheme 14-fold from 42 incidents reported this initiative.
of the Year innovative ways to improve the year before the launch of the charity scheme to 590 in 2013 14.
Since the scheme started in 2008 Health & safety As the number of accidents has over 60,000 has been raised for health and safety.
progressively fallen over the charity as a result of our commitment corresponding period we are to donate 25 for each near miss confident that the rise in near-miss reported.
This year 50% of funds 60k Although it is widely recognised that learning lessons reports represents an improvement raised through the initiative will go in reporting rather than a decline in to our Charity of the Year, the Over 60,000 has been from things that nearly go wrong is key to preventing safety standards.
donated to charity accidents, most organisations struggle to capture The remaining 50% will be through our commitment information on these near-misses.
donated to charities and other good causes nominated by to donate 25 for each employees and approved by near miss reported the staff Charity Committee.
