03 56 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 57 03 The environment In the year ended 31 March 2014, we 1 produced 5.7% of the UKs renewable electricity, and exported 1,871 GWh from LFG, providing a positive impact on the environment.
We achieved this through our core business, making responsibility for environmental issues and tackling climate change a line management responsibility Our environmental management also transforms methane into less b.
Managing our wind farms with ultimate responsibility sitting with the framework, illustrated below, harmful carbon dioxide.
environmental impact provides a sound foundation to drive We have a rigorous and Chief Executive.
our environmental performance and Approximately 5% of the electricity comprehensive approach to ensures continuous improvement we generate is used to power our assessing the potential impact of across our operations.
We use our onshore wind farms, both on fossil fuel diesel and petrol in the communities and the environment.
Infinis environmental vehicles we use to travel to and from Our development activities have management framework our sites.
focused on onshore wind farms in As our operations have moved into particular, as they provide local, new technologies, we have Environmental impact: wind distributed generation of power progressively learned to manage Our wind turbines use a system of with good levels of cost efficiency.
new and emerging environmental rotor blades facing into the wind.
This section provides When wind is blowing at locationengagement we are able to make details of our environmental impacts specific thresholds, the spinning responsible decisions about the sites and performance across our three blades drive a shaft and activate an locations and environmental impacts.
areas of operation: LFG, wind electrical generator.
Our 16 wind On our existing sites, and new and hydro.
farms include 140 turbines, producing developments, we work with partners enough electricity to power over and experts to ensure that we do not Environmental impact: LFG 120,000 homes annually.
have unacceptable negative impacts Landfill gas predominantly consists on wildlife e. g. fish, birds, reptiles, of methane 60% and carbon dioxide a.
Carbon footprint and bats or other mammals or on 35%.
Methane is 21 times more Harnessing the power of wind to other aspects of the environment.
harmful than carbon dioxide CO as create energy is one of the cleanest 2 a greenhouse gas.
At Infinis, we are and most sustainable methods of able to generate electricity by electricity generation.
Very minor converting methane and atmospheric greenhouse gas emissions are oxygen into carbon dioxide and water associated with servicing and through combustion, thereby maintenance requirements and not preventing methane generated by the energy production itself.
The only landfills from entering the significant carbon impact of this atmosphere.
Through this we avoid energy source comes from the the release of half a million tonnes of construction and transportation of methane, which in terms of global turbines, which we call embedded warming potential is equivalent to energy.
This embedded energy in a 1 11 million tonnes of CO. On a few wind farm may typically be paid back 2 sites where electricity generation is in CO savings within the first year of 2 not viable, we carry out flaring, which its 25 year design lifespan.
1 O fgem Renewables and CHP Register MWh generated in 2013 latest available figures 1 The numbers are based on January to December 2013, not the compliance period, which C alculated by Infinis based on the amount of methane captured then destroyed and the amount of renewable electricity generated runs from April to March assuming that it displaces generation of average carbon intensity from the electricity grid 03 58 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 59 03 The environment continued 1 Operational carbon footprint 2013 14 2 Scope Type Tonnes of CO equivalent 2 Scope 1 Road mileage for our 1,625 company vehicles Environmental impact: hydro Infinis climate impact, 12 months Waste Scope 2 Electricity we purchase to run our 4,952 All of our hydro schemes are to 31 March 2014 Our operations generate relatively little business offices and sites relatively small scale 0.4 to 4.6 MW Our contribution to the reduction in waste and we continue to strive to Scope 3 Road mileage in employee owned 377 and we have actively searched for UK greenhouse gas emissions has reduce, reuse or recycle the key waste cars on company business sites where hydro development two main components: streams we do generate, such as Scope 3 Business travel e. g. flights 53 would have little or no environmental lubricating oil, engine parts and Total 7,007 impact.
Operational carbon footprint general office waste.
Our most of schemes: In 2013 14, our gross operational significant category of waste is carbon footprint was 7,007 tonnes lubricating oil.
Ensuring that we Year CO equivalent emission per kWh generated grams 2 1 1.
Those located on water supply of CO equivalent.
dispose of it responsibly is our main 2 2013 14 2.6 reservoirs operated by water focus on waste.
While we do what we companies.
Positive climate impact can to reduce the use of this oil we 2012 13 3.1 when water is released by the water In 2012, through our LFG operations, used 2.8 million litres last year 2011 12 3.1 utility to provide drinking water or we prevented the release into the compared to 3.0 million litres the year 2010 11 3.2 river compensation flow.
The atmosphere of half a million tonnes before and 3.2 million the year before operation of the hydro asset has of methane equivalent to 11 million that, a minimum level of lubricating 2009 10 4.3 no adverse environmental impact.
Using only small oil is required to ensure the 2 2008 09 5.0 amounts of energy ourselves, we performance and efficiency of our 2.
Those located on weirs on major estimate the net climate impact from landfill gas engines.
watercourses which divert the flow the operation of our business is around the weir.
The operation of therefore positive by approximately After use, we sell our lubricating oil these hydro assets needs to be 11 million tonnes of CO equivalent.
to a specialist company which, after 2 undertaken in a manner that ensures processing, sells the majority of it as a there is no adverse environmental In order to facilitate meaningful lower grade lubricating oil.
On one site this is achieved comparisons over time for a growing being used for fuel by a third party.
Water consumption Managing our environmental impact 4.
Meeting rooms with telephone through the operation of a fish pass business, carbon emissions have also Over a number of years we have The majority of our water use is for We have also undertaken a conference and internet meeting and acoustic screen to keep fish away been expressed per unit of electricity worked closely with oil suppliers to ancillary facilities and our water number of initiatives to save equipment as an alternative to from the turbines.
production, and our performance is develop optimum oil blends for the footprint is very small.
All our hydro energy internally in our business travel.
harsh conditions within a landfill gas schemes are non-consumptive: commercial operations, including: is increasingly used for hosting 3.
Those involved in the abstraction engine.
As a result, our oil use that is, they discharge the water meetings between London, and piping of water from mountain Since 2008 09 we have progressively efficiency and engine reliability have used back into the original water 1.
Company cars with the lowest Edinburgh and our Head Office streams to turbines approximately driven down the carbon intensity of improved along with our related body, into the same reach of the Vehicle Excise Duty VED bands, in Northampton: and 1 km downhill before it is returned to our operations measured as CO environmental performance.
We have river, and do not affect the quality which we started providing in 2007: 2 the streams.
These schemes result in equivalent emissions per kWh also piloted and adopted a system to of the water at all.
Recycling and shredding facilities reduced flow along sections of the generated and we intend to continue clean and reuse the oil in our 2.
On-site campaigns to promote have been installed in our streams.
We have careful controls to do this through expansion of our transformers when it does not meet energy savings and employee Northampton HQ, along with to ensure that flows are never generating capacity and improved our required technical specifications, involvement throughout the business, employee-awareness campaigns reduced to levels that impact the operational efficiency.
Over the next rather than dispose of it.
Innovations which have helped reduce our energy to promote the facilities.
Over the next five streams ecology.
five years we have targeted reducing like this are essential to reducing our consumption by 10% since 2009: years we have the carbon intensity of our operations overall environmental impact.
Through our state of the art Logistics Infinis role in climate by a further 25%.
Computerised vehicle tracking Centre we manage operations and targeted reducing change mitigation which has optimised the efficiency of environmental compliance across the carbon intensity We are proud to be one of the few UK fleet journeys and ensured the 147 sites on a 24 7 basis.
companies with a net positive impact nearest available technicians are sent of our operations by against the causes of climate change.
1 W e have reported on the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
Our calculations reflect all our business operations except that emissions associated with three 1 W e offset much of our operational impact by not claiming ROCs equivalent to the amount of electricity imported.
This results in a net operational offices, where services are provided by others, are regarded as fide minimis and have not been included 2 carbon footprint of 2,054 tonnes of CO equivalent in 2013 14 Scope 1, 2 and 3 are as defined in the international accepted Greenhouse Gas Protocol www.
