P I H H T S C N R A Y E E E M T R N E I T G R R A U N G A O R N P U G E U L N M E U I O E G F Y M A G O R N L O E P I V N M C E E A L E M R E S P W E O A N N E G S S N L V T I E O I B E R B L R O G A R E STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY erhaps more than any other industry, the A ll Informa businesses have one social and environmental impacts of media thing in common: they deliver are unique.
At Informa, we are fully aware P ofthis.
We are focused on delivering a specialist knowledge and intelligence.
fewkey priorities well, rather than trying While the delivery channels and tomanage every impact that affects us andour stakeholders.
This necessitates types of content vary across our adynamic, careful consideration of what our key impacts product portfolio, the one thing we areand how we prioritise.
We liaise closely with our Informa colleagues, sector peers and communities to do just that.
cannot compromise on is integrity.
Ultimately, we get measured by what we do, not what we say, hence the name of our sustainability programme, LouderthanWords.
We have a framework in place to guide our sustainability management and performance reporting.
Our biggest impactsrelate to the content we provide: our ability to deliverknowledge that is professionally produced, rigorously researched and properly disseminated.
Our broader sustainability programme is then about supporting the deliveryof that content, by recruiting and developing our people, managing resources efficiently and supporting thewidercommunity in which we operate.
This broader programme covers the issues we have in common withothersectors.
In 2014, the business as a whole, and the Sustainability functioninparticular, underwent some important changes.
Louder thanWords, previously managed within Human Resources, nowsits with the Director of Investor Relations, Corporate Communications and Brand, reporting into the GroupChief Executive.
This gives us further reach into the business and brings us right into the core decision-making process.
Wenowhave a secure platform from which we can scale oursustainability activities, which we will continue to buildonin2015.
BUILDING TRUST IN OUR PRODUCTS All Informa businesses have one thing in common: they deliverspecialist knowledge and intelligence.
While the OUR deliverychannels and types of content vary across our product CONTENT portfolio, the one thing we cannot compromise on is integrity.
We invest significant resources in maintaining trust in a digital age, working with partners such as the Committee on Publication Ethics COPE and Sense About Science.
Academic Publishing continues to run rigorous peer review O and screening processes while using the latest technology todetect and act on plagiarism.
Our Business Intelligence Division operates an editorial and content code, to which all editorial staff must adhere.
Our event production process is strongly research-driven and some of our major events employ independent advisory boards to champion original content.
Themost recent assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability ENSURING THE HIGHEST QUALITY CONTENT Indices DJSI gave us the maximum score of 100 for our MAPPING THE IMPACT OF OUR CONTENT ON SOCIETY PROVIDING THE MOST ACCESSIBLE AND INNOVATIVE DELIVERY PLATFORMS approach to ensuring independence of content.
com 66 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 L Y E S U I B D M N U U R U P P Y A M P - C I C L T N E T Y I N O C H N T A I N D E E C N E G C O N U L I I R S T P E I O N U B O T G L O O L M E C E O E P W D R E E R F STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS PICTURE COURTESY OF NEIL R. COULTER INNOVATING OUR FORMATS Some60% of our book titles are now available as ebooks, Informa continues to develop our open access OA publishing upfrom 55% in 2013.
The unifying aim for 2015 and beyond istocontinue to createrelevant and highly valued customer capabilities, with 2014 marking a step-change in the right direction.
Virtually all of our journals offer an OA option and experiences with ourproducts.
wemore than doubled the number of paid articles we publish EXPANDING OUR REACH underOA schemes, up from 693 to 1,418 compared with 2013.
Academic Publishing is the lifeblood of the research ecosystem, Cogent OA was created in 2013, a dedicated OA publisher creating social and economic progress for society and individuals.
benefiting from the resources and experiences of Taylor & Francis We are not ashamed to say that it is within our commercial but otherwise operating autonomously.
During the year, Cogent interest to bring the developing world on stream inthe global OA launched 14 new OA journals, covering every major academic research circuit, even if this means making our content available research area, while also spearheading other innovations in for free or at reduced rates.
To this effect, weare involved in scholarly communications.
We embrace OA as a strategic several initiatives, including Research4Life, International Network opportunity and have dedicated considerable resources to for the Availability of Scientific Publications INASP and our own understanding our stakeholders in this area.
Almost 8,000 STAR programme, with special terms forauthors and researchers researchers from around the world responded to the 2014 Taylor from developing countries.
Our aimis two-fold: to increase the & Francis Open Access Survey, giving their views on everything number of article submissions from developing countries and from the benefits of OA to licence preferences.
Ofthe 74,864 articles we accepted We have continued our migration towards digital formats.
Our in 2014, 20% came from developing countries.
Business Intelligence Division has continued to work closely However, we are not just focusing our efforts in the developing with customers to determine the optimal formats for delivery world.
In 2014, we piloted Access to Research, an initiative to ona product-by-product basis and consequently ceased give free access to a wide range of academic articles in public printdelivery for the Health Insurance magazine, a number of libraries across the UK.
We did this because we wanted to Agriculture Food titles and Lloyds List in 2014.
In January 2014 provide small businesses, independent researchers and Business Intelligence organised the Digital Transformation interested members of the public access to our research.
conference, an internal conference todrive this and to help employees think as digitally and creatively as possible.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 67 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS Absolute Intensity achievement 2014 intensity achievement 2014 tonnes 2013 tonnes to date figure tonnes to date 1 CO e CO e 2014 vs 2013 CO e employee 2014 vs 2013 2 2 2 Scope 1 Gas, fuel and car mileage 1,190.37 1,285.21 94.84 Scope 2 Electricity and steam 7,670.44 8,466.66 796.22 Total Scope 1 and 2 8,860.81 9,751.87 891.06 1.34 0.16 1 2013 data restated due to receipt of more accurate site energy data.
MAKING THE MOST OF OUR PEOPLE Workplace wellness is fundamental to allowing employees to The nature of our content is as dynamic as the communities contribute their best.
In 2014, all of our UK-based HR managers weserve.
The insight, intelligence and innovation that go into received training on how to manage mental health issues at work.
We also ran a Mental Health at Work awareness day ourmarket leading products require us to recruit, retain and develop the best employees.
within our Business Intelligence Division.
For the second year running, 100 teams from across the world swam, cycled, ran Freedom to succeed remains a defining principle of our and took part in numerous other sports during our February workplace.
We pride ourselves in maintaining an entrepreneurial Fitness Challenge.
Lastly, 2014 saw the second instalment of mind-set and minimising bureaucracy.
In 2014 we launched 21 Days of Nutrition, helping our employees make the best Invent, an event bringing together 50 of Informas leaders and dietary choices.
future leaders from Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & As a business, we consider diversity a commercial imperative.
Networking to generate innovative new business ideas.
We aimto develop Invent into an annual event, involving leaders In2015, HR managers in Academic Publishing will be given from all of our Divisions.
unconscious bias training to develop an inclusive workplace andto ensure we recruit from the widest talent pool available.
2014 saw the wider implementation of Academic Publishings Global Development Programme, a leadership programme OUR OPERATIONAL IMPACTS formanagers based on individual capability assessments.
Our main environmental impact relates to the greenhouse Themodel has been very successful and leadership gas GHG emissions we cause.
GHG emissions contribute to development will be a Group focus area for 2015.
In response, we seek to monitor and minimise alsolaunch a graduate programme, the Informa Fellowship our energy usage.
With over 120 offices in 25 countries, this Scheme, to findand recruit leaders of tomorrow.
Our focus is on reducing emissions from thescheme willgain exposure across the Group, including the bigger offices where we control the energy bill.
our target is to decrease the emissions from 10 of our biggest offices by 10% by the end of 2015.
We measure our employees on outcomes rather than input.
Most of our businesses offer flexible working arrangements PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS anda significant business within our Business Intelligence We support the principles laid out in the Universal Declaration Division received a commendation at the 2014 Top Employers ofHuman Rights and continue to assess the impacts we have for Working Families Awards.
on communities and individuals both through our direct operations and indirectly.
Informa Academy, our in-house learning source, launched bite-sized online digital and social tutorials to enable staff Our human rights impacts within our supply chain are globally to enhance their digital skills at any time.
Expert managedthrough the publishing industry initiative PRELIMS trainerssupported colleagues to decode how new concepts Publishers Resolution for Ethical International Manufacturing and methods could be applied to enhance performance and Standards, acollaboration between 12 major publishers.
In2014, the members of PRELIMS further strengthened the www.
com 68 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GROUP-WIDE GENDER RATIOS INFOBOT CAMPAIGN: 7 78% Directors In 2014, the Group 2 22% launched a Group-wide, 39 70% multi-language Senior initiative to raise managers 17 30% awareness of the risks and importance 2,829 43% of information Employees security.
INVESTING IN supplier code ofconduct to include the broader environmental OPEN ACCESS: impact of the print supply chain.
The code now covers the potential impacts on workers and the communities surrounding In 2014, Cogent OA continued to expand print production facilities.
The plan for 2015 is to launch an its open access environmental assessment process to monitor performance journal offering against the newcode.
with 18 journals now accepting The right to privacy is business critical to us.
store around 30 million customer and prospect records, not to mention employee, supplier and business partner information.
During 2014, Informa welcomed its new information protection ambassador, Infobot.
Infobot is the face of our programme to keep information safe and respect the privacy of our employees, customers and business partners.
We are committed to handling personal information responsiblyand in compliance with all relevant privacy and dataprotection laws.
Infobot marks the second phase of theroll-out of theGlobal Information Protection Governance andCompliance Framework, and is rapidly becoming a knowncharacter to all Informa employees.
Our viewis that privacy is as much a social as a legal challenge.
Informa has many different businesses and we recognise that each of these has their own specific human rights impacts.
INFORMA In2015, we will undertake a detailed human rights impact SUSTAINABILITY: assessment by Division to better understand those As a media company, potentialimpacts.
our biggest impacts relate to the content FIND OUT MORE we provide: our ability to deliver For more details on how we have progressed against our knowledge that strategy and our plans for the future, please have a look at: is professionally www.
com sustainability produced, rigorously researched STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE and properly GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE disseminated.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 69
