IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate Governance continued Corporate Responsibility Committee Report Committee membership and attendance 1 Members Attendance Jennifer Laing Chairman 3 3 Luke Mayhew 3 3 Dale Morrison 3 3 Richard Solomons 3 3 Ying Yeh 3 3 Total meetings held 3 Ensuring meaningful progress against 1 For full biographies see pages 57 to 59. our five-year targets will remain a key The Heads of Corporate Responsibility and the Chairman of the focus of the Committee.
Board also attend the meetings.
Dear Shareholder Communication and awareness Evaluating the Responsible Business Communication Plan Roles and responsibilities for 2014 and the results of the Employee Engagement survey, The Committee advises the Board on the Groups corporate which had included questions in respect of the awareness and responsibility objectives and strategy, its approach to sustainable impact of our core corporate responsibility programmes.
development, and ensures that IHGs responsible business Responsible business activities continue to drive very high priorities deliver against our core purpose, Great Hotels levels of pride in our employees, with 92 per cent of respondents Guests Love.
saying they felt more positive about IHG as a result of corporate Our role and responsibilities are set out in our terms of reference responsibility programmes.
ToR, which are reviewed annually and no changes were made Considering methods to raise the levels of awareness and for 2015.
The ToR are available on the Companys website at adoption of our corporate responsibility programmes in www.
com investors under corporate governance franchised hotels, such as our IHG Race Around the World event.
committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
Considering our corporate responsibility initiatives in the context of our broader responsible business practices and Governance endorsing plans to have a broader IHG Responsible Business All members have the experience and expertise necessary to meet Report for 2014 published in 2015. the Committees responsibilities and a majority of the Committee members are Non-Executive Directors, as required under the ToR.
What did the Committee consider in 2014 During the year, the Committees key activities included: Targets and core programmes Continually monitoring progress against our five-year targets 2013-2017 see page 33 and www.
Receiving progress updates on the key achievements in 2014 across the three core corporate responsibility programmes: IHG Green Engage, IHG Academy and IHG Shelter in a Storm, The Committee, along with our Corporate Responsibility team and the rest of the Board, also took part in an IHG Race Around the World event in Hyde Park in London, a fundraising event including an in-depth case study of an IHG Academy set up by in support of, and building awareness for, IHG Shelter in a Storm.
a franchised hotel, Holiday Inn Stoke On Trent, and in-depth Our priorities for 2015 reports on IHG Shelter in a Storm.
During 2015, our priorities will be to: i continue to support IHG Inviting external speakers to the meetings to explore key topics, to ensure meaningful progress on our five-year corporate including a presentation from CARE on its strategic relationship responsibility targets: ii further embed responsible business with IHG, and an overview of the landscape of responsible in the IHG brand and help to deliver external communications to business by the Chief Executive of Business in the Community.
support this: and iii further extend the success of IHG Shelter in Discussing the Groups performance against the 2014 delivery a Storm by increasing IHGs disaster preparedness capabilities plan and setting 2015 priorities.
and developing links with humanitarian agencies to grow IHGs Reviewing proposals for implementing and applying a brand disaster relief capabilities.
standard in respect of IHG Green Engage for all hotels in the IHG System see page 33.
Jennifer Laing, Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman 16 February 2015 68
