32 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY IS AT THE FOREFRONT OF OUR DECISION MAKING AS WE MANAGE RISKS AND REALISE OPPORTUNITIES FOR SUSTAINABLE AND PROFITABLE GROWTH.
TIM HAYWOOD Group Finance Director & Head of Sustainability In 2013 we launched SustainAbilities, a single, unified plan first to showcase this thinking.
Our strategy and business model to embed sustainability in every aspect of how we operate.
was redrawn to recognise not only financial performance but SustainAbilities recognises that a business must be sustainable also non-financial factors what we call the capitals social, to be successful, and that financial success depends on a knowledge, natural and financial.
This enabled us to articulate broad range of factors: the strength of our reputation, our how these are at the heart of our business.
relationship with our employees, customers and communities, MEASURING NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE and how we conduct our operations.
Our decision making needs to take account of these to ensure we have firm While measuring financial performance is a well-established part foundations in place for future growth.
Sustainability can of our annual financial reporting process, to measure these nonno longer be viewed as an optional extra or compliancefinancial capitals requires a new approach and a broader set of driven corporate governance, but fundamental good business data.
To achieve this we have designed, built and implemented sense, building strong business relationships, reducing waste, a new IT system, called Insight, which has enabled us to source minimising energy consumption, investing in skills, reducing data from across the business to assess progress against the risk and giving confidence to customers.
SustainAbilities is our ambitious, Group-wide plan setting out Set out here are the first results from our SustainAbilities Plan.
five outcomes, 15 goals and 48 targets over the period 2013 Covering the year ended 31 December 2014, compared with to 2020.
It is much more than a corporate social responsibility our baseline 2013 year, they represent significant effort in the plan, rather a strategy which is embedded into our daily collection and collation of over 175,000 items of data, and activities and one which puts sustainability at the forefront of the implementation of numerous site-level and Group-wide our decision making, managing risks and realising opportunities initiatives to drive improvement and behavioural change in the for sustainable and profitable growth.
More detailed analysis of our progress against the SustainAbilities Plan will be available in our 2015 Progress It was for this reason that Interserve participated in the Report which will be published later in the year.
International Integrated Reporting Councils IIRC Pilot Programme and, in 2013, our Annual Report was one of the While 2013 was a baseline year, where we identified and captured relevant data to establish the benchmarks for our future performance, 2014 has been the first year of truly THE FOUR CAPITALS measurable, comparable progress towards our goals.
During Socialcapital the contribution to communities, local our review of data we discovered a number of imperfections employment, wellbeing, networks and interactions that and omissions in our original 2013 baseline, which we have enable societies to function and thrive consequently corrected.
We have also amended the baselines K nowledgecapital the know-how, skills, capabilities, to reflect the transformational impact of our acquisitions innovation and experience possessed by society and during the year.
We now believe that we have meaningful organisations comparatives and a robust baseline against which to measure Naturalcapital everything we rely on from the natural our progress.
As our confidence in the completeness and environment to provide a resource or service, e. g. land, accuracy of our various measures increases, we will move air and water towards external assurance of our reported progress.
Financialcapital the money used to generate an income or invested, for the purpose of economic growth OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 33 ITEMS OF DATA COLLECTED TO MEASURE OUR PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS SET OUT IN, 175 000 OUR SUSTAINABILITIES PLAN view of the essentials for a sustainable business, and we believe that overcoming the deteriorating public view of business will CHALLENGES OF DATA be important to our future success.
The results of the research, published in the first quarter of 2015, are being used to shape our Gathering data from across the Group where existing discussions with policy makers and in how we communicate more systems do not capture this widely with our various audiences.
Developing a Capitals scorecard, applicable across the business and our wide range of activity Defining and comparing non-financial outcomes there are few precedents for this kind of work Helping our stakeholders to understand the merit of non-financial outcomes, as well as financial ones STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Much of the focus during the inaugural year of SustainAbilities was to establish it across the business, ensuring that its vision, objectives and targets are understood and supported by our people.
We have increased awareness and engagement of the Plan with an e-learning package completed by 4,500 people and managers presentations to help our people understand how to incorporate its outcomes into their roles.
Source: Interserve Ipsos Mori research February 2015 In parallel with our internal engagement activity, SustainAbilities - and the vision, values and objectives that underpin it has We work closely with a wide range of stakeholder groups and organisations.
The aim is to both share our experiences and provided a platform for us to engage with our peers, industry, the political establishment and the wider public to address common best practice through these channels and to help support, influence and shape policy development in a meaningful way.
issues, identify opportunities to collaborate and achieve positive benefits.
The role of big business in supporting communities, Our membership and collaboration with organisations such as the Business Services Association BSA, UK Contractors Group providing jobs and raising skills levels is one which is increasingly in the spotlight.
In 2014 we commissioned some major research UKCG and the Confederation of British Industry CBI allows for participation in a wider dialogue on issues affecting business and to examine public attitudes towards big business in society.
The research, undertaken in the autumn of 2014, explored the publics current perception of business, comparing this with This approach to partnership extends to our working membership of parliamentary groupings the All Party Group on Corporate what they believed its role should be.
The results demonstrate a widespread mistrust of, and cynicism toward business, with the Responsibility and the All Party Group for Skills & Employment, and think tanks including Policy Exchange and the Institute of drive for profit and shareholder reward perceived as significantly more important to business than any wider concerns for the Public Policy Research.
We also work closely with bodies such as Business in the Community, Social Enterprise UK and Groundwork environment, job creation, social cohesion and investment in skills and training for the future.
This is clearly at odds with our UK on issues related to sustainability and good business practice.
34 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Our work on SustainAbilities has also been recognised by In 2014, we convened the UKs first Social Value Summit industry and during 2014 we were awarded the British in partnership with Social Enterprise UK to share and Quality Foundations Sustainable Future Achievement Award learn from existing good practice across sectors in for demonstrating how our policies are embedded across relation to social value.
the organisation and have improved the sustainability of our In February 2015 we hosted the second Social Value business practices.
In addition we were Highly Commended in Summit to examine progress, where we launched our the Finance for the Future Awards recognising the role of Social Value Mapping Tool.
finance in supporting sustainable business.
We have also maintained our listing in the FTSE4Good Index.
Our work to support social capital includes adopting new business models.
We extended our network of relationships with thirdSOCIAL CAPITAL sector organisations by forming Purple Futures, an Interserve-led partnership for the provision of probation and rehabilitation As a major provider of public services and facilities, we are services in five areas of the UK Cheshire and Greater Manchester: dedicated to supporting public agencies, the third sector and Hampshire: Humberside, Lincolnshire and West Yorkshire: delivering public services directly to the citizen while having Merseyside and West Yorkshire.
This new business model will see a positive impact on the communities we interact with.
Public us working in partnership with the housing charity Shelter: the interest, therefore, is at the heart of what we do.
We are drug and alcohol treatment charity AddAction: P3, the national evidencing this through our commitment to using SMEs, tracking charity providing social inclusion services to people with complex local supply chain spend, setting clear targets on community needs: and 3SC, a social enterprise that will build and manage engagement, increasing the employability skills of young people the voluntary sector supply chain on our behalf.
Where we bring and providing real opportunities for disadvantaged groups.
business expertise and investment capability, our third-sector We are also working with Government to help incorporate partners bring experience in service delivery and community sustainability targets such as these into public procurement engagement.
We manage the financial risks of the contracts, through the implementation of the Social Value Act.
Our activity allowing our partners to benefit from the stable cash flow a has also focused on raising awareness of the importance of company of our size and scale can provide.
We have created considering social capital in decision making, understanding and published a Charity Charter which sets out what we can methods for measuring social capital and opportunities to have offer our Volunteering, Community and Social Enterprise VCSE a positive impact.
partners and, in turn, what we expect from them.
CASE STUDY SOCIAL VALUE MAPPING WE BELIEVE OUR SUCCESS CAN ONLY BE JUDGED IF SEEN IN THE CONTEXT OF THE LOCATIONS WHERE WE OPERATE AND THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS THAT EXIST DURING OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
Our Social Value Mapping Tool has been developed to combine data from our business systems with publicly available data to create a contextual picture or map of the impacts we have.
We are bringing anonymous spatial data on payroll and supplier spend, employee skills, skills progression, education standards, together with public socio-economic data sets on multiple indices of deprivations, reported crime, education standards and house price values.
In 2014 we developed the proof of concept for the tool and in 2015 we will be looking to roll it out to key parts of the UK business and begin to develop its predictive capability.
