Sustainability Our approach to sustainable business Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing Sustainable development is shaping on our customers and how we deliver our projects safely our business every day.
It is at the heart and sustainably.
We believe sustainable business is about integrating social, environmental and economic concerns into core values and operations in a transparent and accountable manner.
Greenhouse gas emissions Our customers face increasing legislative and other pressures 2014 2013 CO e CO e 2 2 to operate in a sustainable way and we aim to support them, emissions in emissions in Year ended 30 September tonnes tonnes working with our partners and supply chain.
We are working with them to provide innovative solutions to minimize resource Combustion of fuel and operation use water, materials, energy, consider the long-term social of facilities 24,126 28,863 requirements on projects utilising local workforce and Electricity, heat, steam and cooling suppliers, supporting the local communities in which we work, purchased for own use 34,397 32,226 etc.
and ensuring the delivery of safe projects inherent within the design, on site during delivery and onwards during the Per employee 2.16 2.13 operation.
Per 1m revenue 15.74 15.37 In each of these areas, we utilise our internal programmes and Based on AMEC revenue only for 2014. tools, along with our technical and scientific expertise, to ensure consistent excellence.
The figures show scope one and two emissions from our global business where we have operational control.
For us, sustainability is integrated into the very core of our business and within our decision making processes.
We want The 12-month period to 30 September the carbon reporting year, to be recognised as a leader in sustainable business practice, rather than the calendar year, has been used.
This ensures actual continually validating our social license to operate by ensuring data can be reported, even for those regions where energy fuel employees behaviours and actions are in line with our values.
usage is more difficult to access.
By reducing reliance on estimation, In 2015 we will be developing and launching a new sustainability a more accurate footprint can be provided in a timely manner.
strategy for Amec Foster Wheeler which will support the In our figures, we use accepted methods of calculation based on the business and our customers in delivering in these areas.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Further details can be found in the 2014 sustainability report, Standard revised edition.
We first adopted our operational to be issued via the new microsite in May 2015. control approach in 2001.
We have used national conversion factor Additionally: guidelines e. g. Environmental Protection Agency, Environment Canada where appropriate.
We have restated our reported 2013 X we continue to support SOS Children as our global strategic carbon data following the discovery that some project diesel fuel use charity and during 2014 our employees held events to raise had not been included in the figure previously stated and through monies to fully fund a water project in the SOS village in improvement in company car data reporting within the Americas.
Callao, Peru, to which the Company donated 69,069: Our figures for 2013 and 2014 are based on the AMEC business, X we provided expertise to the International Federation of as the Amec Foster Wheeler business did not come into effect Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, designing transitional until after the carbon reporting year had ended.
It is our intention shelters to be used in disaster situations: to report carbon emissions for the whole Amec Foster Wheeler X we made additional payments of 384,694 to 274 charities, business for the 2015 carbon reporting year and beyond and for which employees raised 530,591: launch a real-time microsite for public accountability.
X our total carbon footprint reduced by 3,579 tonnes in 2014 to 84,154 tonnes in comparison to 2013, however our carbon Carbon emissions 3.2 3.1 3.1 Tonnes CO e per employees, per person remained the same over the period: 2 scope 1, 2 and 3 X AMEC was awarded industry leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 2014 15 and were given a gold class sustainability award by RobecoSAM Global Sustainability Index: and X following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, we began an extensive stakeholder engagement process to identify and 2012 2013 2014 prioritise the most material sustainability issues on which we will focus our attention moving forwards.
This results of this Scope 1 emissions all direct greenhouse gas emissions from owned exercise will form the basis of a new sustainability strategy or controlled sources.
for the business which will be published mid-2015.
Scope 2 emissions indirect greenhouse gas emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3 emissions other indirect emissions, such as transport in vehicles not owned or controlled by the Company.
Amec Foster Wheeler 24 Annual report and accounts 2014
