Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee Dear Shareholder, Our values are fundamental to the way Sainsburys does business, and Jean Tomlin underpin the achievement of the Chairman, Corporate Responsibility andSustainability Committee Companys vision to be the most trusted retailer, where people love to work and shop.
As Chairman of the Boards Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability I am pleased to say that the Companys work across corporate responsibility Committee, I oversee the governance across each of our five values of Best has once again been recognised externally.
In particular, we were listed in for food and health, Sourcing with integrity, Respect for our environment, the2013 Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI review for the seventh Making a positive difference to our community and Agreat place to work, consecutive year and highly ranked in the FTSE4Good Index, which we have aswell as the 20x20 Sustainability Plan, which sets out the 20 commitments been part of since its inception in 2001.
Excellent progress in Respect for our for 2020 across the five values.
environment was recognised by the Companys highest ever ranking in the Carbon Disclosure Project and in a number of awards, including the Energy As part of this, we talk regularly to customers, suppliers, colleagues, Awards for successfully reducing water use by 53 per cent across our stores, and the 2013 Green Economy awards for our progress in our ongoing carbon stakeholders and experts, including non-government organisations and the reduction programme.
Our annual public review of 20x20 took place inNovember, attended by over 180 stakeholders with live debates also hosted Further updates about the teams approach are published at by the Guardian website.
Separately, over the year, Justin and I co-hosted a www.
co. uk responsibility with quarterly updates also given as number of discussions focused on the five values, including an examination part of the Companys broader trading statements.
of the way we better connect our stores to the communities they serve.
This year the Committee also looked in depth at Sourcing with integrity and the teams programme to ensure Sainsburys provides customers with quality products at fair prices, in a way that is better for the farmers, growers, packers, processors, manufacturers and animals, whilst also minimising the Jean Tomlin impact on the environment.
Plans for an independent Sainsburys sustainable Chairman, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability sourcing standard for all key raw materials, both in the UK and globally, were also announced in November.
Committee J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 47 Directors Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee Our 20x20 Sustainability Plan During the year the Committee was chaired by Jean Tomlin, with Justin King In many ways, the commitments encapsulated in our 20x20 Sustainability and Mary Harris as its members.
David Tyler attended each meeting.
It met Plan are not new to Sainsburys.
We have sought throughout our 145-year twice during the year.
Its terms of reference include approval of the Corporate history to lead in matters of business responsibility and sustainability.
Responsibility Report and consideration of the broad Corporate Responsibility Examples of our contribution over the past decade include transforming the and Sustainability Policy, taking into account the Companys desired markets for fairly traded products and sustainable seafood, improving animal corporate responsibility positioning and objectives, related costs and benefits, welfare, supporting British farming, championing community investment and the overall strategic plan, and relevant external and other factors.
These formal sponsorship of the British Athletics and the Paralympics.
Committee meetings were supported by Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability CR&S strategic meetings that were hosted by Jean Tomlin With our 20x20 Sustainability Plan, we formalise our action against our values, andJustin King.
Each meeting is based around one of the five values and as well as recognising the new and changing issues which todays world faces.
keyexternal stakeholders are invited to attend.
During the year five such meetings were held, relating to each of the values, framed within our In developing the plan, in 2011 we undertook a detailed internal auditing 20x20Sustainability Plan which was launched in October2011.
Since its launch, we have continued to listen to ourcustomers, suppliers and opinion formers to ensure we have the most The Committee is supported by an internal governance structure whereby effective agenda, and leverage the knowledge of experts to remain at the members of the Operating Board have responsibility for each of our five forefront of sustainability.
values and sit on the Chief Executives CR&S Steering Group, which meets quarterly and is chaired by Justin King.
The members of the Steering Group We are focused on its delivery, whilst also ensuring we continue to engage are shown below.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the website Our 20x20 Sustainability Plan update was published in November.
J Sainsbury plc Board Corporate David Tyler Responsibility and Chairman Sustainability Committee Established January 2007 meets twice annually Jean Tomlin, Chairman CR&S Steering Group Non-Executive Director Established 2001, meets quarterly Justin King Chairman, Chief Executive CR&S Chairman Health Best for food steering and health group Sarah Warby Marketing Director Sourcing with integrity Sourcing steering Paul Mills-Hicks group Food Commercial Director Respect for our Climate environment change steering John Rogers group Chief Financial officer Making a positive Community difference to our steering community group Roger Burnley Retail and Operations Director A great A great place to work place to work Angie Risley steering Group HR Director group J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 48 Greenhouse gas emissions We have measured our greenhouse gas GHG footprint since 2005 and set ourselves a challenging target to reduce our emissions by 30 per cent by 2020, compared with our baseline and 65 per cent relative to Company growth.
For further information on initiatives to reduce our GHG footprint, please refer to our 20x20 Sustainability Plan available on our external web pages.
GHG emissions tCO e 2 Emission source 2013 14 Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities Scope 1 618,427 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 735,961 Total 1,354,388 Intensity measurement tCO 000 sq ft 61.12 2 In 2013 14, our emissions reduced by over seven per cent.
This is a result of carbon reduction activities across our operations and in particular our programme to replace HFC refrigerants in our fridges and freezers with naturalalternatives.
Intensity ratio In order to express our annual emissions in relation to the growth of our business, we report an emissions intensity measurement, calculated using sales area 000 sqft.
Using this measure, our emissions intensity reduced by 11 per cent in 2013 14.
Methodology We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We have calculated and reported our emissions in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The reporting period is the financial year 2013 14, the same as that covered by the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The boundaries of the GHG inventory are defined using the operational control approach.
In general, the emissions reported are the same as those which would be reported based on a financial central boundary.
Due to the short time between financial year-end and report publication, it was necessary to estimate some gas and electricity consumption data.
Gas and electricity emissions calculations could be subject to minor change.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 49
