30 31 Corporate and Social Responsibility The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to ensure Training and Development is provided across a number of areas: its business is carried out in a way that ensures high standards Number of of environmental and human behaviour.
of attendees co-operation of all employees, the Group endeavours to courses in Length of on each comply with all relevant laws in order to meet that duty and a year course course responsibility wherever it operates.
The major contributions of New Management Induction 19 5 days 20 the Group in this respect are detailed below.
Training Academy 3 12 weeks 22 Junior Management Development 60 4 hours 10 Our Employees Various Management Development 22 1 day 10 The Group is a large equal opportunities employer and a large training organisation with the Groups retail businesses providing direct employment and career development to Chausport and Sprinter operate their own training programmes thousands of people, both in the UK and internationally.
which are more suited to those particular fascias.
The Group employs large numbers of school leavers and university graduates and participates regularly in work experience Equality and Diversity schemes with schools and colleges.
Retail personnel across all The Group is committed to promoting policies which are designed levels within the Groups core UK, Republic of Ireland and to ensure that employees and those who seek to work for the JD France and Spain fascias are encouraged to take ownership Group are treated equally regardless of sex, marital status, creed, of their own careers and to actively seek development colour, race, religion or ethnic origin.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for Training employment by people who are disabled, to continue whenever possible the development of staff who become disabled and The Group recognises that Training and Development for all to provide equal opportunities for the career development levels of personnel is vital in maximising performance levels of disabled employees.
It is also Group policy to provide and also provides a useful mechanism for increasing morale opportunities for the large number of people seeking flexible and retention.
This ensures that knowledge of our differentiated or part time hours.
product offering remains in our stores, thereby enhancing customer service.
A breakdown by gender of the number of employees who were Training for the UK, Republic of Ireland and International stores Directors of the Company, senior managers and other employees is provided by the Groups long-established training function.
as at 1 February 2014, is set out below.
The Training team now includes fascia-specific Training Managers % % for Size?
and Bank, along with training support for Head Office Male Female Total Male Female and the Kingsway Distribution Centre.
PLC board 5 - 5 100 - The training function produces, designs and delivers various Senior managers 87 32 119 73 27 programmes for all fascias including International stores in All employees 8,610 8,405 17,015 51 49 order to ensure operational consistency throughout the Group.
Training received by all retail personnel is quality-controlled Senior Managers is defined as - and measured via the use of electronic assessments.
There are 38 types of electronic assessments across all retail fascias, 1 persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling covering all progression levels within the business.
the activities of the company, or a strategically significant part of the company, other than Company Directors and: 2 any other Directors of subsidiary undertakings.
Strategic Report 30 31 Communication Our Health and Safety Committee meets four times a year allowing every employee the opportunity to raise any safety The number and geographic dispersion of the Groups operating concerns through their nominated representative.
locations make it difficult, but essential, to communicate effectively The Health and Safety team has input into all our new and with employees.
refitted stores from the initial design through to opening.
Communication with retail staff is primarily achieved through the The team conducts its own audit programme to ensure the management in the regional and area operational structures.
highest safety standards during the construction phase of In addition, formal communications informing all employees of all our shop-fit projects.
the financial performance of the Group are issued on a regular The Health and Safety team regularly review the management basis by the Groups Human Resources Department in the form processes we have in place, with the aim of maintaining of Team Briefs.
This department also produces a booklet four our high standards, whilst adapting to business and times a year for distribution within the Groups Head Office and legislative changes.
Targets are set to enable measurement of performance.
We have introduced a regular Q & A forum in which representatives During the year we have seen positive improvements in these of the Group have the opportunity to speak directly with the areas demonstrating the further development of a positive safety Executive Chairman and ask him questions on behalf of their culture within the organisation including: respective departments.
The content of these sessions is Reportable employee accident numbers reduced by 15%.
Number of customer accidents reported decreased by 4%.
Local authority inspection numbers decreased by 16%.
Health and Safety Fire officer inspections numbers decreased by 21%.
We are committed to ensuring a safe environment for all of Enforcement action remained constant.
our employees and customers and actively encourage a Area Manager health and safety performance positive health and safety culture throughout the organisation.
The Group recognises its responsibility for health and safety and there is accountability throughout the various management Environment levels within the business.
Our commitment to Health and Safety The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to manage is best evidenced as follows: the impact that its businesses have on the environment and are The Health and Safety team has been further strengthened committed to carrying out its activities with due consideration in the year to ensure that the procedures already developed for the potential environmental impact both now and in the in the existing fascias are established within the recently future.
We continue to comply with the UK Governments acquired companies.
carbon reduction commitment and have the following as the We have continued to develop a comprehensive induction key areas of focus: and training programme which is regarded as an essential Ensuring efficient use of energy and other materials.
part of our commitment to health and safety.
Targeted safety Maximising the amount of waste which is recycled.
awareness campaigns are run regularly throughout the Ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and codes year and a monthly newsletter ensures that the safety of best practice.
message is communicated effectively throughout the Group.
Strategic Report 32 33 Corporate and Social Responsibility Continued Energy Basic Principals The Groups core business is Retail and it is the Groups aim to give customers an enjoyable retail experience with goods presented attractively in an environment that is both well lit and has a pleasant ambient temperature.
However, the Group accepts that all the businesses within it must be responsible in their energy usage and associated carbon emissions.
This policy applies in all territories.
Carbon Management Programme The Group maintains a Carbon Management Programme CMP which is sponsored by the Group Finance Director and is reviewed regularly.
The objectives of this programme are: Objective Action & Progress 1.
Understand the drivers and timing of usage by continued investment in energy This has now been achieved in over 430 of the Groups sites with ongoing rollout planned in remaining sites.
Combined with the stores where accurate and timely usage smart meters.
data is already received from mandatory half hourly meters, this means that in excess of 95% of the UK and Republic of Ireland electricity consumption and 72% of gas consumption is automatically measured every 30 minutes.
Reduce energy usage in non-trading periods In the period to 1 February 2014, the Group has invested in Building Management Systems in 80 of its highest energy consuming stores in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
The project covers all fascias and is delivering average energy savings of 20% and a payback in less than 12 months.
A further roll out of this technology is planned for 2014.
Reduce energy usage through investment in lighting technology 23 Watt LED lamps are now used as standard in all new shopfits in our retail businesses across Europe.
These lamps reduce the electricity required for retail lighting by 30% compared to the previous 35 Watt conventional lamps and 58% compared to the 70 Watt conventional lamps which were used as standard in 2010.
Reduce energy usage through staff awareness and training Retail staff have a key role to play in the execution of the CMP.
Dedicated training is given at a store level.
Purchase energy competitively from sustainable sources wherever possible The Group has renewed its supply contracts with British Gas UK except Northern Ireland and Airtricity island of Ireland to supply the Groups core businesses with 100% of its electricity requirement from either renewable or other sustainable sources.
Newly acquired businesses are migrated to these contracts when possible.
Ensure all business activities are aware of their impact on energy consumption A multi-disciplined approach to the CMP is adopted with considerable focus also given to reducing usage in the Groups warehouses and offices.
Ensure that the CMP applies to all businesses in all territories The CMP applies not only to existing businesses but also to newly acquired businesses, including those outside of the traditional UK and Republic of Ireland base, where we work closely with the local management after acquisition to identify gaps and implement Group strategies.
Strategic Report 32 33 The following businesses are excluded from the data above as KPIs their contribution is not considered material at this time: The Group is committed to using and subsequently reporting on appropriate KPIs with regards to energy usage.
Accordingly, JD Sports Fashion GmbH the Group can report the following in respect of locations in the ActivInstinct Limited UK and the Republic of Ireland that have been present for the Tiso Group Limited full year both years.
Nicholas Deakins Limited Kukri Sports Limited % Ark Fashion Limited 2014 2013 Change Source Lab Limited Energy Usage Electricity MWh 55,532 57,220 Focus International Limited Energy Usage Natural Gas MWh 1,923 1,522 Topgrade Sportswear Limited Total Energy Use MWh 57,455 58,743 Kooga Rugby Limited Carbon Footprint Tonnes CO2 30,396 31,236 -3 Tessuti Limited Cloggs Online Limited The Group has pledged to reduce its combined energy usage We also report our global greenhouse gas GHG emissions in its like for like businesses by 3% year on year on a basis until which have been calculated based on the GHG Protocol using the end of the current phase of the CRC scheme in 2015. emissions factors from UK government conversion factor This target, and the associated operating standards that drive guidance for the year reported.
The emissions reported this target, apply to all the Groups businesses.
correspond with our financial year and reflect emissions from the leased and controlled assets for which the Group is responsible.
Objectives for the Period to January 2015 Emissions are predominately from electricity use and delivery The Group is committed to investing in the necessary resources vehicle fuel consumption for our UK operations.
to help achieve its targets on reducing carbon emissions, with the following works planned for the year to 31 January 2015: Global GHG emissions for 3 February 2013 to 1 February 2014 Continue to expand the reach of the CMP by working with Emissions From: Tonnes CO2 Equivalent the newly acquired businesses.
Combustion of fuels & operation of facilities i 6,724 Retrofit further stores with the 23 Watt LEDs for retail lighting Purchased electricity, heat, stream & cooling 33,216 thereby further reducing energy consumption and heat gain in the retail environment.
Further investment in the use of building management systems Intensity Measurement ii 33 to allow remote monitoring and control of building services.
Interaction with Pentland Group Plc ii Like for like revenues for businesses that have contributed Under the current rules of the statutory Carbon Reduction full years both years.
Emissions reported normalised to Commitment Energy Efficiency scheme CRC, the Groups per m revenue.
submission to the UK Environment Agency is aggregated with that of Pentland Group Plc who are the Groups ultimate holding company see note 34.
The Group continues to work closely with Pentland Group Plc on ensuring an efficient process with regards to the emissions trading scheme which was introduced in April 2010, as part of the CRC.
Strategic Report 34 35 Corporate and Social Responsibility Continued The use of this material has also been adopted in an additional Recycling 60% of the Groups plastic bags handed out to customers.
Wherever possible, cardboard the major packaging constituent The Group uses paper-based bags rather than plastic bags in is taken back to the Groups distribution centres.
The cardboard its stores in the Republic of Ireland and we are also fully is then baled and passed to recycling businesses for reprocessing.
compliant with the carrier bag charge scheme introduced by the During the year, the amount of cardboard recycled increased to devolved administrations in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
The Group has expanded its use of the Dry Mixed Recycling Ethical Sourcing DMR scheme to all pre-existing stores and businesses in the The Group seeks to provide its customers with high quality UK & Ireland to divert as much waste as possible away from and value merchandise from suppliers who can demonstrate landfill.
This scheme has also been successfully introduced in to compliance with internationally accepted core labour and the newly acquired stores in The Netherlands.
The scheme will ethical standards throughout their supply chain.
These standards be rolled out to other newly acquired businesses as soon as this are based upon the provisions of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI is possible.
In the period to 2 February 2014 we recycled 89% Base Code and specifically cover areas such as wages, working 2013: 87% of our DMR waste with the remainder being used hours, health and safety and the right to freedom of association.
as an energy-from-waste EfW material.
The Group requires all of its suppliers, both existing and new, Our Kingsway Distribution Facility continues to be a zero waste to formally commit to implementing the provisions of the ETI to landfill site.
Base Code throughout their supply chains.
Prior to any orders being placed, all new suppliers are required to complete the In addition to the DMR scheme, there are four other main elements Groups risk assessment form to indicate their degree of to our recycling strategy: compliance to the ETI Base Code.
All existing suppliers are Confidential paper waste is shredded on collection by a also required to conduct this assessment on an annual basis.
This business provides a Certificate of These forms are reviewed by the Groups Compliance team Environmental Accomplishment which states that the and any areas of concern with regard to potential non-compliance shredded paper, which was collected in the year, was the are investigated when visiting the factories concerned.
These reports equivalent of 2,884 trees 2013: 2,078 trees.
This large are shared by the Group in a central base and those travelling increase reflects the fact that we have disposed of increased are encouraged to take all documentation from the base with quantities of confidential waste as we transition our them when visiting the factories so that follow up can be done distribution operations.
Wood, metals and plastics are separated at our main distribution centre.
The Group has engaged Asia Inspections to complete an audit Photocopier and printer toners laser and ink are collected and compliance programme of the Groups current suppliers to and recycled for charity by Environmental Business the ETI Base Code standard.
Asia Inspections is a global quality Products Limited.
and compliance solutions provider which performs factory audits.
Food waste is separated where possible and reused in the In the year to 1 February 2014, 55% of the current supplier production of compost.
base was visited and audited with the results reported to the Group Sourcing and Supply Chain Manager.
Plastic Bags Due to the diverse nature and scope of the supply chain, Approximately 35% of the bags issued by the Groups like for it is not always possible to visit all of the factories directly.
like businesses are high quality drawstring duffle bags, which Where instances of non-compliance are identified from the risk are generally reused by customers many times.
However, assessment forms and the supplier cannot be visited, they are the Group is aware of the environmental impact of plastic bags required to confirm what corrective actions are being undertaken and has sought to minimise any impact through the following to resolve the issue.
These actions will be verified directly by the measures: Groups Compliance team as soon as practically possible on a future visit.
The bags are made from 33% recycled material.
The bags contain an oxo-biodegradable additive, All suppliers are contractually obliged to comply with the which means that they degrade totally over a relatively Groups Conditions of Supply which includes a specific policy on short life span.
Strategic Report 34 35 Our Communities The Group seeks to be involved in the community where it can make an appropriate contribution from its resources and skills base.
In 2011 we undertook a three year commitment to The Christie Hospital to help raise 500,000 for the teenage cancer unit.
In 2014 we achieved the 500,000 through staff fundraising events, Team JD running BUPA Great Manchester run and our successful charity balls.
The funds raised through the partnership will enable The Christie to build and develop the UKs premier young oncology unit, helping to fund vital research into new treatments, provide equipment, counselling, activities for the young patients and support for their families.
Other examples of community engagement include: We sponsored the Once Upon A Smile celebrity football team for 10,000 which play throughout the year at tournaments to raise money for the charity.
Once Upon A Smile was founded in 2011 and is a UK based charity offering a source of support to families who have suffered the loss of a child or parent and have young children from a long term or terminal illness.
We made a donation of 3,000 to Gloves Community Centre in Bolton which was founded by Amir Khan.
We made a donation to The Marina Dalglish Appeal of 3,850 to improve cancer treatment facilities in Liverpool.
We made a donation of 2,500 to Manchester City Football Club in the Community which engages with over 200,000 people of all ages and across all communities over Manchester, Tameside and Stockport.
