OUR PEOPLE JIMMYCHOO IS A DYNAMIC COMMUNITY OF HIGHLY SKILLED PEOPLE THAT HAVE BEEN BROUGHT TOGETHER AROUND A UNIQUE BRAND THAT WE FEEL PASSIONATELY ABOUT FROM BOARD MEMBERS, TO PEOPLE WORKING IN DESIGN, FINANCE, MERCHANDISING, COMMUNICATION, LEGAL, AFTERSALES, HR, STORE PLANNING, REGIONAL MANAGERS TO SALES ASSOCIATES IN STORE, WE ARE ALL WORKING TOWARDS A SHARED VISION, WHICH FORMS THE CORE OF OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY HERITAGE CULTURE TE AMWORK OUR PAST OUR PASSION OUR PEOPLE We respect our entrepreneurial heritage We thrive on talent and passion.
We are No one person or team can do it alone.
andnever forget that our brand began in a agreat place for smart people with an Thebrand is bigger than any individual.
humble shop offering extraordinary service, urgentpassion to build the brand and Wechallenge, align and show a united front.
CRE ATIVIT Y CUSTOMER FOCUS INTEGRIT Y OUR LIFEBLOOD OUR JUDGE OUR VALUES We lead through our creativity whether in There is one version of the truth We are always proud of what we do and designing beautiful product or improving thecustomer is our judge and jury.
We have high service to our stakeholders.
ethical standards and give back to the communities we serve.
CREATING A DIVERSE COMMUNITY The Group is committed to a policy of treating all of its employees We believe that businesses thrive from the sharing of knowledge and and job applicants equally.
No employee or potential employee will experiences.
In order to make the most of the cross fertilisation of receive less favourable treatment or consideration on the grounds of ideas, we employ people from a diverse range of professional and race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or belief, sex, gender cultural backgrounds not only because it is the right thing to do, but reassignment, sexual orientation, age, marital status, civil partnership also because it enhances our work environment and strengthens our status, or disability or will be disadvantaged by any conditions of ability to nurture and grow the business.
employment or requirements of the Company that cannot be justified as necessary on operational grounds.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 36 We have a comprehensive diversity policy which ensures that JimmyChoo is a dynamic environment and it is important to everyone who works at one of our workplaces, whether they are ensure that the views of our employees are taken into account as directly employed by JimmyChoo or not, is protected from direct we change and grow.
We therefore consult at local, regional and andindirect discrimination, harassment or victimisation, whether global levels at an early stage where any changes may impact our deliberate or accidental.
In addition, we commit to ensuring that the employees.
This process is supported by a clear open door policy work environment is suitable for our employees to carry out their with our HR team and a transparent approach, where appropriate, duties, with adjustments to equipment, location and working in the business.
Allemployees are encouraged to come forward practices where necessary.
This consultation has positive results for the long termgrowth of the business, such as the introduction We have put policies in place to ensure that the recruitment process of new management training specifically designed to help our is free from bias and that equal work receives equal pay.
employeesdevelop into the senior managers of tomorrow.
PROMOTION AND TRAINING There should be no discrimination on account of race, colour, In order to help our employees to grow within the business, training nationality, ethnic origin, religion or belief, sex, gender is offered throughout JimmyChoo.
Training and development reassignment, sexual orientation, age, marital status, civil does not stop because someone is pregnant or has childcare partnership status, or disability.
We never assume that such employees are not The Group will appoint, train, develop and promote on the basis interested in promotion.
All employees have personal responsibility for the practical We offer training appropriate to each employees current application of the Groups equal opportunity policy, which extends responsibilities as well as those they need to progress within the to the treatment of employees and clients.
business to achieve their potential.
Training is organised by the Special responsibility for the practical application of the companys company and with external providers at JimmyChoos expense.
equal opportunity policy falls upon all managers and supervisors involved in the recruitment, selection, promotion and training Overall, we employed 1,035 people as at 31 December 2014.
those, 77% 797 were female and 23% 238 were male.
Of our ten The Groups grievance procedure is available to any employee member Executive Management Team, 50% 5 are female and 50% who believes that he she may have been unfairly treated.
Disciplinary action is taken against any employee who isfound to have committed an act of unlawful discrimination.
Discriminatory Last year, 87% of those attending our newly introduced transition conduct will be treated as gross misconduct andmay lead to to management and people management training were female.
introduction of this training was in response to extensive consultation INVOLVING OUR PEOPLE IN THE BUSINESS at many levels in the company, identifying skills gaps and underlying We want all of our employees to be part of JimmyChoos success.
This demonstrates how our business is working to This means not only excelling in their particular role, but also taking ensure everyone has the opportunity to be leaders of the business.
an interest in and influencing outcomes across the business.
We VARIABLE AWARDS dothis through active two way communication, training, individual All employees are incentivised with an element of variable recognition and variable rewards linked to corporate results.
compensation linked to metrics relevant to their role and function.
COMMUNICATION Atretail, this is largely linked to sales commission, whereas in the Our internal communication strategy is designed to ensure that the corporate side of the business, the variable component of pay strategic framework and value creation architecture of the board is is linked to a mix of metrics relating to the companys overall well understood by all employees.
We keep employees up to date performance and their particular role and function.
This blended onthe medium term plans for how we aim to achieve those goals, approach promotes the ethos that everyone at JimmyChoo is aswell as on the day to day progress of the business.
responsible not only for their own role but working together to promote the whole business within the strategic framework.
The Executive Directors present the strategic plan for the year VALUES AWARDS annually to all corporate employees and managers within the retail We invite managers to nominate members of their teams business.
This is supported by regular communication in relation annually to be recognised in front of their peers as people who toorganisational changes in the business and sales data relevant have achieved something exceptional and acted as a role model toeach employees region and responsibilities.
This regular update for our Company Values.
serves to introduce new colleagues as well as provide information onhow we are performing against the strategic framework towards which we are all working.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 37
