80 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Sustainability and Governance continued Our EHS Governance Processes Leadership is from the top ACT PLAN Approval is from Policy and guidance the top from Group EHS Audit is by Group EHS Action by business CHECK DO and local management teams ensure that high standards are achieved Audits are carried out by experienced Human Rights at sites worldwide.
In addition, all ISO qualified EHS professionals and Johnson Matthey is confident of the facilities have developed local policies controlled and reviewed by the Group human rights performance of its own to meet international, national, local and EHS Director.
Health management operations but recognises that business corporate requirements.
reviews are undertaken every three practices in the supply chain are not The Environment, Health and Safety to five years at all operational sites.
always transparent and represent a risk Policy is a written statement, formulated These support the prioritisation and that must be managed.
Every effort is and agreed by the CEC.
Signed by the planning of programmes to optimise made to ensure the issues are managed Chief Executive, it is available at all sites workplace health and promote effectively.
We support the principles and forms the basis of the group EHS workforce sustainability.
In addition, defined within the UN Universal management system.
all businesses undertake annual health Declaration of Human Rights and the management improvement planning International Labour Organisation Core View the policy online at to adjust health programmes to meet Conventions including the conventions www.
in relation to child labour, forced labour, At each board meeting the board non-discrimination, freedom of The group EHS management reviews group EHS performance reports association and collective bargaining.
system comprises a set of mandatory for the prior months.
These reports set We also support the principles endorsed EHS policies, written as performance out the groups EHS performance in under the UN Global Compact and the standards.
Where there are different terms of accident and incidence rates, UN Guiding Principles on Business and acceptable methods of achieving the lost work days and the rolling all lost Human Rights the Ruggie Principles.
performance standards, appropriate time accident rate.
The reports also Compliance with, and respect for, these written guidance is also provided to contain information from businesses core principles are integrated within the assist in creating and managing local across the group on lost time accidents, risk assessment procedures and impact processes.
The group EHS management as well as details of any contractor assessments which are undertaken system is available to all employees incidents, occupational illness, sickness when entering into business in a new via our intranet, myJM.
It is regularly absence and any regulatory action.
territory and within the due diligence reviewed and, together with the The board reviews EHS strategy and processes when making an acquisition corporate policies and objectives, it reviews the EHS assurance process or entering a joint venture.
defines accountability and sets the on an annual basis.
performance standards against which All EHS audit reports, including Environment, Health and Safety EHS conformance audits are assessed.
health management reviews and EHS compliance audits are process risk management audit reports, Johnson Matthey is committed to conducted to verify that performance are reviewed by the CSR Compliance providing the highest level of protection standards contained in corporate EHS Committee and appropriate follow up to the environment and to safeguarding policies are being achieved and to actions are taken on outstanding issues.
the health, safety and wellbeing of its maintain continuous improvement.
All During 2013 14 a total of 25 detailed employees, customers, communities and Johnson Matthey operated manufacturing compliance audits and 23 one day audit other stakeholders.
This is supported by and research and development facilities action reviews were completed.
Health policies, a comprehensive management are included in the audit programme.
management reviews were conducted system, governance, careful risk Audit frequency for each facility is at three facilities.
assessment, auditing and training which determined by the scale, inherent risk promote continuous improvement and and past performance of the operation.
