78 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Sustainability and Governance continued The area of sustainability continues Business Integrity and Ethics and enhance the companys reputation.
to develop rapidly and we continually The training educates managers in their Johnson Matthey strives to maintain the monitor emerging issues, regulation, responsibilities for employees, commercial highest standards of ethical conduct legislation, standards and good practice.
contracts and company assets and is and corporate responsibility worldwide Developments are proactively managed delivered globally via online learning to ensure we act with integrity, through reviewing the external landscape programmes, face to face seminars and transparency and care for the rights of to understand the material issues that individual training.
Online compliance the individual wherever we do business.
may impact the group or present real training for employees addresses the Integrity is one of our core values see business opportunities.
Responsibility bribery and corruption, money laundering page 13 and our ethical principles and for identifying and assessing these issues and competition risks faced by the group.
standards are set out in our Business lies with the group sustainability team All our facilities have established Integrity and Ethics Policy which applies and the CSR Compliance Committee.
policies and procedures for employees to all our employees.
During the year we have continued to to raise employment related issues for develop approaches to further enhance consideration and resolution.
View the policy online at our ability to manage our material A confidential, secure, externally-run www.
issues, including the introduction of whistleblowing website and telephone additional tools.
helpline are also in place to give all The board and its committees, the We constantly monitor employees additional means to raise any Chairman, the Chief Executive and the developments on reporting practices issue of concern.
The website offers other individual directors all play key including those of the International multilingual access and allows for written roles, together with management, in Integrated Reporting Framework and or telephone reports.
The site is promoting and monitoring ethical those within the EU Commission.
We publicised via site notice boards and our behaviour and safeguarding Johnson are also assessing the new Global corporate intranet site.
Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidance, through the website and helpline as well We provide compliance training which was published on 22nd May as any received through other media, to our employees to support their 2013, in the context of our future such as email, telephone or letter are understanding of, and commitment reporting.
For reporting purposes in appropriately investigated in accordance to, group policies in order to protect 2013 14 we continue to self declare with our policy on whistleblowing.
Responses and outcomes are posted on the website, or are communicated to employees via other internal media, such as site notices or briefings.
For Johnson Matthey as a whole, there was a total of 16 new whistleblowing reports in the calendar year 2013 2012 17 and all but four have been resolved as at the date of approval of this annual report.
At its meeting in January 2014, the CASE STUDY Audit Committee reviewed the groups whistleblowing procedures and the matters raised during 2013 14.
Defining Our Most Material Issues Supply Chain Governance An important part of being a sustainable business is active engagement with our stakeholders, especially on the risks and opportunities that are the Continued interest and scrutiny of our most material, or relevant, to our long term business success.
supply chains is vital to ensure that all Horizon scanning and identification of global megatrends is a key materials, goods or services supplied part of our three-yearly strategic review of our ten year plan.
The CSR to Johnson Matthey are done so in an Compliance Committee assesses emerging issues for materiality and ethical and sustainable manner in line initiates any action as required.
Material issues are continually assessed as with our procurement policy, international part of our risk management and business planning processes.
In 2013 we started to develop a systematic process for materiality assessment that can be integrated with our existing business systems.
The View our supply chain related exercise involves developing approaches for materiality assessment with policies online at our various stakeholder groups.
Using this process will minimise duplication www.
of effort and distractions from minor issues.
Through establishing a more integrated approach for defining material issues means that in the future we will be able to communicate our findings in a clear and simple way to stakeholders about those matters that are of genuine importance to our long term profitability.
Read the full case study at www.
