52 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3.
Social Social Performance Summary 2014 2013 Average number of employees 11,331 10,498 1 Total employee turnover % 9.0 9.1 1 Voluntary employee turnover % 5.6 6.5 2 Employee gender female % 24 25 Gender of new recruits female % 27 25 Trade union representation % 29 31 Training days per employee 3.3 2.7 3 Training spend per employee 465 433 Internal promotions % of all recruitment in year 26 36 Attendance days lost per employee 5.3 5.2 Charitable donations thousands 626 615 1 Employee turnover is calculated by reference to the total number of leavers during the year expressed as a percentage of the average number of people employed during the year.
The analysis does not include agency workers not directly employed by Johnson Matthey.
3 Training spend does not include the cost of in house training or the cost of employees wages during training.
AS PART OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY 2017 VISION, our social goals cover good practices in employee development, positive relationships with our stakeholders and active involvement in the communities where we operate.
We want to excel as an employer, corporate citizen and local neighbour, justifying the reputation we have earned.
Talent Management As an innovative and progressive Building a Sustainable Workforce The first of the priorities is talent technology company we are well placed As Johnson Matthey continues to management.
A more consistent and to attract and retain the best graduates expand it is essential that we have a systematic way of identifying and globally and we are working to raise sustainable workforce.
developing our best talent is needed and our employer profile around the world Recruiting the right staff is vital we are introducing new tools and systems to position ourselves as an employer to support business development and to help accelerate the development of of choice.
growth, whether we are seeking to key people.
Beginning in 2014 we will We plan to build on our successful identify graduates with the greatest undertake regular talent reviews within local and divisional graduate programmes potential or experienced candidates.
We each division, together with cross by developing a groupwide global provide training and career opportunities divisional reviews for different functions.
Selected to develop our people so that they are We will be aiming to enhance our new recruits will have opportunities to motivated to contribute and stay with programmes to develop our high move internationally and work in different the group.
potential employees globally, and will parts of the business early on in their We start from an excellent base, continue to develop leaders at all levels.
Challenging assignments will as our staff turnover has remained low.
Growth areas, including China, help them gain breadth of knowledge However, we cannot be complacent: the are a strategic priority for our talent and accelerate their development to kick world is changing, recruitment practices management activities.
We have regional start their careers with Johnson Matthey.
are evolving and many companies face leadership programmes in place in the We also partner with universities demands for a globally mobile workforce.
major centres of our operations and to support our recruitment processes.
are taking a global approach towards Looking longer term we believe it is developing our middle and senior important to engage with our scientists of Human Resources HR leadership populations.
the future and encourage them to think Strategic Priorities about a career in our industry.
Promoting In 2013 the company reviewed and science education is the flagship theme Global Recruitment and Opportunities redefined its HR strategy as attracting, of our Community Investment Policy Our second priority is to develop a engaging and growing our people to see pages 58 and 59 and our employees global approach to graduate recruitment.
enable the effective delivery of the around the world work with local schools, We have boosted our social media strategy over the long term.
A five host pupil visits to sites and provide presence to build awareness of what pronged approach was developed financial and in kind support to a range Johnson Matthey has to offer and have to meet this aim.
reached thousands of followers so far.
53 CASE STUDY Developing Local Leaders in China China is an expanding market for Johnson Matthey in the area of catalysts for vehicles and technologies that enable coal to be converted to chemicals and clean burning fuel.
Expansion across the region means strong leaders with the right skills and values are essential for the sustainability of the business.
Our China Leadership Development initiative is meeting this need.
Interpersonal and leadership skills are learnt building trust, coaching, communicating with others, team building, giving feedback effectively and ensuring that performance, whether their own or that of others, aligns with the companys values, goals and strategy.
This is a great opportunity to become a leader in a global company with world class experience of producing sustainable technologies.
For Johnson Matthey, the initiative is building a pipeline of future leaders with a sound understanding of the culture both of their own country and of a company that is serving Chinas increasing demands for clean technology.
Read the full case study at www.
Effective Mobility To meet future needs, we are undertaking Work is also underway to better Improving mobility across countries and strategic resource planning which will communicate with employees on the divisions is our third priority.
Increased drive recruitment and development full range of benefits we provide as mobility benefits both the company and plans.
Based on the groups ten year well as the value of these benefits the individual.
Employees gain breadth strategic plans, we are identifying critical through providing information on their and depth of experience while the skill requirements and working out Total Reward.
company benefits from their enhanced proactive methods to close gaps.
We believe it will also A Growing Workforce improve collaboration across the group Fair Reward for Sustained Performance In 2013 14, employee numbers increased which is a key focus of our business To make Johnson Matthey an employer by 8%, compared to a growth rate of strategy.
We will be developing our of choice and support employee 6% in 2012 13.
The higher growth rate suite of policies to better facilitate the retention we must provide employees is the result of rising recruitment to meet movement of people and their families, with fair rewards.
This is the fifth priority the needs of our growing businesses including international assignments.
In the past year we and the acquisition of Formox in March have started to review our pay and 2013.
The strongest growth was in Developing Capabilities for the employment packages, starting with the Europe at 13%.
In line with our culture Long Term pay scales for critical roles, to ensure that of encouraging our people to build their The fourth priority is to identify and we remain competitive in the job market.
careers with the company, we filled 26% evolve the capabilities we will need to of our roles internally.
ensure we deliver our long term strategy.
CASE STUDY Building a Sustainable Workforce in India As our business expands, Johnson Matthey is committed to attracting and retaining the most talented people globally.
To help build a long term sustainable workforce our Indian businesses recently launched a number of initiatives.
Undergraduates can join as an intern for two months working on stimulating and challenging projects.
We also launched a comprehensive graduate induction programme.
Graduates are rotated between four sites, gaining experience of different divisions within the company.
Buddies are assigned to each graduate to help them integrate into the business and our HR team supports them and their line managers in the transition from university to working life.
Our Leadership Development Programme develops leadership and business skills.
Graduates learn about the business and receive training in key competencies.
Project work and exposure to senior Johnson Matthey leaders form part of the programme.
Participants are also matched with a mentor a senior colleague to assist their career development.
Attracting the most talented graduates from the best universities and investing in their career development gives our business a competitive edge as we continue to grow.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 54 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3.
Social Social continued In return, we have a high level of Employee Turnover by Region Training and Development employee commitment and loyalty.
2013 14 Training and development remains Voluntary Voluntary staff turnover fell in 2013 14 to attractive to employees, current and Total Employee employee 5.6%, a decrease of 0.9% compared to leavers turnover turnover prospective.
The total employee turnover on developing our talent globally and Europe 363 6.3% 4.5% figure remained steady at 9%.
across our divisions and businesses.
North America 290 9.5% 4.6% The tables below set out the Our success in developing our Asia 244 16.2% 11.7% average number of people, the net Rest of World 79 14.3% 5.8% people is grounded in finding the right change in the number of people blend of learning on the job through Total group 976 9.0% 5.6% employed and employee turnover during engaging and challenging tasks, learning 2013 14 by geographical region and by from colleagues through collaboration, employment contract.
coaching and mentoring, as well as Employee turnover is calculated by formal learning through structured The corporate sickness absence reference to the total number of leavers training, education and development rate has remained steady.
The average during the year expressed as a programmes.
We believe that it is the number of days lost per employee in percentage of the average number of right combination of learning experiences 2013 14 through sickness absence people employed during the same that accelerates personal development, was 5.3 days 2012 13 5.2 days.
The analysis does not include and we communicate this as the This represents 2.0% of lost time agency workers not directly employed 70:20:10 approach 70% from per employee in the working year by Johnson Matthey.
We continue to invest 10% from formal learning.
in sustainable health and wellness Our divisions continue to provide programmes to support the longer term Average Number of People Employed tailored initiatives to meet their business health, wellbeing and performance of Average headcount 2013 14 needs, including graduate programmes, our employees.
Many of our businesses Temporary health and safety training, leadership have made arrangements for employees Permanent contract employees employees Total skills, technical training and to have access to flu vaccinations, apprenticeships which Johnson Matthey discounted rates at local gyms, stress Europe 5,777 335 6,112 strongly supports as a valuable route for awareness training and arranged other North America 3,064 42 3,106 cultivating new talent.
Rest of World 551 5 556 Total group 10,901 430 11,331 Annual Change in People Employed Net change between average CASE STUDY headcount 2012 13 and 2013 14 Temporary Permanent contract Total net employees employees change Vitality at Germiston Europe 593 103 696 Each year our Germiston, South North America 106 -5 101 Africa site organises employee Asia 93 -11 82 Wellness Days including health Rest of World -50 4 -46 screenings, fitness classes, HIV Total group 742 91 833 tests, onsite podiatrist, dietician and optometrist to promote wellbeing.
Employees are also challenged to take up exercise and eat a balanced Total Employees by Division diet.
75 people signed up and received guidance from a dietician and plenty Average headcount for 2013 14 of motivation.
Employees also took part in the Big Walk, while regular Zumba classes were also on offer to participants.
Corporate New Businesses Mandela Day falls on 18th July, when South Africans can volunteer 505 Emission 640 67 minutes of their time to commemorate the 67 years that Nelson Mandela Control Fine spent fighting for social justice.
In 2013, the site made education related Technologies Chemicals 4,239 1,300 donations and staff gave new school shoes and socks, second hand clothes and healthy snacks to local families.
A presentation on bullying was given to senior pupils to educate them on its effects.
These activities help make Germiston an attractive place to work, Precious Metal forging long term links with the community and building a loyal and Products sustainable workforce.
2,609 Process Technologies Read the full case study at www.
Active breaks at our manufacturing plant in Redwitz, Germany.
Collaborating at our chemicals manufacturing site in Shanghai, China.
We have continued to expand our We aim to achieve greater The following table sets out, on employee development activities and consistency in our approach to developing a total and on a per employee basis, resources globally.
For example, we our people so that their experience will the days of training and training spend have introduced mentoring to support be similar around the world but with during 2013 14.
The average spend per graduates as well as managers moving local programmes tailored to local employee has increased to 465.
In North America we business and cultural needs.
does not include the cost of in house have established new training processes, Over the past year employees training or the cost of the employees while across Europe we have increased attended an average of 3.3 training days, wages during training.
the number of development programmes an increase of 0.6 days per employee offered in order to meet increased on 2012 13.
Training Days and Spend on Training 2013 14 demand.
We remain committed to developing Number We are in the process of developing our employees and offering them career of days Total shifts Spend a community of learning and development opportunities and during 2013 14, 515 days training per professionals across the world, with the internal promotions were made, with shifts per employee training employee aim of increasing collaboration between 316 of these being moves between divisions and regions.
We have started to businesses.
This represents 26% of all Europe 17,008 2.9 593 see benefits from improved networking the appointments made in the year.
In North America 8,828 2.9 276 opportunities and relationships within some areas, we have recruited people Asia 5,202 3.4 351 Rest of World 4,503 8.2 494 this community, with best practices being from the external market to bring in shared and increasingly common themes specific skills for example in IT and the Total group 35,541 3.3 465 underpinning our global activities.
forward, we plan to develop some more common solutions, in particular in the area of accelerated development for high potential employees and talent learning systems.
CASE STUDY Inspiring Female Scientists of the Future Representatives of Johnson Matthey delivered workshops at the 2013 and 2014 fair for girls, Gloucester County College, New Jersey, USA.
Colour, Candy and Chemistry explored how colour chemistry plays a role in everyday life and outlined a few tricks used in food science, while Build a Boat explored physics concepts such as buoyancy and the business behind building a profitable boat.
These events aim to encourage students to consider a career in the STEM subjects science, technology, engineering and maths.
The college has found that to encourage girls to take up a scientific or technical career they require motivation early in their education.
Through the creative and well designed workshops, girls understand the attraction, pervasiveness and sheer fun of science.
With role models like those from Johnson Matthey they can imagine themselves as scientists making a valuable contribution to society.
Women are under represented in the chemical industry.
By contributing, we can encourage gender diversity across the industry.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 56 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3.
Social Social continued Diversity Gender Diversity Statistics At Johnson Matthey we practise equal As at 31st March 2014 Male Female % male % female opportunity and welcome diversity in all its forms.
We recognise the value of Board 82 80% 20% 33% of non-executives diversity in the workplace encouraging 1 Chief Executives Committee 9 1 90% 10% creativity, broader cultural understanding 1 Subsidiary directors 127 16 89% 11% and access to a wider pool of talent 2 Senior managers 178 40 82% 18% and have policies in place to guide our New recruits 1,021 377 73% 27% employment decisions.
Total group 8,736 2,820 76% 24% We have taken, and continue to take, several steps to promote diversity, 1 Includes four males who are also on the board.
including gender diversity, both at senior 2 Senior managers who are also subsidiary directors are included in both categories.
management level and in the boardroom.
Our policies and processes prevent bias in relation to recruitment and promotion, and we are working to implement other Our policies on equal opportunity Accelerating collaboration is a key theme positive measures to actively promote and diversity are shown on page 81 and of both our business strategy and our diversity.
These measures include on our website.
The table above shows approach to employee engagement.
requiring balanced shortlists when the gender breakdown of the groups Alongside the launch of myJM, we recruiting, ensuring diversity mix in employees as at 31st March 2014. introduced the Collaboration in Action company events and conferences, awards to recognise the best examples actively discussing diversity in succession of collaborative working across the planning and talent management, Engaging our People company.
103 entries were received, promoting industrial and scientific careers Employee engagement is about making covering a diverse range of topics, to women and developing family friendly sure that our people feel involved in the countries and businesses.
A shortlist and flexible employment policies.
There company and committed to its goals.
of 24 entries split into eight categories are challenges to overcome but we are If we are to keep them engaged was turned over to a group wide vote continuing to make good progress.
communication must be two way with in April 2014.
Gender diversity, in particular, is not a culture that encourages employee We have a strong business strategy always easy to implement.
There are a number of two process in place.
However, feedback under represented in the chemical way communication processes in place from employees has suggested it is industry, as they are in the technology across Johnson Matthey which utilise not as widely understood internally as and manufacturing sectors generally, a wide range of channels.
In 2014 15 we aim to which may originate from the lower Our group wide intranet, myJM, strengthen employee engagement popularity of science subjects at school now in its second year, is available to all and understanding around the groups amongst girls.
Our answer is to reach out employees.
The platform was designed strategy.
As a global company it is to them early girls and boys working to promote networking between important that employees connect with with organisations such as STEMnet employees across the world and 70% our strategic goals and we are launching which promotes the STEM subjects of people with access to a computer a campaign to engage every employee, of science, technology, engineering and are using the system to link up, share wherever they are, on what our strategy maths and demonstrate that a career information and collaborate on projects.
is, why it is important and how they in a science related industry can be More than 980 project sites have been contribute to it.
We will also be doing exciting and rewarding.
Many of our set up and many blogs have been used more to embed our culture and values activities among school students involve to share information across the group.
Through these both boys and girls but some do efforts we hope to increase employee specifically target girls on their own.
engagement, promote further collaboration, enhance customer focus and create value to support the future growth of our business.
