57 An employee share ownership During 2013 14 some working We also continue to be actively scheme gives staff a financial interest time was lost within the group as a result involved with the key trade associations in the company and stimulates of employee action.
In January 2014, and industry organisations that are performance.
Employees may participate members of the United Steel Workers connected with our activities.
This in share ownership plans, where USW union, employed at the groups provides an effective way of practicable, under which they can buy gold refining site in Brampton, Canada, understanding, shaping, participating shares in Johnson Matthey which are embarked on 18 days of strike action in and contributing to a range of matched by a company funded response to our three year wage offer, discussion areas that are relevant to our component.
Employees in six countries despite a unanimous recommendation stakeholders, and those of the broader are able to contribute to a company from the union to accept the offer.
industry and market sectors we operate share ownership plan or a 401k Non-union employees kept the business in.
During the year we have participated approved savings investment plan.
running during the strike and after in a number of trade associations Through these ownership plans, further talks including mediation, including the UK Chemical Industries Johnson Mattheys current and former USW members returned to work on Association, the Energy and Resources employees collectively held 1.7% of the 7th February 2014.
Institute, the Engineering Employers companys shares at 31st March 2014.
Our Emission Control Technologies Federation, the Pgm Health Science Johnson Matthey also provides site at Germiston, South Africa had a Research Group, the International pension plans for its employees five week strike as a result of national Platinum Group Metals Association worldwide.
These pension plans are wage bargaining in the country.
and Eurometaux, the association a combination of defined benefit servicing and representing the European and defined contribution pension non-ferrous metals industry.
Neil Carson, Trade Union Representation arrangements, savings schemes and our Chief Executive, co-chairs the UKs Average headcount 2013 14 provident funds designed to provide Chemistry Growth Partnership, a newly Permanent % retirement benefits, based on local formed joint industry UK government employees Represented represented laws and practices.
initiative to ensure growth, innovation Europe 5,777 2,298 40% Our Manufacturing Excellence and export in the UK chemical industry.
North America 3,064 603 20% programme, which is improving Whilst much of our engagement in Asia 1,509 16 1% efficiency and productivity, also has policy development is through trade Rest of World 551 248 45% a strong employee engagement associations, Johnson Matthey, from Total group 10,901 3,165 29% component, both through training time to time, also engages with national courses and by encouraging employee and local government to inform the contributions to manufacturing development of policy in areas where improvements.
In 2013 we launched our technology or products can play Stakeholder Engagement the Efficiency Recognition Programme, an important role.
an internal benchmarking programme Johnson Matthey has a wide network that is open to all our manufacturing For further details on our stakeholder of stakeholders, including communities, sites.
The programme is made up of engagement activities, including a customers, employees and their three standards Silver, Gold and stakeholder map, visit our website representatives, fund managers, Platinum and recognises locations at www.
governments, non-governmental that achieve and sustain improving levels organisations, national and international of efficiency.
Shareholders are an important trade associations, shareholders and stakeholder group for us.
all of our major shareholders regularly, as By engaging with our stakeholders, Employee Relations described in the Corporate Governance through consultation or collaboration, Johnson Matthey maintains good and Report on page 94, and sustainability we are working with, and not against, constructive relations with all recognised or corporate social responsibility matters the grain of these interest groups, as we trade unions which collectively represent may be discussed.
A number of our make decisions on business development 29% of all group employees worldwide investors are interested in ethical and explore ways of achieving common 2012 13 31%.
The following table shows investment and manage socially benefits.
the average number and percentage of responsible investment SRI funds.
We communicate with stakeholders Johnson Mattheys employees covered We provide these investors with the on an ongoing basis and in a number by collective bargaining arrangements information they need through regular of ways: these include our website, and represented by trade unions by dialogue with specialists from their annual report, surveys, regular dialogue geographical region in 2013 14. organisations and participation in and meetings on specific topics.
key benchmarking studies Carbon Disclosure Project, FTSE4Good, London Benchmarking Group.
We are a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 58 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3.
Social Social continued Communities are another major This has affected our Precious Metal We are investing in our communities: stakeholder group.
They are our Products Division where our marketing To demonstrate our commitment to neighbours and are affected by how we team now needs fewer personnel and being a responsible business that operate.
Our workforce is drawn mainly has been restructured.
Again, we provides value beyond our products.
We try to be a good worked to ensure that the employees To make a positive impact in the corporate member of the community affected have the right support in the communities in which we operate.
but from time to time we have to close form of outplacement help, training or a facility for business reasons and are redeployment within Johnson Matthey.
To create goodwill and enhance aware of the consequent hardships that In the event, two employees took our reputation within our local can arise.
voluntary redundancy, two resigned and communities.
In March 2014 we announced our ten moved within the company.
To build our profile as an employer decision to consult with employees As we continue to plan long term of choice.
about the closure of our sites at for sustainability in our business we are Cresswell and High Carr, UK, which developing more systematic ways to As a responsible business we have manufacture ceramic colour products.
better understand what issues are most an important contribution to make to The decision was a result of a trend material to us and more effectively the economic development of our local towards less ornate tableware and a engage with our stakeholders to help communities.
This can take the form of decline in demand for our colour inform this.
Further details on our work being a good employer, collaboration with products.
Our distribution office in Hong to define material issues are given in the our local communities and neighbours, Kong would also close.
The consultation Sustainability and Governance section and investment in the community by period has now ended and employees on pages 77 and 78. giving financial help, providing employee have accepted our decision to close the time or making in kind donations.
In these situations we set up Most of our sites participate in Community Investment a consultative committee with employee activities in their communities giving to We have a strong tradition of getting representatives from all parts of the local charities and supporting educational involved with our communities and work business to explore the options of projects, as well getting involved in hard to build good community relations, outplacement, retraining, redeployment projects to advance science or stimulate with our employees taking part in local and redundancy, doing everything economic regeneration.
possible to mitigate any hardship and allocate a budget to community This contributes powerfully to our the difficulty that employees with investment activities.
Social specialist skills may have in finding Our employees also participate in is one of the five elements of our other employment.
Our Sustainability 2017 strategy for building In January 2014, our new contract Community Investment Policy allows all a sustainable business and we believe with one of our suppliers of platinum employees two days paid leave per year that investing in our communities is an group metals, Anglo Platinum, began.
for community or charity work, subject integral part of that social commitment.
to the approval of their manager.
CASE STUDY Charity Begins at Home UK employees donated Christmas gifts and food hampers to 43 families needing support in Royston and the surrounding villages as part of a scheme set up with the local branch of the charity, Home-Start.
Home-Start is a national charity that helps families with young children who are struggling to cope.
The families are experiencing a range of problems such as domestic violence, isolation, post-natal depression, drug dependency and coping with children who have a long term illness or disability.
This campaign gave Johnson Mattheys employees at Royston a fantastic opportunity to give back to their local community while strengthening community relations and, most importantly, helping families in difficult situations have a more enjoyable Christmas.
Read the full case study at www.
59.. Charity fundraising at our Edinburgh, UK site.
Local school children on a visit to Royston, UK.
Employees are encouraged to take the In 2013 14 the company donated Charitable Donations 2013 14 opportunity to make a difference to their 626,000 to charitable organisations, local area.
We are developing processes 2% more than last year.
This figure only to collect data on our employees includes donations made by Johnson New Businesses volunteering efforts to enable us to track Matthey and does not include payroll 0.2% Other corporate Fine Chemicals our progress.
giving, donations made by staff or functions 7.5% 2.4% The communities in which we employee time.
The company made Precious Metal operate face a wide range of problems no political donations in the year.
Products and priorities, as they are located in At a group level, Johnson Matthey 14.4% different countries with different needs.
operates a charitable donations We try to ensure that our operations programme which represented 47% have the resources and support to 296,000 of total donations in 2013 14.
Process identify the projects, initiatives and This programme supports organisations Technologies Corporate 14.5% central group partnerships that can make a real working in the areas of environment and donations difference in their communities and sustainability, medical and health, Emission Control 47.3% Technologies that mean something to employees science and education, social welfare 13.7% and their families.
We also aim to and international development.
support the future growth of our Our two year partnership with CLIC business through the promotion of Sargent ran throughout 2013 14 and science education among young people came to an end in March 2014.
CLIC the flagship theme of our Community Sargent is the UKs leading cancer Investment Policy.
charity for children, young people and Johnson Matthey is a member of their families and throughout the two the London Benchmarking Group LBG, years our employees, together with a a global network of companies that donation from the company, raised share and drive best practice in 75,000.
Our new charity partnership corporate community investment.
began on 1st April 2014 and this year we took a new approach to selecting which charity to support.
We conducted an Charitable Donations employee wide vote on the groups Across the globe, Johnson Mattheys networking site, myJM.
With 63% of the sites lend support to many charities vote, cancer research was clearly the locally and nationally through donations, cause that employees empathise most employee time or the loan of company with.
Examples of these are to 31st March 2016 we are partnering summarised as case studies in this with Cancer Research UK with our nonreport with full details and further UK sites being encouraged to support examples on our website.
their national cancer research charities.
As well as a charitable budget, Read more online at we also offer matched funding for www.
The company will match employees fundraising in aid of a registered charity.
Matching is provided from central group funds up to 1,000 per employee per year, subject to a cap of 50,000 per annum for the group as a whole.
During the year, 36,000 in matched contributions were made in relation to 36 employees and 12 employee teams in three countries.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
