DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Materiality and reporting Health and safety In 2014, we undertook a materiality assessment to prioritise key General approach Corporate Responsibility CR issues from both an internal and Copper mining and processing are inherently hazardous activities, external perspective.
As part of this process we benchmarked our and we recognise the need to continually improve our health reporting against a number of industry peers, considered the Global and safety performance.
Following the Restructuring, the Group Reporting Initiative reporting guidelines and engaged with internal operates four underground mines and one open-pit mine, four stakeholders from across the business, including senior operational concentrators and has two major growth projects under construction, management and key executive management in health and safety, Bozshakol and Aktogay.
In future, approximately 80% of our environment, risk, human resources and finance.
We also sought the production will come from open-pit mines and modern processing views of some of our external stakeholders, including investors and plants, which is expected to improve the health and safety risk environmental, social and governance analysts.
The outcome of this engagement was a matrix see below For more information on our Growth Projects, see pages6 and 7. setting out the CR issues most material to our business and In 2014, we appointed a new Group Health and Safety Director to our stakeholders.
This was reviewed by senior management who, drawing on his experience withmajor international mining and the Board.
companies, will focus on enhancing the existing systems and This section of our Annual Report and Accounts includes policies and improving the consistency of our approach across information on our performance in 2014 relating to the highest all operations.
In 2015, we will review and simplify existing health priority issues as determined by the matrix.
Our website provides and safety standards to bring them closer in line with international further details of our performance in this area.
A key focus going forward will be on improving our health and safety reporting systems, as we believe more robust TheRestructuring that was completed on 31 October 2014 has data will help us understand and address our main problem areas changed some of our CR impacts.
Where data is presented for the better.
As part of this effort, wewill adopt the International Group, this includes data forthe Disposal Assets up to the date of Council on Mining and Metals ICMM Health and Safety completion of the Restructuring, as well as first quarter data for Performance Indicators for internal and external reporting.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station, in which the Group held a 50% stake until its disposal on 1 April 2014.
Where appropriate, we have presented performance data for thecontinuing operationsonly to provide a better context for the Group CR impacts going forward.
Emissions to air Anti-bribery and corruption GHG emissions Contractor safety Human rights Energy use Licence to operate Fatalities Safety training Labour relations includes collective bargaining and freedom of association Training and development Waste management Water use and management Workplace injuries and incidents Diversity and equality Anti-competitive behaviour Occupational health Business integrity and compliance Pay and benefits Contractual integrity Resource use efficiency Economic development Employees wellbeing Rehabilitation closure Resettlement Revenue and tax transparency Social investment Supplier conduct Biodiversity Low High Internal business priorities 64 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Low External stakeholder priorities High DIRECTORS REPORT For more information, see pages 4 Business Model 16 Strategy 28 Risk Management Overview The new safety programme will also focus on developing the Fatalities by cause leadership skills required to drive a safe and efficient working environment for our employees and contractorsby emphasising four key areas: right tools, right people, right work environment and right procedures.
Central to this framework is a solid Rock fall 2 management system and strong leadership.
We believe that Mobile equipment 4 determined leadership on safety from all levels ofmanagement Electrocution 3 will help improve behavioural patterns amongst the workforce, Falling objects 1 where awareness and understanding of health and safety risks Hazardous substances 1 continues to present a major challenge.
Structural collapse 2 Providing sufficient training to our employees to ensure they have the right skills to perform their duties safely is core to the success Incidents and injuries of our programme.
Under regulatory requirements in Kazakhstan, Lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR for the Group was 1.36, each employee involved in hazardous activities is required to while theLTIFR forthe continuing operationswas 1.91 both undergo 10 hours of annual safety training, and those in supervisory excluding contractors.
In addition to this, we provide our There were 100 lost-time injuries across our operations in 2014, workforce with training and inductions on internal safety standards including 24 at the continuing operations.
This compares to 172 and procedures.
At Bozshakol, where training and on-boarding injuries amongst our employees last year.
The reduction was in of future operational staff commenced in December 2014, this part driven by the completion of theRestructuring on 31 October includes an intensive three monthinduction programme for every 2014, which resulted in the divestmentof 12 of the 16 mines and new employee with safety built in throughout.
four of the eight concentrators within the Groups portfolio.
Following the completion of the Restructuring, both the Disposal Further improvements werealso attributable to stricter controls Assets and continuing operations will continue to improve their and safety compliance checks at sites, which helped raise risk health and safety management framework.
The Group will seek awareness at some of the most challenging sites at the Disposal assistance and best practice advice from external consultants to Assets, thus improving overall safety performance.
address some of the most crucial areas of concern.
We monitor injury statistics of our contractors where possible.
Fatalities In 2014, we received reports of 26 lost-time injuries from our We deeply regret the deaths of nine employees and four contractors, including 18 injuries at theDisposal Assets, prior to contractorsat our operations in 2014: of those, three employees completion of the Restructuring on 31 October 2014, and eight and three contractors died at sites which remain part of KAZ injuries at our continuing operations during the 12 months of 2014.
This compares to 15employees We continue to develop our internal reporting systems, to ensure and three contractor fatalities at the Groups operations in 2013. all incidents are captured.
This will require additional effortto address Whilst the number of fatalities has reduced, we still view this under-reporting amongst both our employees and contractors.
performance as unacceptable and recognise only one goal in this area zero work-related fatalities.
All fatalities are investigated In 2015, we will introduce a new incident reporting system to record and the resulting remedial action plans are reviewed by the and report a Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate as the Group Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
moves to the ICMM guidelines for health and safety reporting.
In future, as our major growth projects ramp up, KAZ Minerals Occupational health overall safety risk profile will improve.
The growth projects will Occupational health issues are significant within our workforce work with modern equipment, which together withan intensive due to the hazardous nature of the work undertaken.
The main safety training and induction programme as well as support from health impactsinclude dust-induced lung disease, circulatory a senior management team that includes experienced professionals disorders and hand-arm vibration syndrome.
We monitor the from some of the leading mining companies globally, will instil a health of our operational employees closely and provide free new safety mind-set from the start.
We will also continue to focus medical care andsubsidies for holidays at health centres.
All onchanging the existing safety culture at our producing assets, operational staff undergo an annual health assessment to ensure where we currently face some historical challenges.
In 2015, we problems are diagnosed and treated as early as possible.
will conduct a comprehensive review of underground operations The number of occupational health cases has reduced from 347 risk management at our operations in the East Region.
in 2013 to 307 in 2014, a rate of 4.17per million hours worked.
48 of these occupational health cases were recorded at the continuing operations.
The most common work-related illnesses include silicosis, bronchitis and lower back pain.
com 65 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Contractor safety Energy use All of our operations use contractors for a variety of works, Following the Restructuring, we no longer own or operate power including shaft sinking, structural repairs and maintenance, generating facilities and energy used at our operations is purchased transportation, and, most significantly, in the construction of from third party providers.
We will continue to work on energy our major growth projects.
We expect contractors to apply saving initiativesin order to contribute to the Governments target safety standards in line with KAZ Minerals internal policies, but of reducing energy intensity in Kazakhstan by 25% from 2008 levels management of their performance can be challenging due to the by 2020. short duration of much of the contracted work.
Nonetheless, During 2013 and 2014, the Group convened a working group, we include safety performance requirements in all contracts, formed of energy specialists and engineers, to plan and implement actively monitor complianceand reserve the right to terminate energy efficiency initiatives across all operations, including the East the relationship in case of repeated or severe violations.
Such initiatives included equipment servicing and repairs, In the case of longer-term cooperation we provide supplementary building insulation, boiler ventilation and the installation of energy training inductions and communications around safety, with the efficient alternatives where appropriate.
aim of improving contractor safety at our sites.
We investigate An internal energy audit, covering both our Disposal Assets and and draw lessons from all contractor fatalities and serious incidents.
continuing operations, was conducted during May to July 2014, Our growth projects regrettably reported two fatalities in the first whichhas resulted in the development of a five year energy half of 2014, following which we intensifiedsafety monitoring at efficiency programme.
The second half of 2014 demonstrated better contractor compliance with our safety standards at Bozshakol and In 2014, our Group-wide energy use was 3,962 GWh, 32% lower we achievedthree millionman hours without a lost-time injury than in 2013.
Of this total, continuing operations energy use was from June to December.
Thelower electricity and heat consumption in 2014 is attributable to the closure of the Zhezkazgan smelter, Satpayev Environment concentrator and Berezovsky concentrator in 2013, the disposal General approach of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station on 1 April 2014 and the Environmental management remains a key priority for KAZ divestment of12 mines, four concentrators and two smelters as Minerals.
The Restructuring saw the disposal of the smelting and part of the Restructuring completed in October 2014.
Reduced power generating facilities, along with a number of mature mines output in the Power Division prior to completion of the Restructuring and concentrators, resulting in a changeto our environmental also led to lower energy use.
Further reductions are attributable footprint.
CO and air emissions are lower at the continuing 2 to energy-saving initiatives conducted across our operations.
operations than at the Disposal Assets, therefore the impact of our operations on the health of the communities will be relatively Operational energy use GWh small going forward but our overallimpact on the environment will continue to be significant given the nature of our operations.
14 14 3,246 716 3,962 Our main focus and priorities going forward will shift to waste, 13 5,182 618 5,800 13 including tailings management, as well as water and energy use from copper mining and processing.
Disposal Assets and Ekibastuz GRES-1 Continuing operations Environmental compliance is an important component of our licence to operate and we applyinternal environmental risk management systems to address ongoing and emerging risks Greenhouse gas emissions and minimise theimpact on the health of our employees and Prior to the completion of the Restructuring, our operations produced communities around our operations.
Our goal is to ensure the power necessary for operational use in-house.
The majority of compliance with existing legislation as a minimum while striving our CO e emissions reported below aretherefore Scope 1.
Scope 2 2 for continuous additional improvement where possible.
Our emissions have been included for the continuing operations for the operations receive environmental permits that set annual period after the completion of the Restructuring on 31 October levels for emissions, water use and discharge as well as waste.
CO e emissions for the Group going forward will reduce 2 significantly as we no longer own power or smelting facilities.
We report all environmental fines and incidents incurred during We collect and calculate Scope 1 emissions data based on the year on our website, and apply a materiality threshold to the methodology approved by the Ministry of Environment those reported in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The threshold of Kazakhstan as of November 2010, which is in turn based is based on a qualitative assessment scope of impact on the on the revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse environment, employees and communities, impact on operations Gas Inventories.
and afinancial assessment a fine for a single incident in excess of $100,000 of each incident.
There were no major environmental The East Region has adopted the ISO 14064 standard for incidents at our operations in 2014.
Allfines incurred are reported quantifying, monitoring, reporting and verifying Scope 1 and in the Corporate Responsibility section of our website.
We support the Government of Kazakhstans efforts in moving In 2014, the Groups carbon dioxide equivalenttotalled to a green economy and welcome the launch ofthe new cap 12.1million tonnes, 53% less than in 2013.
Of this, 328,000tonnes is and trade system in 2014.
The system issues carbon quotas to attributable to the continuing operations.
The reduction in carbon entities whose annual CO emissions exceed 20,000 tonnes, 2 emissions is largely driven by closure of the Zhezkazgan smelter in and the market currently lists approximately 10 corporate 2013, the disposal of power generating facilities as part of the participants, with limited trading activity.
66 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT Restructuring, as well as the disposal of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 NO emissions at Group level decreased by 63% from 53,931 x power station, which aloneaccounted for over 50% of total Group tonnes in 2013 to 20,188 tonnes in 2014.
Total ash emissions fell to carbon output in 2013.
Additional carbon reductions were achieved 38,537 tonnes in 2014, a reduction of 54% from the previous year.
as a result of the modernisation programme at the captive power NO and ash emissions decreased largely due tothe closure of x plants, which includedthe installation of battery emulsifiers.
smelting and processing assets mentioned above as well asthe Restructuring.
The captive power stations also achieved reductions We were previously unable to normalise our CO e emissions to 2 due to the ongoing modernisation programme and the installation copper output due to the very different nature of the Mining and of twobattery emulsifiers.
The Group is now a focused copper producer and the CO e intensity at the continuing operationsin 2014 was Emission levels at the continuing operationsare low compared 2 3.93 tonnes of CO e per tonne of copper cathode equivalent.
to the levels achieved at the Group prior to the Restructuring: 2 NO emissions in 2014 amounted to 300 tonnes, ash emissions x Greenhouse gas emissions 000 tonnes in 2014 to 0.017tonnes.
Disposal Continuing Assets operations Group total Water Water remains a high priorityissue for KAZ Minerals, even Scope 1 11,745 328 12,073 afterthe disposal of the power facilities which used large Scope 2 N A 0.332 0.332 amounts of water for cooling.
Copper processing requires CO e tonne of 2 careful managementof water withdrawal and discharge, and 1 copper cathode 3.93 N A our operations recycle approximately two thirds of withdrawn water.
We seek to ensure that our operational use does not affect 1 KAZ Minerals continuing operations only communal water suppliesand we use different water sources for Emissions to air production purposes to those used bylocal communities.
The Prior to the Restructuring, our operations produced a substantial Groups total water consumption decreased from 3.3 million amount of sulphur dioxide SO, nitrogen oxides NO, ash, 2 x megalitres in 2013 to 1.5 million megalitres in 2014.
Of this total and low levels of airborne dust, which contained traces of arsenic.
consumption, 0.8 million megalitres was recycled water.
A further These emissions were largely derived from the smelting and power 0.6 millionmegalitres was surface water that we draw directly generation process, and impactedthe local communities surrounding from lakes, rivers and reservoirs.
The reduction in water consumption those operations.
The disposal of the powergenerating and smelting between 2013 and 2014 is largely due to the structural changes facilities has significantly reduced KAZ Minerals emissions.
Emissions within the Group, including the disposal of Ekibastuz GRES-1 at our operations are monitored internally on an ongoing basis, with power station, which previously accounted for over 50% of total quarterly assessments by an accredited independent laboratory.
Group water use, as well as the captive power stations as part of SO emissions for the Group totalled 127,688 tonnes, compared the Restructuring.
24,250megalitres of water wereconsumed by 2 with 214,123 tonnes in 2013.
Smelting and power assets are the thecontinuing operationsin 2014, 77% of which was recycled main sources of SO emissions.
We disposed of all power and process water, which is captured and reused multiple times.
2 smelting facilities as part of theRestructuring in October 2014.
Prior to that, we also disposed of our 50% stake in the Ekibastuz Water use megalitres GRES-1 power station, which significantly reduced the Group SO 2 output.
Further reductions are attributable to thereduced power Group 823,000 1.5 million generation at the captive power stations.
At 69,118 tonnes, SO Continuing 2 18,650 24,250 operations output of the Disposal Assets Mining Division during the 10 months of 2014 was higher than during the comparative period 0 30,000 800,000 1.5 million in the prior year due to greater sulphur content in the ore Recycled process water processed in 2014, as well as repair works at sections of the Balkhash sulphuric acid plant.
Going forward, SO emissions will no longer be a material issue Waste 2 for the Group as we no longer own or operate power generation Our operations produce significant amounts of waste, which or smelting facilities.
The Groupcontinues to use thesmelter in includes overburden, tailings, slimes and slags, as well as ash Balkhash to process its concentrate on atolling basis.
The smelter in the now disposed power facilities.
maintains low levels of SO by capturing emissions and transforming 2 Compliance with the Government Environmental Code requires them into sulphuric acid.
The SO utilisation ratefor 2014 isavailable 2 companies in Kazakhstanto develop waste management plans, a in the Corporate Responsibility section on our website.
task we have been working on in coordination with the regulatory authoritiesin 2013 and 2014.
The renewed plan, which was drafted for the continuing operations following the completion For further information, see the of theRestructuring, is currently under review.
In the meantime Corporate Responsibility section we will continue to manage our waste in line with our annual on our website.
licence commitments, seeking to minimise waste generation where appropriate and improve disposal processes.
com 67 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED In 2014, the Group produced 72.8 million tonnes of waste, 42% For further information on our ethical less than in2013.
4.2million tonnes was attributable to continuing performance and the Speak-Up helpline, operations.
The majority of our waste volume is represented see the Corporate Responsibility section by overburden andtotal Group waste volumes are therefore on our website.
largely driven by mining activities.
The closure of the Zhezkazgan smelter, Satpayev and Berezovsky concentrators, as well asthe decreased electricity output from the power division, have also Pay and benefits contributed towaste reduction.
We aim to provide fair remuneration to our employees, and 31.1 million tonnes 43% of the Groups total waste production incentivise safety and productivity.
Each operational employees was reused or recycled, an increase of 8% from the previous year.
monthly salary comprises 70% base pay and 30% bonuses.
Half This includes overburden which is used to backfill completed mining of the bonus payment depends on achieving health and safety sections.
At the continuing operations, the recycling and re-use performance targets, and half is dependent on production targets.
Bonuses for divisional heads are based on health and safety performance, compliance with Government-set environmental Tailings management is a major focus in waste management and targets and the amount of environmental fines incurred, as well presents a significant environmental risk.
Tailings are regulated by as production efficiency and cost control.
the Governments subsoil use law and the Environmental Code.
The Group currently operates four tailings facilities for each of Following the devaluation of the tenge in February 2014, the Group its operational concentrators.
The facilities are subject to rigorous was among a number of significant employers in Kazakhstan to agree internal monitoring and risk assessment as well as regular inspections a 10% pay rise to its operational staff to help mitigate the impact by the regulatory authorities.
Tailings volumes are forecast as part of a weaker local currency on our employees and their families.
of annual production planning with specific capital expenditure provisions for repairs, maintenance and extensions.
In 2014, the In accordance with local regulations in Kazakhstan, we are required Group produced 29 milliontonnes of tailings, with 2.8million to make payments to employees and former employees for illness tonnes attributable to the continuing operations.
and disability sustained at our operations.
The financial impact of this obligationis covered in the Financial Review and the Employees Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 143 and 144.
General approach Equality and diversity Provision of stable employment and social security in the remote Our goal is to employ a skilled workforce that reflects the and economically undiverse regions where our Disposal Assets demographic of the regions in which we operate.
We aim to are located was one of thekey considerations during the execution develop the expertiserequired for our operations from our of theRestructuring.
As a result, the Restructuring proceeded existing workforce, recruiting locally where possible.
Our operations without causing any significant reductions in employee numbers are located in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan and in 2014, 99% of the ateither theDisposal Assets or continuing operations.
Prior to the Group employees were Kazakhstani or Kyrgyzstani nationals.
KAZ Minerals In circumstances where specialist skills are required, we draw now employs less than10,000people.
on international expertise with a view to transfer the knowledge Our producing assets are located in economically more diverse and best practice approaches in the medium to long term.
The regions and our employee turnover is therefore likely to increase number of expatriates at KAZ Minerals is very limited, and they following the Restructuring.
We aim to address the challenge are largely employed at our major growth projects working of attracting and retaining skilled staff by offering safe working alongsidelocal teams that will take over the management of conditions with fair remuneration and social benefits packages operations in due course.
for employees and their families.
Gender balance at our operations is relatively strong compared Ethics, compliance, anti-bribery and corruption to the global mining industry.
Women represent 31% of the KAZ Minerals Board holds ultimate responsibility for managing entire workforce, with29% at senior management level and our approach to ethics and compliance.
11% at Boardlevel one Board member.
The Group anti-bribery and corruption policy has been developed in line with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act and has been Gender diversity in force across all Group operations since 2011.
Prior to the Restructuring, employees in relevant positions, such as procurement, All employees 2,587 5,800 8,387 sales and those whose roles include interaction with the Government Managers 16 40 56 and regulatory bodies, received training on the policy and we continue Directors 1 8 9 to provide training to new joiners.
The code and policy are available Women to employees on our intranet portaland as printed leaflets.
Men In 2014, ethical business specialists GoodCorporation reviewed our progress withthe implementation of the Groupanti-bribery Training and development and corruption programme.
We were able to demonstrate Providing our employees with adequate training and development improvements in providing anti-bribery and corruption training opportunities increases productivity, efficiency and safety.
Training to staff, integrating relevant risks into the overall Group risk and development also benefits our business by building capabilities register, as well asin developing due diligence and procurement and leadership qualities that are critical to our growth strategy.
68 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT In 2014, Group employees received on average 46 hours of training.
Communities This includes mandatory safety training required by the regulator Social investment in Kazakhstan 40 hours per year for supervisory staff and 10 hours Social responsibility is one of the core aspects of our licence to for operational staff, but does not include additional in-house safety operate.
Social provisions are included in subsoil licences, and training, which is currently not recorded centrally.
Topics covered historically the Group has provided additional significant support included health and safety training, with a focus on electrical and fire to the communities in the more remote and less economically safety, labour protection training, physical fitness and professional diverse regions of our operations, where the Group often was development training.
The Disposal Assets undertake the majority the onlysignificant employer.
In 2014, social investment for the of professional training for operational staff at in-house colleges and Group amounted to$60million: this includedsponsorship, support training facilities, while thecontinuing operationsuse external providers and donations for community projects in the primary regions of to develop the workforce.
In 2014, as part of the operational cost our operations as well as projects on a national level prior to and control measures, some of the continuing operations temporarily following the Restructuring.
We expect this commitment to reduced the number of hours dedicated to non-critical reduce as the number of our assets and the size of our workforce professional training and development, without compromising has decreased as a result of the Restructuring.
We will continue on safety training commitments.
to work withregional authorities in identifying projects that are relevant to our business while benefiting the communities to the Due to theRestructuring, some of the internal training greatest extent possible in the long term.
Our main focus areas programmes envisaged for 2014 did not take place as roles include healthcare, infrastructure development, childcare, and locations of staff were changing.
This includes training education and sport.
modules for site and middle management, which areintended to resume in future.
The modules will focus on developing Prior to the completion of the Restructuring, the Group was management skills within KAZ Minerals, including communication, the largest copper producer and amongst the largest industrial planning and self-organisation.
As such, we recognised our responsibility for the development of the local economies and local enterprise.
Consultation and communication Previously the Group supported two small business associations in We respect the right to freedom of association and consult monotowns areas largely dependent on a single large employer.
our employees and trade unions about changes to our business The programme encourages the diversification of local economies and employment conditions.
in those areas and will continue to be run by the Disposal Assets.
All employees in boththe continuing operationsand the Disposal KAZ Minerals will focuson ensuring that the level of local procurement Assets are entitled to join a union of their choice.
In 2014, 92% of is maintainedto support the development and growth of a diverse the Groups employees prior to  to one of industry in Kazakhstan.
We seek to prioritise local procurement and the three trade unions active in the mining industry in Kazakhstan only use imported goods and services where there is no acceptable 88% of KAZ Minerals employees following the Restructuring.
The Group signed a new collective bargaining agreement in 2014 which was developed in coordination with representatives of For further information, see the Corporate major companies in the mining industry in Kazakhstan and trade Responsibility section on our website.
The provisions of the new collective agreement included measures to enforce a zero tolerance approach to safety breaches.
East Region management accordingly withheld bonus payments for teams involved in a series of serious health and safety incidents, which prompted objections from the workforce leading to Human rights negotiations between Group senior management, workers and KAZ Minerals recognises all human rights as defined in the the trade unions.
The matter was resolved with agreement by all Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We are committed parties on the importance of health and safety.
Other concerns to ensuring our operations do not infringe on these rights, for raised by employees through the trade unionsand addressed by instance by providing fair, safe and secure working conditions in managementin 2014 related to transportation arrangements, and line with the International Labour Organizations Declaration on housing conditions for shift workers.
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We respect the right to freedom of association and consult our employees and trade Health and safety issues are a shared priority between the unions about changes to our business and employment conditions.
Group and the trade unions.
The unionsengage actively with our sites to address the issue.
In line with the collective bargaining Local communities are consulted during project development agreement, 43 KAZ Minerals employees have been nominated and anymajor operational changes that may affect them, and as safety inspectors who report breaches they identify as part of we respect and protect local heritage and culture.
their weekly inspections to the trade unions, who then discuss the We do not tolerate any form of child or forced labour at any matters with the senior management.
Trade unions also play an of our operations.
We comply with local legislation with regard important role in our employee engagement activities, helping us to employee age, and as such do not employ anyone under the to stage sporting and cultural events for our employees and the age of 18. employees of other local companies.
com 69 Aktogay Aktogay is a large scale, low cost, open-pit copper mining project with many similar characteristics to Bozshakol.
Aktogay will commence production from oxide ore in Q4 2015 and from sulphide ore in 2017.
The mine has 5.8 MT of contained copper at a grade of 0.33% sulphide and will produce 90 kt of copper per annum in the first 10 years of operation.
For more information about our major growth projects, go to www.
com GOVERNANCE REPORT 72 Governance Framework 88 Remuneration Report 101 Other Statutory Information
