e c n a n STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility It is extremely important to us that we notonly achieve our strategic vision but that we do this in the right way We seek to ensure our business is sustainable while also behaving responsibly in relation to our key stakeholders, including the communities in which we operate, our people andtheenvironment.
Our Corporate Responsibility CR strategy coversfour key areas: The four key areas of focus are not separate and overlap in many ways.
The strategy for our people, the community and the environment has been well-established and communicated across our Group for a number of years.
Our supply chain strategy has previously operated at a brand level resulting in different levels of focus.
As we move towards our One Group business model, we are linking together the different elements ofour supply chain strategy to produce a more coherent andconsistent strategy across the Group.
Community People All four elements of our CR strategy are taken into consideration when key business decisions are made and the Board receives regular reports during the year on the key areas.
Responsibility for the overall CR strategy Environment Supply chain sits with our Chief Executive.
The governance around the four key areas is to ensure that we have aconsistent approach to risk management, strategy development and measuring progress against each key area.
The overall aims of our CR strategy are to: I u se our knowledge and expertise to create a positive impact on allour stakeholders and the communities in which we operate: I d evelop and promote a culture driven by our Group values, which inturn is reflected in how we conduct our business: and I e ngage, enable and empower our people so that they can make apositive contribution to our CR strategy and the causes that matterto them.
KCOM Group PLC 24 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 r e v o G Strategic report Why is this part of our CR strategy?
How does this link to the Group strategy?
Community We have a responsibility to the communities in which we operate: This links directly to our customers strategic pillar as our community inparticular ourKC brand has a significant impact on the local strategy, particularly in the Hull and East Yorkshire area, impacts community in Hull and East Yorkshire.
Our community strategy directly on the brand experience of our customers.
iskeytoensuring that we take our responsibility seriously in all ofourlocal communities.
People People are key to our business and to our ongoing sustainability.
This links directly to our people strategic pillar, which seeks to attract, Welisten to our people as key stakeholders in our business andensure develop, sustain and enable all of our people to achieve their full also that we meet our legal and moral obligations inrelation to the potential.
It also links to our partners strategic pillar as our partners health, safety and wellbeing of our people and anyone else who comes working alongside us aredirectly affected by our people strategies.
into contact with our business.
Environment We are not a significant polluter from an environmental perspective: This links to all of our strategic pillars: however, we need to ensure that we meet our obligations in relation to I the manner in which we manage our environmental impacts and environmental reporting requirements and environmental legislation.
theimpacts of the environment on our business directly affects Itis important that we measure and monitor our environmental impact ourcustomers and therefore our customers strategic pillar: so that we can make informed decisions in relation to environmental matters.
We must also consider wider environmental impacts on the I having a clear environmental strategy and enabling our people to Group as part of our ongoing strategy to protect the sustainability of identify how they can contribute to this is a motivational factor for the business.
our people: I environmental impacts, such as flooding, can have a direct impact on our processes and systems if we do not adequately plan to mitigate these risks: and I environmental impacts on our suppliers and partners can also directly impact our business if we do not adequately plan for these: therefore linking directly also to our partners strategic pillar.
Supply chain Our supply chain is crucial to the success of the business and it is essential This links directly to our partners strategic pillar, which focuses that this is managed effectively in order to manage the risk relating to onclosely collaborating with our partners and suppliers which in turn continuity of supply.
We believe also that we have an obligation to ensure directly leads to supply chain strategy.
that we source goods and services from suppliers with the right ethical Our supply chain choices also impact on our customers and therefore priorities and from sustainable sources wherever possible.
also link to our customers strategic pillar across the Group.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued Community We have no material social issues, however we are very aware of our potential impact in the local communities inwhichweoperate, particularly in the Hull and East Yorkshire region where we employ over 1,000 people, support 1 afurther400full-time local jobs and contribute over 150 million each year to the local economy.
We are proud to be part of local life and the potential impact on the local community is considered in all decisionsmadebythe Group.
Supporting local economic growth and business success Volunteering As businesses and consumers increasingly rely on online services to In addition to our activities in the Hull region, we also encourage all of communicate and do business, we have invested significantly inrolling out ourpeople to become involved in local community projects wherever superfast fibre-based broadband services in the Hull and East Yorkshire theyarebased.
area tohelpboost the regions economy and to transform the online lives of our customers, with download speeds including 100Mbps and 350Mbps.
We have formal partnerships in place with schools, charities and projects We announced the start of the fibre roll-out in 2012 and as at 31 March inareas where we operate across the UK.
During the year, our people 2014 we have passed 29,700 premises, with a commitment to pass donated 3,843 hours to community volunteering through our various 45,000 premises by 31March 2015. community programmes.
2 Unemployment rates in Hull are high in comparison to England as a whole, Our commitment to the local community was recognised in we therefore believe that we have a responsibility to support the local November2013 when the KCbrand was awarded the Community economy whenever we can.
We proactively adopt a buy local approach Involvement Award at the annual Hull Daily Mail Business Awards.
when purchasing goods and services, which means that two-thirds of these come from over 240 local suppliers.
We continued also this year our patronage of the Princes Trust, the UKs leading youth charity.
The Trust aims to change lives by offering training, In 2011 we launched an investment fund, called KC Invest, to provide personal development, business start-up support, mentoring and advice to start-up and growth financing for local businesses in the digital and young people.
As part of our support we entered two teams into the Million technology sectors.
The aim of this fund is to stimulate business growth Makers corporate challenge, in which each team aims to raise money for inthe local economy and help create new, sustainable jobs.
Since it was the Trust by setting up their own mini enterprise.
Our two teams raised over introduced, KC Invest has provided loan financing to 20 start-ups and small 17,000 for the Trust, with our Eclipse team winning first place in the South businesses, which in turn have supported 72 local jobs.
West region for their fundraising.
Community engagement prior to the launch of KC Invest highlighted that a In addition, we have sponsored and hosted a number of events to key area in which small businesses need support is with sales and marketing recognise the achievement of young people on Princes Trust programmes skills.
We therefore launched a series of Boost Your Business events and to encourage wider membership from business contacts.
featuring expert speakers, which are free for small businesses to attend.
Thefirst series of events was so successful that a second series was launched Group charity partner in May 2013, with events now taking place quarterly.
We work with a charity partner, chosen by our people who vote on a shortlist of UK-registered national charities.
In April 2012 we began a We have also supported 17 young people with grants through the Hull partnership with Sparks, a charity dedicated to funding pioneering research Youth Enterprise Bank to help them set up and develop their businesses.
into conditions affecting babies, children and mums-to-be.
The focus of Wefirmly believe that the enterprising young people of today are the Sparks is on improving the quality of life for children and families affected employers of tomorrow and therefore it is vital that we provide practical by serious illness or disability, while seeking ways to better diagnose, treat and financial support where we can to help these businesses get started.
and prevent these conditions in the future through medical research.
We are active supporters of the Hull Employability Charter and in thepast Since the partnership began in 2012 we have raised almost 150,000 year have taken on six apprentices to demonstrate oursupport.
forSparks through the dedication of our people participating in sporting challenges, dress down days, auctions, cake bakes and many other activities.
We have extended our partnership to 31 March 2015 after consulting with our charity champions and key fundraisers.
F or the 12 months to 30 September 2013 unemployment in the Hull City Council area was14.61% compared to 7.91% for England as a whole.
KCOM Group PLC 26 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Strategic report People Our people are essential to our success as a Group and are one of our key differentiators when we are seeking to win business.
It is therefore crucial to us that we can continue to attract the right skills, behaviour and talent for the Group, whilst continuing to motivate and develop the talented individuals already within our organisation.
We launched our current People Strategy in2010 with these aims in mind.
Values We work with a number of partners when performing manual work Our values are to be open and considerate, team-minded, flexible, andwe have clear processes in place to ensure that our partners are inspiring and innovative and we have invested in activities to competent and are operating in a healthy and safe manner.
We require communicate and embed these values across our Group since 2010. all of our suppliers of physical services to hold safe contractor status Part of this has been through a series of workshops entitled It Starts and seek to work with any smaller suppliers without this to help them with Me, which have been attended by over 1,000 of our employees.
We have held our annual health and wellbeing screening sessions, Development forthe fifth consecutive year.
These are open to all of our people Since the launch of our People Strategy we have provided andprovide a free and confidential health assessment measuring such comprehensive leadership training to all of our people managers, things as blood pressure, blood sugar levels, Body Mass Index and lung covering all areas of people management and providing 360 degree capacity.
592 of our colleagues attended these sessions in the year.
feedback to all participants, plus access to one-on-one coaching for Inaddition we provide employees with the option to purchase other allemployees and managers.
medical and dental services through our flexible benefits scheme.
We are working also on the production of a competency-based We continue to maintain our accreditation to the BS OHSAS 18001 framework across our organisation to enable greater career Health and Safety management standard and there were no fatalities management and personal development opportunities for those or health and safety enforcement notices in the year.
twoReporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR incidents 2013: one.
There were 13 working days lost in the Human rights year as a result of health and safety incidents 2013: 17.5.
We respect fundamental human rights consistent with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we ensure that Gender diversity allof our internal policies are consistent with this.
We do not have It is important to us that we achieve gender diversity at all levels of anycurrent human rights issues.
The gender diversity of the Group as at 31 March 2014 is setout below: Health, safety and wellbeing The health, safety and wellbeing of our people is of paramount Male Female Female % importance to us, along with the health, safety and wellbeing of our contractors, partners, customers and any members of the public who Board Directors 6 0 0% may be affected by our work.
Senior management team 11 6 35% We have rigorous training and clear Safe Systems of Work for all Other employees 1,198 702 37% ofourpeople engaged in manual work: we also have training for ouroffice-based workers and we undertake risk assessments with We are supportive of flexible working whenever possible and 15 per cent thosewho drive on company business, providing additional driver of our workforce works flexible hours, including 34 per cent of our training for individuals deemed to be at a higher risk.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued Environment As a Group we take our impact on the environment seriously and over the years have sought to reduce our emissions wherever possible.
We have recycling facilities atall of our main offices and we have a network of GreenChampions across the Group, who help to raise awareness of environmental matters in their local area.
Our emissions Our main environmental impact arises from the use of electricity, Breakdown of our emissions % whichaccounts for over 85 per cent of our CO e emissions.
This includes 2 electricity used at our offices, as well as at our data centres and network sites.
During the year our electricity usage has reduced by eight per cent 85% Premises Electricity from the prior year.
This is a result of energy efficiencies achieved through various IT initiatives and more detailed reporting of usage bysite enabling opportunities for energy savings to be more easily 7% Premises Other identified and implemented.
fuelandwaste The table below sets out our annual emissions in tonnes of CO e. 2 8% Business travel Year ended Year ended 31March2014 31March2013 Area CO e CO e 2 2 The impact of climate change Combustion of fuel and There has been a significant amount of flooding across Great Britain operation of facilities 3,147 3,968 during the year under review.
Despite a tidal surge affecting the centre of Hull, we are pleased to report that our business continuity process Purchase of electricity 18,344 20,014 provided adequate protection and none of our buildings or equipment 1 were affected.
However, we take the risk of flooding seriously and over Total 21,491 23,982 the last few years have installed powerful water pumps and flood Tonnes of CO e per 000 2 alarms at the sites we have identified as having a potential flood risk, ofrevenue 0.058 0.064 aswell as installing flood barriers to doors leading to basements and replacing air bricks at selected sites.
L ast year we reported total emissions of 26,600 tonnes of CO e. We have now restated 2 thecomparatives to reflect changes in the assumptions set out by the Department for Last year we also reported on CO e arising from business travel, the 2 Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra to ensure consistency with the emissions proportion of waste recycled and the amount of printer and photocopier reported this year.
We set ourselves targets to maintain all of these at 2012 13 levels.
During the year we achieved all of these targets.
We have calculated our emissions data using the GHG Reporting Protocol.
We will continue to monitor these figures going forward, however we donot believe that these are material to understanding our business performance and therefore will not report these in our Corporate Responsibility report in future years.
If you would like any further information on our environmental performance or further detail on anyof our emissions then please contact our Company Secretary, KathySmith.
Our environmental measures: Area Target 2013 14 Target met Actual Target 2014 15 Total CO e emissions Not to exceed 2012 13 levels 21,491 tonnes Not to exceed 2013 14 levels 2 of23,982 CO e 2 Landfill Not to exceed 2012 13 levels 12 tonnes Not to exceed 2013 14 levels of16 tonnes KCOM Group PLC 28 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Strategic report Supply chain We believe that we have responsibilities in relation to our supply chain, not only to try to ensure continuity of supply but also to do as much as we can to ensure that our suppliers operate with the same ethics and standards as us.
In devising our supply chain strategy we have considered the key risks in relation to the current supply chain.
Ethical sourcing The vast majority of products that we purchase come from suppliers Suppliers by geography within the UK.
During the year we imported only one per cent of the goods we bought, all of which came from Europe, North America, Australia and New Zealand.
In our KC brand we have a specific policy ofbuying local so two-thirds of our spend to support our KC brand waswith over 240 local suppliers.
99% UK We have a supplier code of conduct which all of our suppliers are required to adhere to.
This includes our requirements in relation to laws and ethical 1% Europe, North America, standards, labour practices, risk management and business continuity.
Australia and New Zealand We are also in the process of meeting with our top 10 suppliers to see first-hand how they approach ethical issues and how they ensure compliance with our code of conduct.
Continuity of supply We review continually our supply chain to ensure that we are able to have continuity of supply, or a viable alternative, should one of our key suppliers unexpectedly fail.
Electricity is clearly key to much of our business and therefore the threat of a significant power outage has been identified as a potential risk to the Group.
To mitigate this risk, each of our key sites has an on-site dedicated power supply back-up, with either permanent or mobile generator support in the event of long-term power outages.
These are all tested at regular intervals.
Contractual risk One of the key areas in which we need to manage risk in our supply chain is in our contracts with suppliers and subcontractors.
We have an in-house Legal team that is responsible for overseeing all of our bespoke contracts and they work hard to ensure that the Group does not take on an exposure which is outside of our control and that we contract fairly while mitigating risk where possible.
Signed on behalf of the Board Kathy Smith Company Secretary 18 June 2014 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 29
