Safety, Health and Environment Committee report Nick Winser Committee Chair by Kier in joint venture, in Hong Kong and at the Holborn Dear shareholders, site of the Crossrail project.
The Committees focus was to The health and safety of all those who visit and work ensure that the investigations relating to the incidents on the Groups sites, together with the protection of the were appropriately and thoroughly conducted, the environment, have been and will remain key priorities business co-operated with all key stakeholders including for Kier.
It is therefore important that the Group has a relatives, joint venture partners, clients and regulatory well-established and robust governance structure, led bodies, remedial actions were taken promptly and that by the Safety, Health and Environment Committee the learning points from the incidents were appropriately the Committee, to ensure that safety, health and communicated across the Group and implemented in environmental SHE matters are appropriately its safety procedures.
During the year, other areas of focus for the Committee During the year, the Committee has continued to focus included: on assisting management to drive the continuous Ensuring the effective integration of May Gurneys SHE improvement of SHE practices throughout the Group.
policies and procedures within those previously used At a strategic level, the principal focus has been on by Kier to ensure a consistency of approach across integrating May Gurneys culture, policies and procedures the Group: with respect to SHE matters.
Further details on the Ensuring that managements responses to regulatory Committees activities during the year are set out below.
investigations by the Health and Safety Executive and the Composition Environment Agency into incidents on the Groups sites The members of the Committee are: were appropriate: Ensuring that management closed-out any remedial Nick Winser chair actions after the reporting of high potential incidents: Kirsty Bashforth and Amanda Mellor Assisting management to continue to promote the The executive directors and the health and safety director benefits of, and encourage, the reporting of high are invited, and expected, to attend meetings, unless potential incidents and to ensure the communication of they are notified to the contrary.
The secretary of the the learning points from such incidents across the Group.
Committee is the company secretary.
The Committee Priorities for 2015 met formally four times in 2014.
The priorities for the Committee in 2015 will include: Role Providing oversight of, and support to management in The role of the Committee includes: relation to, the launch of a re-branded set of Group-wide Assisting the Board to review the Groups strategy SHE policies and procedures: with respect to SHE matters: Working with management to ensure an appropriate Encouraging management commitment and level of senior leadership visibility on sites: accountability with respect to managing the Groups Challenging management to continue to reduce the SHE risks: Groups AIR: and Reviewing and, as necessary, approving material Assisting management in the appointment of a new Group-wide SHE initiatives, policies and procedures: Group SHE director, following the departure of the Receiving reports on any major health and safety or previous director in August 2014. environmental incidents: and The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed Reviewing the Groups exposure to SHE risks and on the Companys website: http: www.
monitoring the Groups performance against SHE targets.
Principal activities in 2014 Kiers accident incidence rate AIR decreased by 26% Nick Winser since 30 June 2013 and May Gurneys AIR also decreased Chair of the Safety, Health and significantly, by 43%, since the acquisition of the business Environment Committee in July 2013.
However, despite the overall improvement in the Groups AIR, two fatalities occurred on sites operated Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 62
