38 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FAIR PLAY FAIR PLAY IS BUILT INTO THE WAY WE DO BUSINESS AT LADBROKES.
LEADING THE WAY IN RESPONSIBLE BETTING AND GAMING At Ladbrokes, we have always placed great emphasis on being a WE ARE LEADING THE WAY IN responsible company, pushing for high standards within our sector.
Inan industry undergoing rapid change, our view is that trust never goes out of fashion.
The continued scrutiny of the role of betting RESPONSIBLE BETTING AND GAMING, companies in society has prompted us, and the sector as a whole, toraise the game further.
We have embraced the regulatory and HAVING A POSITIVE IMPACT voluntary changes at the sector-level while also progressing our own initiatives, over and above the expectations of our stakeholders.
ONOURCOMMUNITIES AND Research suggests that problem gambling is a complex issue and thenumber of problem gamblers will not decrease by focusing on OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY.
That is why we have put in place a multi-faceted strategy which we will evolve in the years to come.
We are fully alignedwith the GB Gambling Commissions objectives to ensure thatgambling: is crime free: FAIR PLAY fair and open: and children and vulnerable people are protected.
Our activities are coordinated by a Head of Responsible Gambling, appointed in 2013, whose work is supported by colleagues across thebusiness.
In 2014, we created several new roles within our customer and integrity teams to help us maintain our leading position as a responsible company.
Taking our responsibilities seriously In July 2014 we established a new Board Committee to oversee ourdelivery against our responsible gambling objectives.
The Social LEADING THE WAY Responsibility SR Committee comprises of Senior Independent IN RESPONSIBLE Director, John Kelly Chair, and non-executive director, Christine BETTING AND GAMING Hodgson, with Chairman, Peter Erskine, and the Chief Executive, in attendance.
The Committee brings responsible gambling firmly into the Boardroom and has produced a set of KPIs that will help us link executive remuneration with responsible gambling performance from 2015 onwards.
This is a major step for us and a first within the sector.
Advertising responsibly HAVING A POSITIVE During 2014 we publicly committed to a set of voluntary measures IMPACT ON OUR tomake our advertising more responsible.
The initiative includes COMMUNITIES abanonadvertising sign-up offers on TV before 9pm, dedicating 20%of our shop window advertising space to responsible gambling messages and to the removal of gaming machine advertising fromshop windows.
We also launched the UKs first dedicated TVadtopromote responsible gambling with no promotional or salesmessages.
This formed part of our new Ladbrokes Life OPERATING campaign, which adopted amarkedly less aggressive tone than WITH INTEGRITY .
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 ON TRACK... WITH RESPONSIBLE GAMING Using algorithms to detect problem gambling In December 2014 we embarked on a pilot study to trackcustomer behaviour and intervene when we suspect problem gambling might be occurring.
Using data from Odds On cards, we systematically assess the gambling habits of approximately 8,000 shop customers on a weekly basis.
We defined a set of rules that may indicate a player showing signs of problem gambling andmonitor individual players behaviour against these.
Ifa customers gambling patterns trigger the algorithm, we message the person about their status and how to stay in control.
At the same time, we have tested the effectiveness of the intervention against a control group of customers in a different region.
We still have a lot to learn, but we believe this type of player protection arrangement is promising.
During 2015, we will dedicate more resources to the trial, expanding the coverage, experimenting with different ways of intervening and teaming up with external partners for greater insights.
We were founding members of the Senet Group, a new self-regulatory We provide tools to help customers stay in control of their gambling body dedicated to promoting responsible gambling standards and experience.
For example, customers using our gaming machines can toensure that the marketing of gambling is socially responsible.
set their own voluntary spend or time limits and will receive mandatory Fullyoperational from January 2015, the Senet Group will be able to timeand money-based alerts.
Notifications also appear behind the name and shame or impose fines on operators in breach of industry shop counter, prompting colleagues to interact with customers and to standards.
It will also launch the first cross-operator campaign to identify any potential problem gamblers.
promote responsible gambling in early 2015.
Over the past year, we have invested significant resources in Minimising harm developing digital insights into problem gambling patterns.
Using data We helped develop the Association of British Bookmakers ABB from our Odds On loyalty cards and working with external partners, Code on Responsible Gambling and Player Protection in 2013, we aim not only to detect and intervene when problem gambling thefirstof its kind worldwide.
This year we invested much effort in occurs, but to identify the trajectories that lead to such behaviour.
implementing it across our business.
This will also be a key priority Ifwebelieve a customer is on a trajectory towards harm, then we will for2015.
The Code highlights four areas for improved performance: interact with them to try and prevent this from happening.
Providing adequate information on how to gamble responsibly: Supporting research, education and treatment During 2013 and 2014, together with our four largest peers within Providing tools to help customers better control their activity: theindustry, we made our gaming machine data available for analysis Training staff to detect signs of potential problems: and byindependent researchers.
In analysing data from 6.7 billion bets Undertaking central analysis of data to spot signs of across8,297 shops, this was the first time an independent, large scale abnormalactivity.
research project into problem gambling had been undertaken in GreatBritain.
The findings were published in late 2014 and will be We have stepped up the promotion of responsible gambling usedto inform our responsible gambling strategy and our discussions messages.
As part of this, we have introduced more prominent, with key stakeholders.
morefrequent and clearer messages on staying in control in our shops, on our machines and across our digital estate.
We also promote multiple harm minimisation initiatives through our support of the Responsible Gambling Trust RGT.
Organisations that During 2014 all employees in the UK shop estate completed our benefitted from RGT funding in 2014 included GamCare, the National Positive Interaction programme.
This training helps colleagues Problem Gambling Clinic CNWL and the Gordon Moody Association.
understand player behaviour, interact on the shop floor and Our total contribution to RGT amounted to 682,500 in 2014. interveneifthey spot any signs of problem gambling.
In addition, Positive Interaction covers aspects such as dealing with anti-social behaviour, managing voluntary spend limits and completing selfexclusion agreements.
40 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Keeping our data safe HAVING A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR COMMUNITIES As an increasingly digital business, we hold large amounts of data on Being a good employer our customers, business partners and employees.
Safeguarding this We are an inclusive, people-driven business.
As our international data and ensuring data privacy remain a high priority to us.
During operations grow, we recognise the need to spot, retain and promote 2014, we stepped up our efforts using the UK Governments 10 Steps talent from a variety of backgrounds.
In 2014, we launched our to Cyber Security framework.
Following an independent assessment Females in Leadership programme to increase the number of of our systems and processes, we have a programme in place to women in senior positions.
Having completed a survey and a manage cyber risks, now and in the future.
benchmarking exercise, we are setting up a mentoring scheme to Measuring our performance nurture talent and are working to increase the visibility of female role External benchmarking is an important means of comparing our models.
During 2015, we also developed a consistent grading, talent th performance with that of our peers.
For the 12 consecutive year and performance and reward framework to help us achieve our global weremain a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI, ambitions.
Our policies remain consistent with the requirements of the an elite index for responsible companies.
We are the only European Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the spirit of the betting company included in the prestigious World Index, achieving International Labour Organization core labour standards.
maximum scores of 100% for our approach to responsible gambling Providing meaningful employment and our anti-crime measures.
Since 2002 we have also been a Now in its second year, Ladbrokes UK-wide apprenticeship member of FTSE4Good.
This year we were ranked in the 99th schemehas gone from strength to strength.
We received over percentile of companies in our industry segment, achieving maximum 14,500applications to join the scheme in 2014, with a selection scores for customer responsibility and corporate governance.
We lifted the maximum age-restriction of24years so that any talented candidate can secure a place.
The12-month, fullysupported development programme provides candidates with accredited training in customer service, literacy and numeracy and responsible gambling.
Upon completion, successful apprentices obtain an NVQ Level 2 in Customer Service and a position in one of ourshops.
2 UK employees only 86% of total employees.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Partnering against crime and anti-social behaviour Ladbrokes participates in the Total Tax Contribution survey by Reducing crime and anti-social behaviour remains a key priority for us.
 LLP, abenchmarking exercise comparing Where possible, we work in partnership with local authorities and other the total tax contribution of the biggest companies in the UK.
nd bodies to make this happen.
Our partners include Crimestoppers, The2014survey ranked Ladbrokes 32 for its taxes borne in the theAssociation of Business Crime Partnerships and the Safe Bet UKout of 103companies taking part inthe assessment.
We continue to support the SBAs Voluntary Code ofSafety & Security National Standards for Bookmakers, which OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY wehelped review and update in 2014.
In recognition of the results As with any major business, our activities have an impact on the achieved in reducing violent crime, the SBA was formally endorsed environment.
Our main impact is caused by the electricity and gas bythe Association of Chief Police Officers in June 2014.
Police figures used on our premises.
Fossil fuel consumption emits greenhouse obtained by the Association of British Bookmakers show that gases GHG which contribute to climate change.
Climate change bettingshops now have some of the lowest levels of crime among inturn poses a risk to our business, especially as we expand into highstreet retailers.
Valuing safety and well-being in the workplace Our carbon footprint We place great emphasis on health and safety H&S across our Unfortunately our GHG emissions increased by 11% in 2014.
This operations and monitor our performance on a monthly basis.
isprimarily because of the adjusted emission factor for the UK Grid During2014, we reviewed our approach to supporting colleagues Electricity, which is beyond our control.
The energy usage of our GB involved incritical incidents at work, ensuring they receive the correct shop estate increased by 4%, mainly due to 2014 being the UKs level ofsupport, rapidly and consistently.
Wehave pioneered Primary warmest year since records began in 1910.
Despite the increase, since Authority relationships in this area, working closely with Liverpool City initiating our ambitious energy-reduction programme in 2008, we have Council on general H&S and fire safety.
Such partnerships ensure reduced our GB GHG emissions by 20%.
Our plans to convert all our consistency in enforcement and regulation while bringing cost benefits UK shops to LED lighting, replacing over 98,000 fittings, regrettably to both regulators and ourselves.
This will now take place in 2015 and we fully A major contributor expect our energy consumption to decrease in the years to come.
According to research from 2013, the UK betting industry directly 1,2, 3,4 Global GHG emissions by revenue accounts for 2.3 billion toward GDP and 38,800 full-time equivalent jobs.
The broader economic footprint of the sector amounts to 2014 2013 5billion and around 100,000 full-time equivalent jobs in total.
Metric tonnes CO e per m net revenue 45.9 43.0 2 Ladbrokes employs over14,400 people across 14 countries, contributing substantially tothe communities in which we do business.
For more information In2014, we paid 258.2m inwages and salaries, of which 230m Our CR Report contains further details on Fair Play at Ladbrokes.
We spent anadditional 2.7m on sponsorships, Ourfull disclosure and supporting documents are available at creating benefits forthe widereconomy.
Paying our taxes Ladbrokes is a proud constituent of the following indices At Ladbrokes, we recognise the importance of taxes as a major revenue stream for governments and the vital services they perform.
Inthis respect, we are committed to: Complying with and following the law in all countries ofoperation: Being transparent in our reporting of tax affairs to all our stakeholders, meeting all regulatory requirements and reflecting 1 Based on 2014 UK Defra GHG reporting guidance and conversion factors and includes Scope1:direct emissions from the combustion of fuel and Scope 2: indirect emissions from best practice: thepurchase of electricity.
2013 data restated due to better data.
2 Emissions from our global operations include those arising from our businesses in the UK, Engaging proactively and openly with local and national tax Ireland, Belgium, Gibraltar and Spain.
Data for our recently acquired businesses in Australia, Israel and the Philippines is not included.
It is estimated based pro-rata on headcount that authorities: thiswill increase our global GHG emissions by nomore than an additional 0.5%.
3 Excluding fugitive emissions from refrigerants, which represent less than 2%of GHG emissions Driving sustainable returns for our shareholders.
During the year we paid over 21m in taxes to local councils in theUK and generated a further 233m in taxes to the UK Treasury and the greyhound and horseracing industries.
We paid an additional 27m in taxes throughout the world.
In summary, our effective tax-rate on profits amounts to 71.5%, which is far higher than for other non-betting retail companies.
