Laird PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate social responsibility Growing our business sustainably Driving strategic differentiation Our responsibility framework and customer diversification and Ethics developing the Company culture We have an unwavering commitment to high standards of business ethics.
We apply these form key elements of our strategy.
standards to all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for corporate social responsibility CSR and recognises that behaving Environment, health & safety ethically, working safely, reducing our environmental We control our environmental impacts by working impact, attracting, recognising and rewarding our hard to ensure our sites are safe and that natural people and contributing to our communities creates and resources are used carefully.
We can create cost sustains long-term value for our shareholders and our efficiencies by reducing waste which in turn reduces wider stakeholders.
costs and helps improve our operating margins.
We work with our customers, suppliers and employees Employees to determine the issues that are material to our business by a continuous process of review, consultation We aim to attract and retain the best people by and assessment.
creating a rewarding place to work which offers great opportunities.
We aim to build a pool of talent We look to mitigate risk and improve our operating who can work together to deliver our companyefficiencies by being a responsible organisation.
The outputs of aligning our corporate social Communities responsibility throughout our business are fourfold: sustained growth, lower environmental impact, We support the communities in which we work by stronger communities and ultimately, robust considering the impact of what we do and fulfilling stakeholder relationships.
To achieve our business goals we need to look after the communities, people and environment which support our operations, so we can continue delivering value to all our stakeholders.
David Lockwood, OBE Chief Executive Laird PLC 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ethics 2014 highlights: We have an unwavering commitment to high standards We win the Recognition of Achievement award of business ethics.
We apply these standards to all from Ford Motor Company for commitment to dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other environmental and social responsibility.
We place a high priority on compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements and on Ethics the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each The Risk and Governance Group has overseen of the territories and jurisdictions in which we conduct our CSR programme, including reviewing and our business.
approving the Global Code of Conduct and all otherprimary policies.
Our Global Code of Conduct the Code provides the guiding principles and forms the basis for how we do Our Lean Six Sigma Continuous Improvement business and is underpinned by the common values Programme delivered approximately 6.8m of honesty, integrity and fairness.
The Code, which in savings.
is available on our website and reviewed annually, provides the framework for our policies, processes and Our current Carbon Disclosure Project submission received the highest score we have received to date procedures relating to human rights, equal opportunity, ethics, compliance, anti-harassment, conflicts of interest as it continues to improve each year.
Environment, health & safety Our global Ethics Hotline provides a confidential way No major environmental compliance issues at any for employees to raise concerns about inappropriate facility globally in 2014. behaviour anonymously.
The hotline utilises an 14 Laird facilities currently hold active Integrated independent telephone and internet provider, offering Management Systems IMS certification status to support in local languages and has an internal escalation ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 standards: two facilities and resolution process.
A review of the independent hold active ISO 14001 certification.
All of these telephone and internet provider is currently underway facilities successfully completed certification, reand will be concluded shortly.
certification or surveillance audits during the year.
FTSE4Good Overall electricity usage kWh, per $1m of revenue across all locations, decreased by 12.2% We have been a member of the FTSE4Good Index 2014,78,603: 2013,89,571.
Series since 2004 with an overall Environmental, Social and Governance rating of 3 out of 5.
This index Our Shanghai Performance Materials: Shanghai has been designed to objectively measure the Telematics: Shunde and Chongqing factories performance of companies that meet globally in China successfully achieved Work Safety recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Standardisation grade 3 certification from the Our stakeholders can use this index to make Chinese government.
investment decisions, as a benchmarking tool or Our Shanghai Performance Materials site in purely for research purposes.
We can also use this China received for a second consecutive year the as a reference by which we can assess the progress Advanced Unit of Safe Production award for 2014 and achievement of our evolving corporate social issued by the Shanghai Xinzhuang Industrial Park responsibility programme.
criteria are updated on a regular basis and continuous improvement is required to merit ongoing inclusion Employees in the index which is reviewed semi-annually in An online learning management system called March and September.
The criteria are also regularly KNOWLEDGEnetwork that provides in excess of assessed by Ethical Investment Research Services 100 different e-learning courses was launched.
EIRIS, an independent research organisation.
Communities During the year we donated 26,925 2013,30,925, including our share of the schools assistance programme, to charities worldwide.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate social responsibility continued We met the qualifications set out by Ford for their Governance Recognition of Achievement awards, including ISO 14001 CSR governance structure Certification.
For the Corporate Responsibility Award, we submitted examples of policies and procedures that highlight the Companys commitment to general corporate citizenship, environmental leadership and social responsibility leadership.
We also provided results of Company programmes aimed to reduce landfill waste, water conservation and energy use.
As examples of the Companys commitment to being a good corporate citizen, we shared information about outreach efforts and charity events hosted by local facilities Board aroundthe world.
Risk and Governance Group Business units Community Policy Officer Tom Cochran second from left receives the Ford Recognition of The governance structure of our CSR programme Achievement award.
provides clear lines of responsibility from the operational level to the Board.
Strong governance is essential to An Operations Leadership team was established embedding responsible business practices across in 2013 to support the development of worldwide the Group.
The strategy is developed and overseen innovative operations solutions that are critical to by the Risk and Governance Group RGG which is enhancing our competitive position and enabling our chaired by the Chief Executive and includes the Chief strategic differentiation.
The team is chaired by the Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Human Vice President of Quality and Continuous Improvement Resources Officer and the Company Secretary who also and membership is comprised of the Vice President of fulfils the role of Community Policy Officer.
Outcomes, Operations from every business unit as well as senior IT actions and issues from all meetings are reported to representatives.
This team facilitates interaction between the Board at each meeting.
The RGG works alongside different parts of the business in order to collaborate functional heads in each business unit to develop their and leverage expertise to solve operational challenges own CSR priorities within the strategy established for more rapidly.
We aim to ensure we consistently deliver the Company.
The Community Policy Officer works to our customers by assessing the safety, quality, service alongside the Chief Executive and the Board to liaise and cost of our operations and deliver our solutions at with the businesses and decide on charitable donations speed which requires flexible operations.
and community projects that will be supported Our business model helps provide the framework duringthe year.
to allow us to have appropriate planning and risk management in place so we can mitigate the risks Delivering to our customers thathave the potential to disrupt our business.
In 2014, we were recognised for our work in the area of Corporate Responsibility with the Recognition The Operations Leadership team has undertaken several of Achievement award from Ford Motor Company.
initiatives in 2014 that are improving our manufacturing The Recognition of Achievement awards honour processes worldwide.
In addition, the team has suppliers who improved customer satisfaction by increased the Lean Six Sigma deployment efforts in all providing significant contributions in key areas including of our business units operations which have resulted new customer-focused technology and corporate in significant space savings, manpower savings, scrap responsibility.
The award was part of Fords 16th annual reductions and lead time reductions across all targeted World Excellence Awards held in May 2014 at their production lines.
Laird PLC 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 During the year we continued to see measurable gains Localised sourcing in our manufacturing processes and product quality alongside cost reductions through our Lean Six Sigma We are focused on mitigating risk associated with the CIP programme, which delivered approximately 6.8m supply of raw materials.
There were several notable in savings.
A second supplier for a key raw ingredient for our thermal materials was established The Operations Leadership team utilises our well in China close to a manufacturing site which reduced established Continuous Improvement Process CIP the reliance on a single supplier located outside of programme to drive its improvement objectives China.
Additionally, the manufacture of a critical worldwide.
The CIP programme contributes to electronic component was insourced to the Group improvements in overall business processes by ensuring away from two suppliers located in a country where our plants deliver high quality product and increasing geo-political instability could have stopped the flow of operational efficiency and responsiveness to customers.
This in turn positively benefits our profitability and customer satisfaction.
Customer satisfaction is measured Environment, health & safety through formal customer surveys and customer centric internal KPIs.
Information is reviewed by the businesses In 2014 we are pleased to report that there were no and support teams and through continued assessment major environmental issues at any facility globally.
We strive to continually improve customer We work with our customers and suppliers to ensure we satisfaction and ensure lessons learned are fed back into run responsible and efficient operations and look after the product development and deployment processes.
the welfare of our employees.
Our CIP efforts in 2014 and our focus on reducing the As all manufacturing processes and resources have number of customer complaints has resulted in a 12.5% some impact on the environment, we strive to seek ways reduction in the customer complaint rate year-on-year.
to optimise our operations to ensure the efficient use Building strategic partnerships with our suppliers of energy and the minimisation of waste.
Our goal is to continually deliver improvements to address these areas We have built up strong relationships with our suppliers and create cost savings for the business.
over many years and they are critical in helping us achieve our strategic objectives and delivering on our Through the development of some of our products we differentiation.
They also play a significant role in our also aim to help our customers reduce their impact on CSR programme supporting our efforts with the schools the environment.
Our thermal business, for example, projects outlined on page 29. produces thermally conductive circuit boards for LED lights which help to remove excess heat, improving their Our aim is to procure the best value goods and services performance and lifetime.
Our power supply assemblies from suppliers that meet our standards and deliver are able to utilise temperature differentials to generate the services that our customers demand.
We expect power for sensor systems, eliminating the need to run our suppliers to comply with all appropriate legislation expensive electrical wiring and often harvesting waste and conform to high ethical, social and environmental heat as an additional power source.
Furthermore, six new standards in line with the EICC Code of Conduct, Fabric over Foam FOF gasket and Conductive Foam including the highest standards for health and safety.
products were released in 2014 that are all halogen We have a robust procedure for supplier selection free, in line with the International Electrochemical and qualification.
We review our suppliers quarterly Commissions IEC standard IEC-61249-2-21, and meet through our periodic supplier evaluation tool which was the flame retardant requirements of the Underwriters implemented in 2013 and uses a quality score together Laboratories UL standard UL 94.
All of these new with evaluation report to monitor performance.
products are a part of the Laird EcoGreen trademarked family of products.
We are continuing our efforts globally to localise raw material supplies.
Local suppliers are preferred to Sustainability initiatives reflect our continuing drive to support the communities Our manufacturing sites are expected to develop in which we operate, as well as for the efficiencies sustainability plans to reduce their energy, waste and inproduction costs.
Lead times are also reduced and water usage, for example: transportation costs and effects are minimised.
Our site in Reynosa, Mexico installed a variable speed We aim to source non-conflict minerals by ensuring air compressor in the plant air system to run based on our supply base is risk managed and selected suppliers manufacturing demand.
With the new configuration, are sent an EICC survey form to obtain a declaration the secondary, fixed rate compressor only runs when as to the conflict mineral free status of their supply the variable speed compressor demand capacity is chain.
The responses are collated into a company level exceeded.
This change should yield electricity savings report that is sent to customers who request them.
As a supplier we are also audited by our customers inthis regard.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate social responsibility continued In Shunde, China, the site replaced three old ball Carbon Disclosure Project mills with a new vibration mill and auto-slurry system resulting in electricity savings of 873,000kWh annually.
In order to continue building good relationships Two electric baking ovens were also eliminated from with our customers and suppliers we strive to be as the process resulting in energy savings of transparent as possible.
We participate in the annual 96,000 kWh year.
Production was also moved to a Information Request by the Carbon Disclosure Project new energy efficient and higher capacity electric kiln to demonstrate the steps we are taking to improve allowing the site to retire and remove from service energy efficiency and resource use across our all low efficiency box kilns.
This should result in total operations.
Our 2014 submission received the highest energy savings of 306,769 kWh annually.
score we have received to date and it continues to improve year-on-year.
We achieved a Carbon In Tianjin, China, the site installed a new ventilation Disclosure score of 87 2013, 76.
This is categorised system that utilises fresh, cold outside air in the 1 as a high score.
We achieved a Carbon Performance autumn and winter months to cool a test equipment score within band C 2013, C, in line with the average room.
This modification eliminated the need to run score of participants.
air conditioning equipment and led to associated electricity savings of 23,800kWh year.
The site CO emissions 2 also installed radiant heat in the aluminium powder mixing room by tapping into the existing industrial We have adopted a standard for our methodology park steam system, eliminating the use of two electric of reporting based on our geographic locations and heaters and leading to associated electricity savings of both current and previous year emissions have been 112,320kWh year.
We derive our Greenhouse Gas emissions GHG by using an emissions calculator within Smaller conservation projects in 2014 included: the EICC Carbon Reporting System tool that converts Our plant in Liberec, Czech Republic replaced actual site-level energy usage data into tonnes CO2 approximately 50% of fluorescent bulbs and fixtures equivalent direct and indirect emissions.
Our emissions in production areas with energy efficient lighting.
have been calculated based on the Greenhouse Gas 2 This resulted in annual electricity savings of Protocol.
Throughout 2014 we monitored energy 216,720 kWh.
The site also replaced old, draughty usage and carbon emissions in our largest seven sites windows with new, energy efficient windows to with an activity-based reduction target of 5% relative prevent heat loss.
The change reduced natural gas to total hours worked.
These seven sites account for 3 consumption 9,838 m per year and also eliminated over 80% of our scope 1 and scope 2 CO2 emissions.
the associated 19 metric tonnes of CO2 greenhouse Total greenhouse gas emissions at these sites in 2014 gas emissions to the air.
were 42,805 tonnes of CO2, approximately 9.3% below 2013 levels 47,204 tonnes of CO2.
The majority of the The facility in Shenzhen, China replaced 2,000 factory reduction can be attributed to our operations in Shunde, lamps with energy efficient LED lamps, resulting in China as the site implemented multiple energy savings annual electricity savings of 201,600 kWh.
projects in 2014 and they also worked approximately 18% less hours.
At our Earth City, USA site high bay warehouse metal halide lamps were replaced with high efficiency LED lamps.
Annual electricity savings of 221,391 kWh.
Tonnes of CO2 equivalent We also focus on a sustainable supply chain and global Scope 1 4.7% efforts are being made to localise raw material supplies, 1 Scope 2 95.3% manufacturing operations and significantly reduce the Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions number of product and material shipments that are from sources that are owned or controlled by expedited by air, by using consolidated ocean shipments.
the entity such as fossil fuels burned on site and other direct sources.
Scope 2 emissions Measuring our progress are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the 2 generation of electricity, heating and cooling, We have non-financial KPIs which provide an ongoing or steam generated off site but purchased benchmark of the effectiveness of our CSR programme bythe entity.
Tonnes CO2 $1m revenue kWh $1m revenue 89,571 68.36 78,603 58.77 2013 2014 2013 2014 1 2 Typically indicates Senior management understand the business issues G reenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely used international accounting related to climate change and are building climate related risks and tool for government and business leaders to recognise, quantify, opportunities into core business.
Laird PLC 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Occupational health and safety Waste to landfill tonnes $1m revenue Protecting the occupational health and safety of all our employees remains a priority.
We commit significant 0.75 0.72 time and resource to monitoring and assessing processes that could cause injury.
We conduct regular safety audits, and workplace safety training is delivered to all operations teams.
During 2014, additional global Environmental, Health and Safety EHS tools were developed and implemented by our Operations 2013 2014 Leadership team in order to improve the identification and evaluation of potential safety risks across our Waste management worldwide operations.
These tools complement those initiated in 2013 and are designed to be proactive in We have an ongoing programme to examine how we preventing incidents by focusing on removing physical can further minimise the generation of waste in order to hazards.
The site safety audit tool and job hazard protect the environment and reduce costs.
There was analysis tool provides a standardised process by which anincrease in waste to landfill tonnes generation in sites can be systematically inspected to identify hazards 2014 at 668 tonnes 2013, 627 tonnes, which can be and the appropriate controls implemented to reduce the largely attributed to the inclusion of several new sites risk of accidents and injuries.
in the 2014 reporting cycle that were not included in the 2013 inventory.
However, the overall activity ratio Worldwide employee headcount for our operations ofwaste to landfill per $1m of sales has decreased in increased while the number of reportable injuries 2014 to 0.72 tonnes.
The rate of reportable injuries, per 100 employees annualised, also remained Water usage at 2013 levels of 0.21 based on an approximate 1.2% In 2014, we continued to monitor and measure water increase in hours worked from the previous year.
In 2014, we monitored and The number of minor injuries decreased from 51 to measured a total of 450,115 cubic metres of water 41, reflecting our increased safety awareness efforts.
Approximately 90% of water The number of hand and finger injuries reduced from usage is from our seven largest Asia-Pacific facilities 22% in 2013 to 4% in 2014 as we continue to focus 401,199 cubic metres.
on reducing the number of reportable injuries across all locations.
Currently, we have a water treatment and recycling process in a number of plants.
For example, in our Shenzhen facility in China, contaminated rinse water Reportable incidents per 3 100 employees annualised is captured from plating operations and treated to sort solids and metals.
It is then pumped through a 0.21 0.21 series ofspecialised filters to purify the contaminated wastewater to an acceptable level to return to the plating lines forre-use.
In 2014, several sites completed initiatives to reduce their water usage, for example: Our plant in Liberec, Czech Republic installed pressure 2013 2014 switches on the faucets in the personnel locker rooms to reduce the consumption of hot and cold water and conserve 312 cubic metres of water.
The Reynosa facility in Mexico installed equipment to regulate water consumption in their production lines rather than have a constant flow of water through their tank systems.
This change conserved 979 cubic metres of water in 2014.
Having also established a reliable baseline for measuring our water consumption we are looking for opportunities to extend this process across other sites.
As we set goals and initiatives for 2015 we plan to utilise this data to expand our water conservation efforts.
3 W e have adopted US OSHA Occupational Safety and Health to ensure we are consistent in our definitions and that we are accurately Administration reportable accident definitions across Laird in all regions capturing notification and data on all reportable accidents that occur.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate social responsibility continued Employees 2014 Workplace safety initiatives We believe that our people help determine the future of During 2014, the following health and safety initiatives our business: they are the ones who reflect our values, were developed and implemented: run our operations and ensure we maintain Lairds good relationships with our stakeholders.
Our Shanghai Performance Materials site added an anti-skid coating to the floor in the employee Management approach dining hall as a preventive safety measure to reduce Our business principles, Global Code of Conduct and the likelihood of slip and fall injuries on the slick core company values have helped create a distinctive tile surface.
To help reinforce this we ensure In Shunde, China, the factory made major industrial all employees take the Employee Code of Conduct hygiene improvements to the working environment assessment each year.
for employees through over 100 projects and quick We recognise that we need to attract high quality win improvements to control and capture iron people whilst retaining the skill and knowledge already powder dust generated during the manufacturing present to give us a competitive advantage in the market process.
Those initiatives included manufacturing and continue to lead the way in product development.
process simplification, shortening material To do this we need to: transportation distances and reducing material pouring in the open environment and plant exhaust Maintain the right leadership culture.
Support our employees in their personal and professional growth.
Process safety management Have an unwavering commitment to being honest To reduce risks associated with all of our chemical and ethical.
processes, we are continuing to effectively address Restriction of Hazardous Substances RoHS and Provide a safe, stimulating work environment.
This is achieved through proactive contact with our suppliers and continued periodic sampling of materials Recognising and rewarding performance deemed to be high risk through established internal We offer competitive remuneration packages in 1 protocols at our CNAS-A2LA certified, high precision each of the markets within which we operate that are RoHS laboratory in Shenzhen, China.
We have in place In 2014, over 10,000 samples were tested for RoHS comprehensive performance-based reward systems restricted substances in our laboratories in Shenzhen with the aim of attracting and retaining the best people.
Our decision to conduct in-house We also have awards schemes which celebrate those testing resulted in net savings of approximately 0.6m employees who put our values into practice.
It is important to our success that the structure and We also continue to actively address customer enquiries level of our remuneration and rewards are consistent for REACH compliance data for our products, and across the company.
A profit sharing plan was set up develop our supply chain to ensure we continue to meet during 2013 with the purpose of sharing a portion of all REACH legal compliance obligations and supply the Company profits with employees in the Company.
products into the EU without disruption.
Three phase-in The plan is based on sharing a percentage of profits, substances were pre-registered in 2014 with anticipation above approved targets.
The plan is self-funding and the of full registration in May 2018 based upon the aim is to align the entire organisation in achieving the importation band of 1-100 metric tonnes.
Companys goals and objectives and sharing as a team, the rewards of these efforts.
It is a strategic corporate directive that all our manufacturing sites deemed to have an environmental One Laird Recognition Programme impact and EHS risk should implement certified During 2014, the One Laird Recognition Programme was integrated management systems to ISO 14001 and launched.
The purpose of the programme is to enable OHSAS 18001 standards.
employees to show their appreciation to team members across the Company by awarding Recognition Points Fourteen facilities currently hold active Integrated which may be earned and then redeemed for a variety Management Systems IMS certification status to of rewards.
ISO14001 OHSAS 18001 standards and two facilities hold active ISO 14001 certification.
All of these facilities successfully completed certification, re-certification or surveillance audits during the year.
Newly certified locations in 2014 include Chongqing, China obtaining OHSAS 18001.
1 T he national accreditation body of China responsible for the Laboratory Accreditation A2LA under the international accreditation of certification bodies, laboratories and inspection bodies.
This certification is also recognised by the American Association for Laird PLC 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Supporting employee development where multiple teams from each site could participate.
The event was viewed as a huge success and helped We place great importance on our Company-wide promote teamwork, collaboration and the One performance management process which aligns Laird spirit.
individual objectives with the Companys strategy.
There is regular consultation between managers and employees to help support career development and reinforce the link between business goals, an employees contribution and his her remuneration.
We have established a Total Rewards Strategy scheme which includes Career Ladders and Career Aspiration tools on each employees online portal to help guide their career development decisions.
We believe in investing in our employee development and offer various training schemes which are aligned to enhance the relevant skills required in each respective field.
Our corporate training focuses on culture and compliance and leadership development, whilst other The Laird olympic teams.
types of training fall under the specific operational areas.
Additionally, during 2014, we created an online Learning Building strong leadership Management System, called KNOWLEDGEnetwork.
We see strong leadership and managerial capabilities The KNOWLEDGEnetwork is an online platform as central to achieving our business objectives and designed to deliver educational courses and track sustained success in the technology sector.
We want to participants progress.
It offers in excess of 100 different cultivate a talented management team which possesses e-learning courses.
We are a strong supporter of the right leadership culture for our Company and continuing education and with each option being a selfproactively look to identify ambitious employees with study on demand course, employees have the freedom the correct skills as future leaders.
to choose what they want to study, when and wherever We launched our leadership curriculum in 2014 by it is convenient to them.
providing 40 hours of leadership development training Promoting the health and welfare of our employees is to the top 250 leaders in the Group.
The programme a priority for us in order to protect our people, boost focused on self awareness, leading diversity, morale and enhance productivity.
During 2014, we ran a coaching others and driving a collaborative culture.
variety of wellness activities across our US sites including This programme began with the Chief Executive and the marathons, hikes, self-defence classes, ping pong top 60 leaders in the Group then cascaded throughout tournament, basketball tournament and flu vaccinations the organisation.
An additional 350 managers will be and wellness fairs.
Employees also raised money for the trained in 2015.
A follow-on programme is currently American Heart Association, American Breast Cancer being designed focusing on talent management Society, Alzheimers Association and the Movember and willbe cascaded to the same 250 leaders of the charity through some of these activities.
Leadership meetings are also organised several times a year to help foster relationships across the business and ensure our leaders are aligned to our strategic ambitions and future goals, as explained in the Chairmans statement and the business model.
Creating a diverse workplace Creating an equal, fair and diverse workplace has always been a priority for Laird.
For Laird diversity comprises differences in ethnicity, language, gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, physical ability, experience and education.
We operate an Equal Opportunities and Human Rights policy and consider this to be our commitment to our employees feeling respected, valued and able to fulfil their potential.
It is our policy to recruit the most capable person available for each position and applicants are selected solely on the basis of their qualifications and suitability The Chattanooga team who participated in the Alzheimers walk.
In June 2014, we were proud to hold our first annual Laird As detailed in the Nomination Committee section of olympic games in Shanghai.
The event included more the Corporate governance report, it is the Companys than 580 employees and their families from four facilities aim to have the appropriate level of diversity to reflect in North Central China.
The games included table tennis, the diverse nature of the Companys operations.
badminton, basketball and soccer and each facility was This includes gender diversity and the following outlines represented by one team.
There were other team events Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate social responsibility continued the gender profile of the organisation.
We believe that Communities a balanced workforce will ultimately help us achieve our We believe that maintaining a good relationship between strategic goals.
There is currently one female director on our business and the broader society in which we the Board of Directors as shown on pages 50 and 51. operate is fundamental to long-term business growth.
All Company Female Male Charitable donations and community involvement A budget is agreed each year by the Board of Laird 53% PLC for charitable donations and community projects.
The Chief Executive and Community Policy Officer work 47% alongside others in the Company to agree the projects for the year.
Executive Team During the year, we donated 26,925 2013, 30,925 to charities worldwide, including our share of the schools 14% assistance programme, which is explained in greater detail below.
86% David Lockwood visited Lairds site in Reynosa, Mexico and handed over a cheque for $500 to Nucleo Solidario Leadership Team fide Discapacitados Productivos, which is a charity which helps 310 people in Reynosa with various disabilities to 14% be self-sufficient by making and selling cakes, sweets and crafts.
Since 2010, we have invited this charity 86% to our Reynosa site to sell their cakes and crafts to the employees.
Management Team 17% 83% Retaining talent Worldwide average headcount for our operations decreased from 9,279 in 2013 to 8,922 in 2014, largely due to automation and operational efficiencies.
Our worldwide annualised employee turnover rate in David Lockwood presents a cheque for $500 to Nucleo Solidario fide 2014 has remained at 2013 levels of 14.8%.
to drive cultural initiatives in our manufacturing sites in China to counter the increase in competition locally.
DEMAND The continued automation in our factories is lessening In 2014, we again helped fund a student placement at our reliance on the number of manufacturing resources DEMAND: Design and Manufacture for Disability a required.
We continue to retain our knowledge charity dedicated to solving the challenges of living workers with a less than 9.2% attrition rate globally.
and working that people with disability face every Our commitment to our engineering and technology day.
DEMANDs student placement scheme aims to teams through career advancement and investment positively influence the design thinking of tomorrow.
in R&D allows us to provide an innovative work Working closely with their experienced designers and environment for our employees.
craftspeople, young designers are given invaluable, hands-on experience of solving real problems for real Worldwide headcount people and take with them a design philosophy which has inclusivity at its heart.
8,922 2014 9,279 2013 Laird PLC 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Also during 2014, our employees participated in a range of locally based activities, including volunteering, sponsored walks, gift programmes and cake sales.
For example, employees at the Kunshan site volunteered to pick up rubbish at a nearby Forest Park.
They picked up 50kg of rubbish.
The specially designed Summerbug Trike.
One of the student projects in 2014 was The Summerbug Trike designed by Emily Tulloh.
The British Design council have recognised Emily as one to watch as they believe she represents the future of Employees from the Kunshan site collecting rubbish.
Emily has been chosen from hundreds of entrants for her outstanding vision, ambition and potential to contribute to the UKs reputation as a leading design nation.
Emily is the first designer to appear in the category happier & healthier see http: www.
uk ones-watch-winners for further information.
Supporting local communities Since 2012, we have worked with our suppliers to assist schools.
In 2014, we, together with our suppliers, supported two schools in China and undertook three different initiatives but still with the theme of supporting children.
The Tu Men Public Primary School and the Xin Chang Public Primary School in Nan Chong City, China The cheque for $10,300 being presented to YouthQuest.
were provided with new desks and chairs and table tennis tables.
In Malaysia, together with some of our suppliers, we chose the Shan Childrens Home in Penang.
This home, which relies entirely on donations, provides residential care for 15 children between the ages of 5 and 19 years.
The donations will help with the running costs of the home and transportation costs for the children to go to school.
Our Liberec site identified a local charity, Childrens Centre, Sluniko, which needed musical instruments and other equipment for its music therapy programme.
Finally, Laird and our suppliers donated $5,000 to The handover ceremony at Shan Childrens Home in Penang.
YouthQuest, a comprehensive, free after-school programme run by the Flint & Genesee Chamber of Commerce in Michigan, USA.
Twelve of our suppliers agreed to match our donation and a cheque for $10,300 was handed over to YouthQuest in December 2014.
This donation helped purchase the science, technology, engineering and maths STEM curriculum for the students.
Steve Brown, Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Telematics business which is based near Flint, commented, At Laird we know that a sound education will help the next generation of engineers develop the skills needed to change the world through innovation.
We are proud to support the Petr Strof, Liberec Site General Manager, with children and staff at the STEM curriculum.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Principal risks and uncertainties Laird faces the normal business risks including the retention and protection of our people and continuity of our operations, however, the following summarises the principal risks which are more distinct because of our market, industry and global footprint.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities Strategic and markets Competition and Laird operates in market sectors which are characterised Protecting our position by maintaining market conditions by a high level of competition between suppliers and and extending a broad customer base and whichare driven by rapid technological change.
Changes monitoring the market to support a swift in market dynamics could have a material adverse effect response to market changes onLairds financial condition and prospects.
Developing the business into new and attractive growth markets in line with Lairds competitive position may suffer were it unable to strategic objectives maintain customer mindshare in delivering technological innovation in a highly competitive environment.
Maintaining a competitive manufacturing base Lairds products and solutions include technologies in Differentiating Laird with customers through which it holds intellectual property rights which may be our focus on innovation, reliable fulfilment subject to infringement, counterfeiting or misappropriation.
and speed to achieve customer mindshare, Claims could be asserted against Laird that it has infringed and where overall margin objectives can intellectual property owned by others and such claims be maintained might require Laird to incur legal costs or face legal Contract review and negotiation through restrictions on selling certain products.
in-house legal team and external advisers The loss of a major contract or erosion of business with Maintaining a robust intellectual property a key customer, whether through competitive action or programme to reinforce defence against any change in strategy or ordering requirements from alleged breaches, proactively protect existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on portfolio IP and growing development of Lairdsfinancial condition and prospects.
products with a higher IP protected content Maturing products in large markets could lead to Using a range of trade secrets, confidentiality competitive erosion of margins and profits.
policies, non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements to protect intellectual A highly competitive market environment and structure property rights can drive pressures for imbalanced contractual terms which could lead to significant penalties and costs if breached.
Developing the skills, experience and performance of employees and their relationships with customers Introducing innovative new products in a timely manner to meet customer needs Macro economic During an economic downturn or delayed recovery, Monitoring of economic and and political factors customers may cancel, reduce or postpone anticipated political indicators orders, or apply pressure to prices and margins, any of which Close control and reduction of costs may result in lasting changes in terms of trade pricing policies, delivery capabilities and market expectations.
Operational contingency plans Wider political factors including regional tensions andprotectionist pressures may impact on operations ormarkets.
Acquisitions Laird has made and is likely to make further strategic Reliance on a comprehensive, embedded acquisitions of complementary businesses, assets and strategic planning process that validates companies with the intention of accelerating growth target growth markets and technologies and strengthening and developing its market.
If such Adherence to a robust M & A Integration acquisitions cannot be successfully integrated and the process tailored to meet overall business and risks managed, Lairds business, financial condition and the acquisition objectives results of its operations may be adversely affected.
Undertaking due diligence using specialist Laird may also set up operations in new technologies, external partners markets and or geographies which could fail to meet Training and staff retention measures for business case expectations leading to lost investment qualified engineers or other technically orreduced profits.
qualified personnel and proactive relationship management with customers Obtaining warranties and indemnities from vendors where possible Brand management While the One Laird cultural transition programme is Proactive customer communication and key to the delivery of strategic goals, it may also bring relationship management associated risk during the transition process from existing Robust and consistent marketing brands within Laird, or new acquisitions, which may have strong customer recognition.
Planned revenue could be Brand strategy prioritisation within acquisition impacted if brand loyalty is not successfully transferred.
integration plans Laird PLC 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities Operations China operational Laird faces continued pressure on Chinese labour costs, Processes improvements to concentration particularly with reference to base pay and increasing increase productivity social costs.
The result of these pressures may lead to Increased automation reduced profits or other adverse effects on the business.
Developing options for relocation of certain Laird may encounter difficulty in managing operations manufacturing operations processes to due to unfavourable political or economic factors or Western China and other areas unexpected legal or regulatory changes.
If the effects of Maintaining professional relationships this instability disrupt Lairds operations in this region, with authorities Lairds operating results may be adversely affected.
Supply chain and Lairds ability to deliver according to market demands Supplier quality control, vetting and review rawmaterials largely depends on obtaining timely and adequate supplies Developing multi-supplier options of components and raw materials.
where possible Failure in the supply chain could interrupt Lairds product Supply chain business contingency plans supply, limit sales and increase costs.
Processes for raw material stock management The raw materials used include commodities such as Relationship management with key suppliers copper, beryllium copper, steel, aluminium, silver and zinc all of which may be subject to price volatility.
This may impact Lairds operating profits.
Product risks Lairds reputation and brand value may be adversely Product and operations quality affected due to real or alleged failures in its products control processes andsolutions.
Contractual controls to limit liability where possible Proactive customer relationship management Operational One or more of Lairds main factories or sites may Risk management and recovery plans in continuity suffer major disruption such as pandemic, fire, flooding, place at site, business unit and corporate regulatory action, loss of IT systems following a cyber functional levels incident or similar which may have an adverse effect Use of expert partners to continuously on Lairds activities.
Any of the above may prevent improve site risk management controls Laird fromfully performing its contractual obligations, ITsecurity and back-up procedures potentially resulting in reputational damage and lost revenue and profits.
Flexing production between sites Executive Failure to recruit or retain critical talent in the Executive Use of high calibre recruitment partners leadership leadership could threaten the delivery of strategy or Talent management and succession planning recruitment and erode the confidence of key customers and stakeholders, retention negatively impacting revenue, profits and market Appropriate Executive reward and valuations.
incentivisation programmes Finance Currency exposures Laird is subject to various financial and fiscal risks by virtue Matching local currency income with local of its global operations and customer base.
currency costs Use of financial instruments to assist in the management of foreign exchange and interest rate risk, principally forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps Corporate responsibility Regulatory In common with all global businesses we face complex Robust Corporate Governance framework compliance and differing regulatory rules in all areas of our operations and leadership and markets, including ethical, environmental, health and Implementation of regulatory and trade safety, trade compliance, employment and tax regulations.
compliance policies and procedures A serious breach by Laird could have an adverse effect upon Lairds business and the results of its operations may Compliance training to provide oversight and be adversely affected.
assurance on compliance risks Professional compliance expertise within corporate functions compliance to oversee key compliance risks Compliance monitoring and testing programmes Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
