Lonmin Plc 204 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Shareholder Information The Sixteen-Eight Memorial Trust The Memorial Trust was founded in 2012 by Lonmin and its partner Shanduka Resources to fund the education needs of the dependent children of the Lonmin employees who died during the violence of 10-16 August 2012.
The Trust Fund has 153 beneficiaries of which 114 children are in primary and secondary schools, 10 are in tertiary institutions, 12 are older and have completed their schooling and 19 are babies or toddlers.
The Trust, which was registered by the Master of the High Court in South Africa on 11 January 2013, was capitalised at R5 million through seed capital from Lonmin and Shanduka.
It has since grown to over R6 million thanks to the R1 million contribution from Glencore PLC formerly Xstrata plc.
The Trust Fund approved applications of R2.1 million for the education of its beneficiaries in 2014 2013 R0.6 million.
Beneficiary Analysis per Gender and Age Number of beneficiaries Female Male Age 1-10 Age 11-20 Age 21 153 74 79 69 59 25 The Trust Fund provides for the payment of education costs relating to: Education assistance which is defined as the cost of attending a government public school or other education facility.
Assistance includes registration costs, school fees, cost of books, uniform, transport allowance and other direct education costs which the trustees may consider relevant Extramural activities such as sport and excursions Boarding fees The bank account to which donations can be made is: Branch Name: The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited Sandton Branch, Johannesburg, South Africa Branch Code: 01-9205 Trust Current Account: 42 099 362 2 A C name: Sixteen-Eight Memorial Swift code: SBZAZAJJ Disclaimer The Strategic Report has been prepared to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair review of the business of the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
It may not be relied upon by anyone, including the Companys shareholders, for any other purpose.
The Strategic Report is designed to provide shareholders with an understanding of the Companys business and the environment in which it operates, and, of necessity, only focuses on material issues and facts.
The omission of reporting on any specific topic should not be taken as implying that it is not being addressed.
It should be read in conjunction with the section titled A Deeper Look and the Directors Report which contain other more information which cannot be included in the Strategic Report, on the grounds of materiality.
The Strategic Report and other sections of the Annual Report and Accounts contain forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
No assurance can be given that the forward-looking statements will be realised.
Statements about the Directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Companys control.
The information contained in the Annual Report and Accounts has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors at the date of its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise the Annual Report and Accounts during the financial year ahead other than as required by law or regulation.
It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends to differ materially.
The forward-looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors for the Company, including those identified in the Strategic Report.
The Companys shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Shareholders should note that certain parts of this Annual Report and Accounts have not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
Credits The paper used in this report is produced using virgin wood fibre from well managed forests in Brazil, Sweden and Germany with FSC certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental management.
The use of the FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Printed by Pureprint Group Limited, a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Pureprint Group Limited is FSC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy.
We aim to reduce at source the effect our operations have on the environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals.
We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Our Mission We are successful Our Values when To grow and build our portfolio Our employees live and work Zero Harm of high quality assets.
We are committed to Zero safely and experience the personal satisfaction that Harm to people and the To deliver the requirements environment.
comes with high performance of the South African broadand recognition.
based socio-economic Mining Integrity, Honesty & Trust Charter and we welcome the Our shareholders are realising We are committed ethical opportunity to transform our a superior total return on their people who do what we say business.
investment and support our we will do.
To build a value-based Transparency culture, which is founded The communities in which we Open, honest communication on safe work, continuous and free sharing of information.
improvement, common Respect For Each Other We are meeting our standards and procedures, commitments to all business Embracing our diversity community involvement and enriched by openness, partners and our suppliers, one that rewards employees contractors, partners and sharing, trust, teamwork for high performance.
High Performance Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families and promote self esteem.
Brian Beamish Ben Magara Chairman Chief Executive Officer May 2014 www.
com Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2014 www.
com Annual Report and Accounts For the year ended 30 September 2014 Lonmin Plc Registered in England, Company Number 103002 Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL 2014 Rebuilding bridges Sharing a vision for sustainability Lonmin Plc
