Lonmin Plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Social, Ethics & Transformation SET Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 This Committee, formerly called the Transformation Committee, was created voluntarily by the Board in January 2011 to help it oversee the significant risks that the Company faces in the crucial area of transformation.
While this term is not commonplace in the UK, in South Africa it refers to the over-arching aims of the entire process of Black Economic Empowerment, and changing how business is done.
In our case, we have committed to certain outcomes through the Social and Labour Plans to which our new order mineral rights are subject and to a series of initiatives outlined at the 2013 AGM.
In addition, whilst the Company is not subject to the South African Companies Act, that legislation requires that certain locally-incorporated entities, including Lonmins principal operating subsidiaries, establish a social & ethics committee, the remit of which is mandated in law, The Board considers that successful management of these issues is of utmost importance to the conduct of the Groups business, contribute to being a good corporate citizen and, ultimately, should help us to retain our informal social licence to operate, and therefore decided to extend the remit of the previous Transformation Committee to include all SET matters.
Further information in relation to these matters is available in the Sustainable Development Report, which can be downloaded in pdf form from the Companys website, www.
Role of the Social, Ethics & Transformation SET Committee The SET Committee has delegated authority from the Board set out in its written terms of reference, available on the Companys website, which were last reviewed by the Board in September 2014.
The primary purpose of the Committee is to oversee the Companys strategy and actions in meeting its commitments and obligations in the areas of transformation and empowerment, and in those social and ethics matters prescribed in South African law, and that the interests of all stakeholders including shareholders are properly recognised when doing so, with its principal duties being: to develop strategies, policies and processes and set goals and targets for transformation and empowerment, and assess the means by which such strategies are proposed to be implemented and goals achieved, with the goal of ensuring that there is a disciplined, co-ordinated and sustainable approach to transformation: to monitor, review and evaluate progress made by management in meeting the Companys obligations in respect of transformation and empowerment, including the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements and external commitments made in relation to the same: To oversee the Groups activities in relation to the prescribed social and ethics matters, and in developing an appropriate corporate culture including ethical matters including anti-bribery and corruption actions and the human rights of those involved in or affected by the Groups business: to ensure effective communication on SET issues between management, the Board and various stakeholders: and to guide and otherwise provide encouragement and counsel to management in relation to SET matters.
Composition of the SET Committee The members of the Committee as at the date of this report are Len Konar Chairman, Jim Sutcliffe, Phuti Mahanyele and Ben Magara.
Until they retired from the Board on 30 January 2014, David Munro and Mahomed Seedat also served as members of the Committee.
Brian Beamish served as a member from 1 November 2013 to 11 September 2014.
During FY2014, in view of the importance of the issues being considered, all Directors were invited to attend meetings.
At the request of the Committee Chairman, the Chief Operating Officer, the EVP of Communications and Public Affairs, the EVP of Strategic Business Transformation and the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, also attend the meetings, none of whom do so as of right.
Other senior managers and Board members attend as needed when specialist input is required.
Activities of the SET Committee during the year The strategic importance of many of the issues captured under the heading of transformation is such that they have been considered at Board level.
The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to focus.
`The Committee met formally twice during the year, and also led a deep dive into transformation strategy and performance which was attended by a wide range of operational managers.
All other Board Directors were given a standing invitation to attend any of these meetings, and many did so.
As well as routine monitoring activities the material items considered by the Committee in FY2014 were: November 2013 having reviewed progress against the Companys commitments and identified remedial actions needed, the Committee also considered a report commissioned from Empowerdex on the extent of Group companies compliance with the Mining Charter Scorecard.
The Committee also reviewed a report critical of Lonmin produced by Bench Marks Foundation, and discussed with management how the Company should respond to this and the need for better communications.
The Committee reviewed draft Social & Labour Plans for the period 2013-2017 and provided feedback to management.
The report on the Committees work in the 2013 annual report was approved.
March 2014 Deep Dive the Committee reviewed progress against the interventions announced at the 2013 AGM, including a detailed presentation on infrastructure investment in the Nkaneng and Wonderkop communities.
They also reviewed progress against the Mining Charter Scorecard requirements, focussing on HDSA equity participation, employment equity and housing and living conditions.
July 2014 the Committee reviewed the rental cost of company-sponsored accommodation, and how this compared to market.
In-depth reviews of the housing and living conditions of our employees, and our community infrastructure investment projects were undertaken.
The status of our performance against our SLP commitments and Mining Charter obligations was reviewed in detail, and the SLP commitments for 2013-2017 were also reviewed, as was the status of possible changes to the governing legislation.
The Committee reviewed proposals for observing the second anniversary of the Events at Marikana.
This meeting was supplemented by site visits undertaken by the Committee members.
