Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 14 People behind the plan Driving transformation Management committee 1.
Ma Mar rc B c Boll olland an 1 2 3 4 Chi Chief e Ex Exe ecut cutiv ive e 2.
Pat P ric rick B k Bou o squet-Cha hav vann anne Ex Ex E e ecut cut u ive e Di Dire rec cto t r, Marketing ng & B & Business fide Developme pment nt 3.
3 Joh John D Dix ixo on n Ex Exe ecut cutiv iv five e Di Dire rec cto or, General Me Merc rch hand a ise 4.
St Ste eve Ro Row we e Ex Exe ecut cutiv ive e Di D re ec cto tor, Food 5.
Al Ala an S n Ste t w war art t 5 6 7 8 Chi Chief ef Fin Financ an e O e Of f cer cer 6.
6 La Lau ura ra Wa Wad fide-G e-Ger ery y Ex xe ecutiv five e Di Dire rec cto tor r, M, Mult ultii-c channel E- -com commer m ce 7.
Andy A y Adco dcock Trading D g ir ire ect cto or, r Fo F od d 8.
Sa ac cha ha Ber Berend endji jii Re ettail ail Di Dire rec cto tor r 9.
Cle Clem C m Co onstanti tin ne e 9 10 11 12 Di Dir rec ecttor or of of Pro P per pe ty y 10 10.. Ta Tanit nith D Dodg dge e Di Dir rec ecttor or of of Human an Re Res sour ources c 11 11.. St Stev eve Fi Finla nlan n Di Dir rec ecttor or of Intern ernati ationa onal O Operations s 12 2.. Do Domi minic Fr Fry y Direc cttor or of of Com om o mun munica icati ti tio o ons and In nve ves sto tor Re R la lattion ion ons s 13.
Ja an H n Heer ee eer eere e 13 14 15 16 Director or or of of of o Int ntern ernati ationa o l 14 14 14.. Di D rk Lembr bre egts gts Di D rec cttor or of Supply Ch Chain ain 15 5.. Am Amand anda Mellor Gr Gro oup up Se Sec cret retar a y and Hea ead d of of Corpo ora rate Govern nanc ance e 16.
Darre ell ll St S e ein in Director of IT T The progress that M&S has made this year would not have been possible without the dedication of all our employees.
I would like to thank every employee for their enthusiasm, hard work and passion over the last year.
Having the right team in place is crucial In March this year, we announced that made this year would not have been to delivering our plan, and this year Clem Constantine, Director of Property, possible without the dedication of all our we continued to bene t from the and Darrell Stein, Director of IT, will be employees.
Our customers constantly tell wealth of experience on our leaving the business in the summer.
Both us that they recognise the high levels of Management Committee.
of their roles have signi cantly changed commitment among our people.
I would recently as we will be opening less GM like to thank every employee for their Our leadership team is composed of space which changes our property focus, enthusiasm, hard work and passion over people with extensive and broad careers and our new e-commerce platform has the last ye y ar.
at M&S, as well as those brought in from now been delivered.
Clem has brought his outside with specialist expertise.
The team considerable expertise to growing our store has wide-reaching global experience, network and Darrell has played an integral which is an essential asset as we become role in delivering M&S.
both all the very best for the future.
Together they have helped to build a signi cantly stronger M&S.
The Management Committee is ably Marc Bolland supported by a strong team from across Chief Executive the business.
