Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 30 Our people highlights Our people Average number of employees Engaging our employees 85,813 Employee engagement score 80% Training and development days 1.5 per customer assistant This gure represents the average total number of employees throughout the year and accounts for seasonal uctuations.
Overview Bolstering our capabilities Our people are at the heart of what As technology continues to change the makes M&S different.
As we continue to way that our customers shop, we are transform the business, we have worked building our in-house skills to ensure we hard to ensure that we have the have the capabilities to evolve with the capabilities in place to drive the retail landscape.
We have also actively company forward.
We have continued to looked to recruit people from outside make sure that our 86,000 employees the company with skills to suit the new throughout the business are con dent, environment.
From designers to online engaged and knowledgeable.
As the editors to copywriters, we have retail landscape evolves, we continue to substantially bolstered our digital train our colleagues in the latest digital team.
For example, the recent launch of developments in retail.
com saw us create a 50-strong changing shopping habits, we know that software development team.
Our 2014 customers still want the personal touch.
Graduate Scheme and Business Thats why our store employees are as Placement Programme offered over 200 dedicated as ever to providing opportunities across our stores and exceptional levels of customer service.
of ce locations, and our IT software GM Apprenticeships engineer scheme was one of our biggest To build a pipeline of future An engaged, positive team graduate programmes for the second talent we have taken on It is crucial that all our people year running.
nine GM technologist understand our priorities and objectives, apprentices.
They split and that they are engaged with the We also enhanced our leadership team their week between M&S ongoing transformation of the business.
with a number of senior appointments and Fashion Enter, one of Our annual Your Say survey shows we and around two-thirds of our top 100 our clothing suppliers are achieving this levels of engagement managers have international experience.
among our employees grew by 2% on Transformation last year to 80% and our overall positivity As part of the ongoing transformation of score also rose compared to last year.
M&S over the last year, we looked at how Meanwhile, 95% of our employees said we could become more connected with that they regularly look for ways to better each other and with our customers.
60,000 of our store colleagues An increasing number of store employees have been involved in the Notice Me The most valuable and said that their store managers are programme to continue to improve the making more time to keep them in-store customer experience.
The truly lasting thing Ive informed about the Companys overall majority of our senior leaders have also gained is self-belief.
This ts in with attended development days to support our belief that knowledge bolsters them in leading the way in a multiMake Your Mark has con dence, which in turn leads to channel, international business and increased levels of customer service and responsible leadership.
proved such a lifeline employee motivation.
Youth employment for me and I would Our Your Say survey was conducted Youth unemployment remains one of the online this year for the first time, making strongly recommend it.
biggest social issues that the UK faces.
it easier for our international colleagues That is why this year we have provided Hannah Fallis to participate.
We were pleased that the over 1,450 16-25 year-olds with Trainee Visual Merchandiser, response rate rose by 2% compared to vocational work experience through our M&S Omagh last year following this change.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information % % % 2 6 5... 3 8 7 7 2 3 6 Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 31 Employee diversity as at year end Total employees Total Senior Managers Total Board Female 58,552 Female 72 Female 4 Staying connected Male 21,414 Male 120 Male 10 Our employees have access to Yammer, an internal social network, which allows them to ask and answer 79,966 192 14 questions, join groups BIKE 24 and post comments.
1,300 employees participated in BIKE 24, a We keep our employees 24-hour charity cycle event, informed about which and a further 60 cycled from products have made the Arc to Arch from our headlines through our Champs Elyses store to weekly press summary our Marble Arch store.
They that goes to all our raised 942,000 for five stores.
Our In-Touch programme includes 942,000 weekly video downloads to help employees stay in touch with whats happening across the business.
Our plan for the future We will drive a performance culture by continuing to nurture talent within M&S, as well as recruit skilled people from outside the business.
As digital technology Inspiring Womens continues to change the Network way that people shop, One of our non-executive we will train our directors, Martha Lane Fox, employees with the the co-founder of lastminute.
relevant skills needed com, spoke at the launch to serve customers.
event of our womens We will continue to leadership network, which embed clear, core aims to inform and inspire M&S values across our people.
new Make Your Mark scheme.
The Big Beach Clean-up, which cleared Supporting our communities four-week programme, which we litter from 140 UK beaches and canals.
Helping in the community is a key strand launched last summer in partnership During the day, which was run in of Plan A.
To this end, we offer all our with The Princes Trust, aims to ll the partnership with the Marine Conservation employees one days paid time off so skills gap that prevents so many young Society and the Canal & River Trust, we that they can take part in volunteer people from nding work.
cleared 25 tonnes of litter, equivalent to activities.
Last November, 600 IT 3,969 black bags.
employees from M&S and our suppliers Make Your Mark was inspired by our joined forces to take part in one of the Marks & Start employability scheme, biggest ever volunteer programmes in which has helped 6,000 people take the IT industry, training IT Ambassadors their first steps into the jobs market in schools and helping elderly people since it launched a decade ago.
Our enjoy the social bene ts of getting online.
pioneering approach has also been In April, thousands of employees and mirrored in the launch of a scheme, customers took part in our annual Movement to Work, which M&S is part of along with 14 other companies.
