Marstons Community We are proud that our pubs and breweries are an integral part of their communities.
For many the relationship has been longstanding: our oldest brewery in Burton was founded in 1834, and our brewery in Wolverhampton in 1875.
PUB IS THE HUB This year Marstons contributed 10,000 to the Community Services Fund set up by Pub is The Hub to help pubs in small, often rural communities, adapt and survive changing economic pressures.
The charity helps pubs offer additional services to their communities such as shops, play areas, postal services and libraries.
co. uk At Marstons we recognise that the relationship with our community is an Our attention is focussed on compliance with the new Food Information for essential ingredient for the appreciation of the distinctiveness of our beer Consumers Regulation which comes into effect in December 2014, and brands and an essential foundation for our pubs.
requires all food businesses to provide allergen information to customers.
Our aim is for our breweries to remain the pride of their communities and we In 2014 we invested in a system to provide more information on nutrition, diet are determined that it stays that way.
Marstons has a reputation for investing and allergens.
Our most frequent requests for information are from customers in its smaller regional breweries in Ringwood, Witney and Cockermouth, and who are coeliac or intolerant to gluten and wheat.
For these customers we the Company is renowned for respecting the provenance and history of its increased the number of dishes we offer and launched specially printed local beers.
At Marstons we understand the value of these regional brands menus identifying these dishes.
We acknowledge the contribution of our within their local communities, for whom they were often originally created suppliers who have, this year, excelled in their provision of information that and we are able to adapt our offering to suit local tastes and preferences.
enables us to pass on detailed allergen information to consumers.
Marstons is continually renewing and improving its pub estate.
This includes Alcohol responsibility a number of disposals in the last year.
Whilst the Company would prefer to see Marstons continues to meet its obligations under licensing regulations.
Our disposals continuing to operate as pubs this is not always economically staff are trained to vigorously operate Challenge 21 and 25 in our pubs.
The proceeds from these disposals help to fund the building of new 2014 our staff recorded in excess of 400,000 challenges to customers to prove pubs, designed to meet the requirements of customers today and those of their age.
Our online Corporate Responsibility Report features more information on how: Charitable support our beers are marketed responsibly: We encourage our pubs to actively support local fund raising and other our bottled beers are labelled with unit content and UK Health voluntary activities arranged by our customers and staff.
Our pubs assist Department limit guidelines: by helping with collections, sponsored activities, the use of our rooms we provide in kind support for Drinkaware, an industry backed Trust which and publicity.
aims to influence consumer behaviour to drink responsibly: and we use test purchasing in our pubs to ensure compliance to the law.
As in previous years the Marstons Inns and Taverns Charitable Trust has matched funds raised by our pub staff.
In 2014 the contribution from the Suppliers ethical sourcing Trust totalled 15,000.
Marstons also operates an employee charity, Our purchasing systems aim to achieve single sourcing of supply wherever supported by contributions from the Company, which in 2014 donated possible.
This gives us a better understanding of our supply chain.
All our staff 18,000 to various causes.
involved in purchasing have confirmed their acceptance of our ethical purchasing policy which states our commitment to trade in a transparent, Healthy eating confidential and fair manner, taking particular care to ensure that all products Marstons is meeting its targets set as part of the Department of Healths come from ethical sources.
Progress on our targets is published on the website www.
Understanding the origin of food ingredients is particularly important to our business.
We only use food suppliers who have been accredited by the British This year we have worked on reducing salt in many of our menu items, Retail Consortium or, where we have the opportunity if required, to carry out achieving a 50% reduction in our puddings, 34% in our bread and rolls, and site audits of the suppliers production centres and facilities.
Together with our 10% in our pre-prepared meals.
This year we served our customers over suppliers we seek food stocks and natural raw materials from sustainable 200,000 low calorie meals.
More information on how we are making progress towards our targets under the Responsibility Deal is given in our online Corporate Responsibility Report.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17
