Our People CREATING A POSITIVE IMPACT At Marstons we recognise that we have a responsibility to develop and train our staff, to meet their aspirations and develop their careers.
By doing so we also aim to support the continuing success of the business.
Full details of how we develop our staff are given in our Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
co. uk responsibility DEPUTY GOING PLACES Read Toms story on his career path to Deputy and more on opportunities and training for young people at www.
co. uk Courses completed this year by our At Head Office we also offer a range of professional qualifications including pub staff have included: accounting CIMA, surveying RICS, marketing CIM and personnel CIPD.
We over 30,000 online e-learning courses giving our pub staff key sponsor degree and diploma programmes including Brewing Diplomas, entry knowledge, fire marshal and management training: Master Brewing qualifications, HGV and logistics.
318 Keyholder Development courses by our front of house team which develop supervisors and assistant managers: The Marstons Pub Career Path is our key development tool for pub employees 178 Chef Development courses which provide and support the to gain and enhance the skills required for their jobs.
It provides a job specific development of our kitchen teams into Line Chefs, Second Chefs induction programme, as well as e-learning modules covering licensing, food and Head Chefs: and safety, health and safety, fire awareness and first aid.
Professional development programmes are also run each year accredited by the Chartered Management Institute.
This year 39 of our staff completed CMI qualifications and we run a coaching and mentoring qualification to provide Gender Diversity in-house support for career development.
12,921 Our responsibility for safety Full details of our health and safety systems are given in our online Corporate 6,778 Responsibility Report.
An explanation is given on how we record and monitor incidents across the whole of our pub estate, production and distribution 40 areas.
By understanding the causes of accidents we can work to reduce incident rates in the future.
10 9 An extensive system of auditing is deployed in our pubs, breweries, depots 2 30 6,143 and offices in order to identify emerging safety risks.
The system can escalate 7 outstanding actions and thereby seeks continual improvement.
We have three health and safety managers to assist with the auditing, monitor legal compliance, develop safe working practices and provide training.
Directors Senior Total managers employees Each year the Companys record on health and safety is reported to the Board.
Number of employees as at 4 October 2014 Following improvements in staff training and better staff engagement, the accident rate in our production and distribution areas has fallen by 27%.
Career development Our People Corporate Social Responsibility We offer a wide range of structured career development programmes enabling employees to develop their skills, experiences and further their Safety in our Taverns progress within the business.
We have now operated our Ready to Let scheme for franchisees, tenants and lessees for two years.
Ready to Let ensures that our pubs are legally Marstons actively encourages staff to develop with opportunities to acquire a compliant upon the commencement of a new agreement and that living varied experience across our pubs, distribution centres, breweries and offices.
The scheme covers all of the Staff are given the opportunity to progress throughout the business, as essential safety features of the pub, including the fire risk assessment, evidenced by the career path of many of our senior managers and Directors.
electrical fixed wiring testing and, the inspection of any gas and electricity appliances.
The scheme also ensures that any remedial actions identified are completed: any physical defects are repaired and, any faulty or broken components are repaired or replaced as necessary.
Read more on opportunities and training for For details of the Marstons graduate schemes, see: young people and all employees at: www.
co. uk responsibility 16 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Number of employees
