IMAGE SOURCE: THE MOTLEY FOOL.
AbbVie Inc. (NYSE:ABBV)
Q4 2018 Earnings Conference Call
Jan. 25, 2019, 9:00 a.m. ET
Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
Call Participants
See all our earnings call transcripts.
Prepared Remarks:
Operator
Good morning and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AbbVie fourth quarter 2018 earnings conference call. All participants will be able to listen only until the question and answer portion of this call. You may ask a question by pressing *1 on your phone. And I would now like to introduce Ms. Liz Shea, Vice President of Investor Relations.
Elizabeth Shea -- Vice President of Investor Relations
Good morning and thanks for joining us. Also, on the call with me, today are Rick Gonzalez, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Michael Severino, Vice Chairman, and President. Bill Chase, Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration. And Rob Michael, Senior Vice President, and Chief Financial Officer. Before we get started, I would like to remind you that some statements we make today are or may be considered forward-looking statements for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. AbbVie cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about the factors that may affect AbbVie's operations is included in our 2017 annual report on Form 10K and in our other SEC filings. AbbVie undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of subsequent [inaudible] except as required by law. On today's conference call as in the past, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand AbbVie's ongoing business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings release and regulatory filings from today, which can be found on our website. Following our prepared remarks, we'll take your questions. So, with that, I'll now turn the call over to Rick.
5 Years From Now, You'll Probably Wish You Grabbed These Stocks
Market-beating Motley Fool investor Iain Butler just revealed his best stocks for Canadian investors to buy this month, and I don¡¯t know about you, but I always pay attention when one of the best growth investors in the world gives me a stock tip.
But please note: As of right now, you could miss out simply because you may not be on the list to receive these 10 best stocks to buy now. Click here to discover how you can take advantage of this.
Richard Gonzalez -- Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This morning I'll discuss our fourth quarter in full-year 2018 performance as well as our expectations for 2019. Mike will then provide an update on recent advancements across the R&D pipeline and Bill will discuss the quarter and our 2019 guidance in more detail. Following our remarks, we'll take your questions. We delivered another impressive year with results well above initial expectations. Adjusted earnings per share in the fourth quarter were $1.90 representing growth of more than 28% versus last year and once again achieving our guidance for the quarter.
Total adjusted operational sales growth of 8.3% exceeded our guidance for the quarter. This growth was driven by a number of products, including our hematological oncology portfolio with global operational sales growth of more than 50% and US Humira which grew more than 9% versus last year. Our international Humira sales were down nearly 15% reflecting the impact of direct biosimilar competition in Europe and other international markets. We also saw a continued strong performance from several other products including Mavyret, Creon, and Duodopa.
AbbVie has demonstrated an exceptional track record of consistently delivering top tier financial performance despite any market or competitive challenges. And 2018 was another clear example of that performance. We continue to drive strong commercial and operational execution resulting in full-year 2018 global operational sales growth of more than 15% and adjusted earnings-per-share growth of more than 41%. As we look at the evolution of our business and of our strategy, we're pleased with the progress that we're making. AbbVie strategy has contemplated biosimilar competition since day one of the launch of this company. Our focus has been on building a pipeline that would allow us to absorb the impact of biosimilar competition and maintain a strong and growing business.
Although our work is never done, we have made tremendous progress building what we believe is one of the industry's most attractive pipelines. In hematological oncology, we have built a powerhouse franchise with Imbruvica and Venclexta. Today, this franchise is roughly $4 billion with more than $1 billion of growth expected in 2019 and significant growth anticipated over our long-range plan. In immunology, Humira in the US will continue to generate strong revenue driving roughly $1 billion of growth in 2019. Since we became an independent company, our research and development efforts in immunology have focused on identifying and advancing new assets that could deliver efficacy superior to Humira and other new agents. Given the importance of this growth platform, we understood that in order to maintain and expand our leadership position, the development of highly differentiated assets was absolutely critical.
We are now confident that with Risankizumab and Upadacitinib we have accomplished our objective. Both of our next generation immunology therapies have demonstrated across multiple clinical trials superiority versus Humira and other competitive offerings. This efficacy was shown across the broad spectrum of patients, including bio-na