IMAGE SOURCE: THE MOTLEY FOOL.
Comcast Corporation. (NASDAQ:CMCSA)
Q4 2018 Earnings Conference Call
January 23, 2019, 8:30 a.m. ET
Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
See all our earnings call transcripts.
Prepared Remarks:
Operator
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Comcast's fourth quarter and full year 2018 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Please note that this conference call is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Finance, Mr. Jason Armstrong. Please go ahead, Mr. Armstrong.
 Jason Armstrong -- Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thank you, operator and welcome everyone joining me on this morning's call are Brian Roberts, Mike Cavanaugh, Steve Burke, Dave Watson, and Jeremy Darroch. Brian and Mike will make formal remarks and Steve, Dave, and Jeremy will also be available for Q&A. As always, let me now refer you to slide number two which contains our Safe Harbor disclaimer and remind you that this conference call may include forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
In addition, in this call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our 8-K and trending schedules for the reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP. With that, let me turn the call over to Brian Roberts for his comments. Brian?
Motley Fool¡¯s 5G Stock Pick
For the first time ever, Apple will release an iPhone that is 5G ready and 5G will supercharge this new iPhone.
That¡¯s why Apple analysts are convinced that an unprecedented number of Apple fans will sprint to upgrade to this new iPhone.
But before you run out and buy shares of Apple, there¡¯s something you need to know, because there might be an even more lucrative way to play the coming iPhone boom.
Legendary Canadian stock analyst Iain Butler and his team at Stock Advisor Canada have identified a tiny American company (52 times smaller than Apple¡¯s) that seems perfectly positioned for the coming iPhone supercycle.
That¡¯s why so many investors are buzzing with excitement about the new report from Iain Butler¡¯s team at Stock Advisor Canada. The name of this report is ¡°iPhone Super-Cycle: An Investor¡¯s Guide to the Coming Apple Tsunami.¡±
This new report reveals the reasons why we think every forward-thinking investor should be paying close attention to this revolutionary new industry.
Simply click here to learn more today.
Brian Roberts -- Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Jason and good morning, everyone. 2018 was a successful and pivotal year for Comcast by an outstanding fourth-quarter will recruit pro forma EBITDA by 11%. For the full year, we generated record free cash flow. We are now truly a global company with our acquisition of Sky, and as you'll hear, we had many other significant achievements throughout each of our businesses. This success is based on a few guiding principles. Be leaders in the markets in which we compete, continuously improve everything so we could deliver the best products and experiences and keep building deep, highly valuable recurring relationships with our customers. This is what allows us to have tremendous consistency and to think and compete for the long term.
Throughout this very busy year, one of the things that stands out for me is that the team did not miss a beat enabling us to deliver exceptional operational and financial results for the fourth quarter in 2018. So, let's turn to a few of the highlights as well as some of the growth opportunities we see in the coming years. In cable, we made a very successful transition to a connectivity centric model, and that drove our fantastic performance in 2018. The strategy is clear, deliver the best products and experiences, while improving our focus on keeping our customer at the center of everything we do. In the fourth quarter, customer relationships increased by 258,000 and EBITDA growth of 7.3% was the best for a fourth-quarter in eight years.
For the full year, we added 1 million net new customer relationships driven by our 13th consecutive year of over 1 million broadband net adds. Our connectivity businesses, residential broadband, and business services in total grew revenue nearly 10% in 2018. We made progress in transforming the customer experience and taking unnecessary complexity and activity out of the business. Greater than 75% of transactions are now being completed through digital touch points. In the past 12 months alone, we have reduced agent handled calls by 15 million and truck rolls by 1.5 million all while adding a million new customer relationships. Altogether, this resulted in cable EBITDA growth of 6 