IMAGE SOURCE: THE MOTLEY FOOL.
McDonald's (NYSE:MCD)
Q4 2017 Earnings Conference Call
Jan. 30, 2018 11:00 a.m. ET
Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
Call Participants
Prepared Remarks:
Operator
Hello, and welcome to McDonald's January 30, 2018, Investor Conference Call. At the request of McDonald's Corporation, this conference is being recorded. Following today's presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session for investors. At that time, investors only may ask a question by pressing *1 on their touchtone phone.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Mike Flores, investor relations officer for McDonald's Corporation. Mr, Flores, you may begin.
Mike Flores -- Investor Relations Officer
Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on the call today are our president and chief executive officer, Steve Easterbrook, and chief financial officer, Kevin Ozan. Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay by webcast. Now, before I turn it over to Steve, I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments today.
Both documents are available on investor.mcdonalds.com, as are any reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with their corresponding GAAP measures. And now I'd like to turn it over to Steve.
5 Years From Now, You'll Probably Wish You Grabbed These Stocks
Market-beating Motley Fool investor Iain Butler just revealed his best stocks for Canadian investors to buy this month, and I don¡¯t know about you, but I always pay attention when one of the best growth investors in the world gives me a stock tip.
But please note: As of right now, you could miss out simply because you may not be on the list to receive these 10 best stocks to buy now. Click here to discover how you can take advantage of this.
Steve Easterbrook -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. 2017 was a very strong year of performance for McDonald's. Our results demonstrate we successfully completed the transition from turnaround to growth.
Our momentum is broad-based across the McDonald's system, with strong leadership teams in place, a business that's fit for purpose, and growth platforms underpinning our strategy that resonates with customers and markets around the world. Our top priority in 2017 was serving more customers more often, and we did. We grew guest counts by 1.5% in the fourth quarter and 1.9% for the full year, with all business segments positive. This was our first full year of positive comparable guest count growth since 2012.
Comparable sales recorded grew 5.5%, marking our 10th consecutive quarter of growth. Full-year comparable sales increased by 0.3%, our best performance in six years. We made significant advancements with our franchising strategy in 2017, culminating with our largest developmental licensee transaction, China, and we reached our target of refranchising 4,000 restaurants a year ahead of schedule. Customers tell us that we are now simply enhancing their McDonald's experience by being more attentive to their needs and serving hotter and fresher food.
Overall customer satisfaction survey scores continued to improve in 2017, with most markets achieving gains across multiple elements of brand perception, particularly friendly service and taste and quality of food. As a result, six of our top eight markets grew market share, with the U.K., Canada, and Japan leading the way. We are pleased with our progress but certainly not satisfied. There is more potential in the marketplace and in our plan, and we are leveraging our considerable size and scale to unlock it.
We are sharper and more focused in the way we organize, think, and act, and we are confident in our ability to execute with excellence to drive sustainable, long-term growth. Kevin will walk you through more details about our financial performance in the fourth quarter and the full year.
Kevin Ozan -- Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Steve. By all measures, our strong performance in 2017 shows that we have momentum, enabling us to drive our business, innovate, and invest in our growth so we can compete effectively in today's global marketplace. Our comp sales performance is a significant achievement in a soft global IEO market and on top of strong prior-year results. Comp sales and guest counts were positive across all of our operating segments, with overall results driven by strong performances in the U.S., the U.K., Japan, Canada, and China.
U.S. comp sales increased 4.5% for the quarter compared with the rest of the QSR sandwich competitor set, which was relatively flat. Comp sales for the international lead segment rose 6%, with positive results throughout the segment. High-growth comp sales increased 4%, led by China's strong performance along with positive results across the segment's European markets, partly offset by some near-term challenges in South Korea.
In foundational markets, comps were up 8%. In addition to Japan's strong performance, comps were positive in each of the segment's geographic regions. I also want to mention that starting with fourth-quarter 2017, comparable sales in our foundational segment and on a consolidated basis have been adjusted to exclude the impact of Venezuela due to its hyper-inflationary status and the significant impact it had on the fourth quarter. We recasted comp sales for the first three quarters of 2017 to exclude Venezuela and reflected those in the earnings release to provide comparable amounts.
As we move into 2018, we will continue to direct our efforts and resources toward driving the convenience and menu innovation that will help maintain this top-line momentum. On a reported basis, earnings per share for the quarter declined 40%, to $0.87. These results include a one-time net tax cost of approximately $700 million for the impact of U.S. tax reform.
The $700 million net costs consist of $1.2 billion of costs for the deemed repatriation of our undistributed foreign earnings, partially offset by a benefit of $500 million for the revaluation of our deferred-tax assets and liabilities to the lower U.S. tax rates. Excluding the impact of tax reform, diluted earnings per share increased 19%, to $1.71, reflecting strong comp sales, G&A savings, a reversal of a tax valuation allowance in Japan, and a 27% tax rate. This tax rate was lower than expected because of tax law changes in some countries outside the U.S. in the fourth quarter. We ended 2017 with franchised restaurants representing 92% of our total restaurant base, up from 81% three years ago. As a result, franchise margins now comprise more than 80% of our total restaurant margin dollars. For the fourth quarter, franchise margin dollars increased across all segments, reflecting sales-driven performance and the shift to a more heavily franchised system.
The franchise margin percent in the U.S. remained flat due to higher depreciation costs related to our roll-out of Experience of the Future. Our company-operated restaurant base now consists of a little over 3,000 locations spread across the U.S., international lead, and high-growth segments. The U.S. and international lead markets account for about 75% of the company-operated margin dollars. For fourth quarter, consolidated company-operated margins improved 40 basis points, primarily due to our refranchising efforts. Company-operated margins in the U.S. declined 150 basis points due to higher labor costs, which reflected both wage pressures and our continued investments in deployment of our key initiatives, along with higher commodity costs.
Commodity costs in the U.S. for the fourth quarter were up a little over 1.5% versus last year, while our full-year U.S. grocery basket increased 60 basis points. In terms of menu pricing, our fourth quarter pricing was up 3% year over year, which was above food-away-from-home inflation of 2.5%.
The menu price increases we took in the fourth quarter were part of a broader strategic pricing reset of the menu board, ahead of the launch of our $1, $2, $3 menu in early January. By the end of the first quarter this year, we expect our pricing to be back below food-away-from-home inflation. For the international lead markets, commodity costs were up about 3% for the fourth quarter and 2% for the year, with menu prices up about 2% year over year. G&A for the year was down 7% in constant currencies, in line with the guidance we provided at the start of the year.
I'll put these savings into perspective relative to our G&A savings target in a few minutes when I review our updated outlook for 2018. Finally, other operating income increased nearly $60 million for the quarter, primarily due to the one-time reversal of the valuation allowance in Japan that I mentioned earlier.
Steve Easterbrook -- President and Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Kevin. As our results demonstrate, McDonald's is much more agile and able to move at the pace needed to address the needs of today's customers. With the introduction of our Velocity Growth Plan last March, we aligned and mobilized the McDonald's system. We began acting on it straight away, and by the end of the year, we made substantial progress in the eyes of our customers.
We are serving more customers as we retain those most loyal to our brand, regain visits from those who have been coming less often, and convert our casual to committed customers. We've grown sales across the full breadth of our menu with great-tasting value offerings, delicious core selections, such as our Big Mac, and exciting premium sandwiches with a wide range of flavor profiles. With relevant menu choices for our most price-sensitive customers, we have strengthened consumer perceptions of McDonald's as a place to find a tasty and affordable meal. Across the system, our markets have increased the range and appeal of our food and meal bundles offered every day at compelling price points.
Petit Plaisir in France offers premium quality at a very affordable portion size. The Saver Menu in the U.K. and Value Picks in Canada provide a range of affordable food for snacking and add-ons. In the U.S., McPick 2 for $5 combined with $1 any size fountain beverages provides customers the opportunity to bundle and share, which drove incremental visits and average check in the quarter.
Programs like McPick 2 for $5 and Germany's Taste of McDonald's, featuring rotating core selections for EUR 1.99, not only appeal to the price-conscious consumer and drive incremental traffic, they reintroduce customers to the great-tasting quality of the food at a core of our menu. Across the McDonald's system, we've increased support and excitement via iconic food customers identify with our brands: the Egg McMuffin, the Quarter Pounder with Cheese, Chicken McNuggets, french fries, and, of course, our world-famous Big Mac, which is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year. We have reaffirmed that customers still crave this food and the core of our menu still drives growth. Maintaining greater strength in our core menu platform has allowed us to venture further into exciting and compelling new offerings, such as All Day Breakfast, which is satisfying customers and driving growth for McDonald's in the U.S., Australia, and Canada.
We also recently launched Buttermilk Crispy Tenders in the U.S., which contributed in a meaningful way to our sales performance for the quarter. Markets that have already modernized their restaurants now have the capacity and credibility to offer more premium beef and chicken sandwiches, such the Signature Collection in the U.K. and Seriously Chicken in Canada, which are driving brand perception scores higher and profitable top-line growth. To make it even easier for our customers to access our great-tasting food, we're providing them with greater flexibility and choice in how they order, pay, and are served their food.
In 2017, we went from piloting delivery with UberEATS in 200 restaurants in Miami, Tampa, and Orlando to offering our customers the convenience of great McDonald's food delivered from 7,000 more restaurants in 21 different countries around the world. With our markets in Asia and the Middle East, where we've offered delivery for many years, we are now delivering meals from over 10,000 restaurants, more than one-quarter of the system's restaurants. Delivery orders tend to surpass average check size by 1.5 to 2 times, and with high customer satisfaction, we are seeing solid repeat business from those who try it. During the fourth quarter, delivery gained traction and emerged as a meaningful contributor to our comparable sales in several of our largest markets.
In many of our markets, we've scaled the Experience of the Future platform, providing our customers a more seamless, personalized, and enjoyable experience, with additional menu boards, self-order kiosks, greater hospitality, and a modernized look. They're telling us they like the new McDonald's better. They're awarding us with more frequent visits and they're spending more on average when they do. We have deployed Experience of the Future, or EOTF, in about one-third of the restaurants in the McDonald's system, including nearly 3,000 restaurants in the U.S.
Customers increasingly expect to engage with brands via apps on their mobile phones. And in the U.S. alone, we now have over 20 million registered users of the McDonald's mobile app. We are well-positioned to capitalize on that user base, ending 2017 with 20,000 restaurants around the world offering mobile order and pay.
I'm proud of our team's work. We achieved that milestone from a standing start in just over 10 months. While still very early with customer usage, we're encouraged by digital orders as we're seeing higher average check size and greater customer satisfaction among customers. In particular, many customers are appreciating the added convenience of curbside pickup.
Now as we're starting 2018, our focus is on executing our Velocity Growth Plan. We will continue to provide customers an improved experience and greater choice in how they order, pay, and are served their food. We have opportunities in 2018 to raise consumer awareness of the enhanced convenience available with delivery and mobile order and pay. In the coming months, we'll initiate marketing campaigns that encourage more customers to enjoy these expanded options to engage with McDonald's.
And as we do, we're optimistic this will contribute to the momentum of our business. With nearly 37,000 restaurants in 120 countries, McDonald's has a distinct scale advantage and significant potential. Over the course of 2017, Kevin and I visited markets throughout the United States and around the world. We could see firsthand how our local chains are leveraging the benefits of being part of the larger McDonald's system and delivering on that in ways that matter most to the customers and their communities.
The contemporary decor and well-trained crew members we saw in markets such as the U.K., Canada, and Poland demonstrate how successful we've been in enhancing the overall customer experience in our modernized restaurants. When customers have a better experience, perceptions of our brand improve, sales increase, and guest counts grow. In Italy, we saw the results of our strong focus on operational excellence. Customers appreciate the quick, friendly service and great-tasting food they receive, which has dramatically changed the trajectory of our business in that market.
With this accelerated growth, Italy enjoyed its best year of sales since 2006. France has been a system leader in the development and evolution of self-order kiosks as a customer convenience and solution for bottlenecks during high-volume periods. During our visit last fall, we saw how our French team has led in hospitality and table service across the market to further elevate the customer experience and open up capacity. Service innovations like these, on top of their menu and value platforms, have helped the market achieve an all-time high in market share.
Restaurant employees in S