IMAGE SOURCE: THE MOTLEY FOOL.
Philip Morris International Inc. (NYSE:PM)
Q4 2017 Earnings Conference Call
Feb. 8, 2018, 9:00 a.m. ET
Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
Call Participants
Prepared Remarks:
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Philip Morris International 2017 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results Conference Call. Today's call is scheduled to last about one hour, including remarks by Philip Morris International management, and the question-and-answer session. In order to ask a question, please press the * key followed by 1 on your touchtone phone at any time. Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Nick Rolli, Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications. Please go ahead, sir.
Nicholas Rolli -- Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications
Welcome, and thank you for joining us. Earlier today, we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2017 fourth quarter and full results. You may access the release on www.pmi.com, or the PMI Investor Relations app.
During our call today, please note the following unless otherwise stated. First, we'll be talking about results for the fourth quarter and full year 2017 and comparing them to the same period in 2016. Second, references to total industry, total market, PMI volume and PMI market share performance reflects cigarettes and heated tobacco units.
Under-the-Radar Stock Could Soar with Release of Apple¡¯s 5G iPhone
For the first time ever, Apple will release an iPhone that is 5G ready and 5G will supercharge this new iPhone.
That¡¯s why Apple analysts are convinced that an unprecedented number of Apple fans will sprint to upgrade to this new iPhone.
But before you run out and buy shares of Apple, there¡¯s something you need to know, because there might be an even more lucrative way to play the coming iPhone boom.
Legendary Canadian stock analyst Iain Butler and his team at Stock Advisor Canada have identified a tiny American company (52 times smaller than Apple¡¯s) that seems perfectly positioned for the coming iPhone supercycle.
That¡¯s why so many investors are buzzing with excitement about the new report from Iain Butler¡¯s team at Stock Advisor Canada. The name of this report is ¡°iPhone Super-Cycle: An Investor¡¯s Guide to the Coming Apple Tsunami.¡±
This new report reveals the reasons why we think every forward-thinking investor should be paying close attention to this revolutionary new industry.
Simply click here to learn more today.
A glossary of terms, adjustments, and other calculations, as well as reconciliations to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures, are at the end of today's webcast slides, which are posted on our website. Reduced-Risk Products or RRPs is the term we use to refer to products that present, are likely to present, or have the potential to present less risk of harm to smokers who switch to these products versus continued smoking.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results, and I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today's presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
Now, it's my pleasure to introduce Andr¨¦ Calantzopoulos, our Chief Executive Officer. Martin King, our Chief Financial Officer, will join Andr¨¦ for the question and answer period. Andre?
Andr¨¦ Calantzopoulos -- Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen. Before I get into a discussion of our 2017 results, let me share my thoughts on last month's Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee or TPSAC meeting in the US, which I recognize is top of mind for investors. For reference, we have posted our full presentation to the committee on www.pmiscience.com. The meeting was part of the US Food and Drug Administration's, FDA's, review of PMI's request to commercialize IQOS as a modified-risk tobacco product or MRTP. To advise the FDA on PMI's applications, the committee covered a wide range of scientific, technical, and consumer communications topics. It raised questions and probed the likelihood and magnitude of potential benefits as well as how best to address possible unintended use. We believe the committee's interactions with presenters and its discussion reflect the respect for the integrity of our scientific data and our commitment to bring IQOS to the US.
Although the committee did not agree with some of the specific language related to consumer communication, it confirmed that the evidence supported the statement that switching completely to IQOS significantly reduces exposure to harmful chemicals. The meeting with TPSAC was just one step in a broader, ongoing review of our MRTP applications by the FDA. And the recommendations and vote of the committee, while important, are advisory. In order to make a final decision, the FDA was now considered the topic to discuss at the meeting, including public comments, along with the totality of the evidence we submitted, and additional information we had already planned to submit.
In the immediate future, we look forward to working with the FDA to clarify any outstanding point by recognizing that some questions can only be realistically answered in a post-market scenario. In this regard, in 2018 we will complete an exposal response study designed to measure clinical risk markers in adult smokers who switch to IQOS over a 12 month period. The results of the first six-month term were received at the end of 2017, and the related report is under preparation. We expect to submit the report to the FDA in May.
Separately, PMI has submitted a premarket tobacco application or PMTA to the FDA, which, if granted, will permit the commercialization of IQOS in the US without modified risk messages. This application was not before the committee as it follows a regulatory pathway.
Finally, I'm deeply grateful to my colleagues for their exceptional work on our applications to the FDA and for the presentations last month. Our science and the commitment of our people give me confidence in achieving a vision of a smoke-free future. I would also like to thank the FDA for the time that it invested to review our application as well as the many members of the public who took their time to provide thoughtful comments.
Turning to 2017, it was a landmark year for PMI reflecting better than anticipated performance of our flagship smoke-free product, IQOS, which draw the positive annual profit contribution from our RRP portfolio for the first time, encouraging early feedback from a range of government agencies and advisory committees regarding the scientific substantiation of IQOS, including a growing recognition of a risk continuum for tobacco and other nicotine containing product, the accumulation of valuable learnings that are driving organizational changes to support and accelerate our smoke-free ambition, and our highest annual net revenue growth, excluding currency and acquisitions, since become a public company in 2008.
Full year net revenues increased by 9.4% percent excluding currency driven by higher heated tobacco unit volume and IQOS device sales across all IQOS-launch markets. This reflects a favorable volume mix variance of $1.1 billion, our best ever performance on this measure. RRP net revenues reached $3.6 billion or 12.5% of total net revenues, of which IQOS devices and accessories accounted for approximately $0.9 billion.
Net revenue growth also reflected favorable pricing for our combustible tobacco portfolio, partly offset by the growth in RRP allowances, which resulted in a total pricing variance equivalent to 5.2% of prior year net revenues despite essentially no net pricing in Russia.
Adjusted OCI increased by 7.4% excluding currency driven by higher net revenues partly offset by the adverse impact of higher sales of IQOS devices and increased investment to support the commercialization of IQOS. Consequently, our adjusted OCI margin decreased by 0.8% points to 41% excluding currency.
As outlined in today's press release, our reported diluted earnings per share were impacted by tax items primarily related to the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Excluding these tax items and an unfavorable currency impact of $0.21, our adjusted diluted EPS increased by 10%. The negative currency impact was $0.04 more than we had assumed in our previous forecast in October, not doubly due to the euro and the Japanese yen.
Operating cash flow reached $8.9 billion, an increase of 10.3% or 5.5% excluding currency. Capital expenditures increased by $376 million to reach $1.5 billion reflecting higher investment behind heated tobacco unit production. These strong, currency-neutral financial results were achieved despite 2.7% decline in our combined cigarette and heating tobacco units shipment volume. The volume decline was principally due to lower cigarette industry volume notably in Indonesia, the Philippines, Russia, and Saudi Arabia partly offset by strong growth in heated tobacco unit volume, particularly in Japan.
The sequential improvement in our quarterly volume performance continued in the fourth quarter with heated tobacco unit growth driving a total shipment volume increase of 3.8% or 1.4% excluding inventory movement.
For the year, heated tobacco unit shipment volume nearly quintupled to reach $36.2 billion. The sequential growth in our total international market share, excluding China and the US, also continued in the fourth quarter. Since the first quarter, our quarterly share for heated tobacco units and cigarettes increased by 0.7% and 1.1% points respectively.
For the full year, our total international share was essentially stable. Lower share from our below premium cigarette brands, notably in Indonesia and Russia, was almost entirely offset by the growth of our premium products led by HeatSticks and HEETS. Within the below premium segment, we continue to strengthen our portfolio through brand consolidation in 2017 with the morphing of local brands into international brands such as Chesterfield and Philip Morris, which gained 0.3 and 0.5 share points respective.
Marlboro cigarette share was up slightly, a notable achievement given the disproportionate impact of out-switching to our heated tobacco products in IQOS. The brand's cigarette share increased in the Asia Indie regions, reflecting robust growth in the Philippines and across markets in North Africa, such as Algeria and Egypt.
I will now discuss a few of our key geographies beginning with the European Union region. Total industry volume for cigarettes and heated tobacco units declined by 1.9% in 2017, slightly better than our forecast decline range of 2% to 3%. Relatively modest decrease in industry volume largely reflected the improving economic environment across most markets. Our total regional market share in 2017 was stable, reflecting a gain from HEETS, which reached a share of 0.3% for the year and 0.6% in the fourth quarter, offset by the decline of our cigarette brand portfolio.
Amongst the largest EU markets by industry volume, we gained total share, notably in France and Poland, driven by a higher share of Marlboro and Chesterfield respectively. Share declined in Spain mainly due to Marlboro's passing of around 