Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 05 Chief Executives Operating Review Record profits Results Plc bought for 26.4 millionnow Meggitt power management units, which link the In 2003, Meggitt PLC achieved record profits Western Design and Meggitt Airdynamics engine monitoring unit and the avionics before exceptional items and goodwill respectivelyhave delivered complementary systems, were delivered to Airbus.
We amortisation of 75.5 million on sales of technology and new market opportunities delivered the first production standard 402.4 million, leading to a final dividend of to our Defence Systems and Aerospace generic engine monitoring system for the 5.1 pence.
This resultthe highest in our Equipment businesses.
We completed the historyreinforces the Groups reputation development of a radiation pyrometer for as a stable, cash-generative entity that Investing for organic growth integration in Eurofighter engines continues to perform, even in difficult We launched further initiatives at the yearthe first time that optical temperature market conditions.
end with major capital investments for measurement technology has fed directly established Meggitt businesses.
New local into an engines active control system.
Strategic fundamentals facilities for our UK-based polymers and Initial studies for an advanced hot section This performance was based on strong composites and US-based sensors diagnostics systemalso designed to financial disciplines and a range of strategic businesses are planned for completion by reduce maintenance costhave been fundamentals: delivering proprietary mid-2005.
A US$12.0 million investment in a completed under contract to the US Navy products for profitable applications in the new manufacturing facility in Xiamen, China for shipborne gas turbines.
This specialised areas of the aerospace, defence will provide the Meggitt Group with access programme will enable us to integrate and electronics markets: maintaining to low cost, highly skilled labour, a strategic temperature measurement equipment, oil market balance across military and civil sourcing location and enable us to provide debris monitoring, optical flame interests, original equipment and spares local support for key customers operating characterisation and optical pyrometer and repairs: transferring core technology in Asia.
We aim to build the facility, recruit technology with complex data analysis.
to non-traditional markets: investing and train staff in 2004 and start production substantially in people, product in 2005.
Capital and revenue costs will be Sales of solid state instruments were development and facilities to secure organic incurred during 2004 and 2005 and profits boosted by the delivery of Secondary Flight growth: and acquiring businesses that are expected from mid-2005.
Display Systems to the US Air Force for the expand product niches and provide coherent upgrade of the C-5A B military transport multi-product offerings that simplify aircraft.
Production deliveries on the new procurement.
Aerospace Systems three-inch solid state display have Divisional turnover increased by 23% 24% commenced and it has also been selected Investing through acquisitions at constant exchange rates due, largely, for several aircraft including the V-22, MHIn 2003, we spent a total of 20.0 million on to 2002s purchase of air data and data 47G and MH-60G helicopters and various research and development 5% of turnover : acquisition units from BAE SYSTEMS and export variants of the F-16.
incurred capital expenditure of 10.3 the Lodge aerospace sensors, transducers million: and acquired businesses at a cost and igniter business.
Both have performed Our leading position in general aviation of 60.5 million.
Our philosophy is to buy in line with expectations.
autopilots continues with key OEMs such as companies in areas complementary to our Cirrus and Lancair, and was enhanced by existing markets and products.
We achieved several technology and winning the Eclipse small jet programme in product development milestones in engine January 2004 with our new advanced digital The acquisition of the CFM56-2 3 turbine condition monitoring.
At Eclipses projected volumes, clearance control TCC valve production designed to monitor multiple engine this programme is worth over US$30.0 line from General Electric for 17.2 million parameters and minimise engine million in the next 10 years.
extends the range of extreme environment maintenance.
During the year, the first valves we have promoted for over a decade.
prototype engine monitoring units and Supplementary Type Certificates from the sensor packages were delivered to Federal Aviation Administration were The defence-oriented acquisitions of Rolls-Royce for the Airbus A380 Trent awarded for the Conquest II, Commander Caswell International, acquired for 16.9 900 engine for system integration.
690, Commander Jet Prop and the King Air million, and two companies from Charter The prototype engine interface and aircraft for the MAGIC display and digital 06 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives Operating Review continued autopilot systems, positioning them to Our fire detection business increased highly compact fuel vaporiser for automobile achieve further market penetration in 2004. turnover and completed significant fuel cells with a major automobile engineering development tasks.
This manufacturer and a revolutionary printed The year concluded with Board sanction included a system for the new Airbus A380, circuit reactor was used in a pilot scale for a move to new premises for our comprising new software that provides plant constructed with a major European US-based sensors facility in Manchester, more information on all conditions to the petrochemicals manufacturer.
Qualifications begin in 2004 with the first flight scheduled for early 2005.
Integration of our silicon Defence Systems Aerospace Equipment dioxide cable with Kamans complementary Significant orders for existing products, Meggitt Aerospace Equipments turnover product line in 2002 has resulted in major new product developments and two major reduced by 11%, due to the impact of programmes for the F-22, THAAD Missile acquisitions saw turnover increase by 34% currency translation 3% reduction at and Raytheons ALE50 decoy.
We received a 47% at constant exchange rates in 2003. constant exchange rates and volume supplementary type certificate for the reductions in the civil aerospace market.
cables that will replace the organic wire Caswell International is the market leader This decrease was partially offset by being used to power the Boeing 737NGs for ground targetry used in live fire training increases in military aftermarket sales.
by defence and law enforcement The division boosted its capability with organisations.
Its markets are growing with two acquisitions.
In a further extension of the markets the increased terrorist threat post 9 11. this business serves, we qualified an Synergies are already being derived from In 2003, we bought the CFM56-2 3 turbine electromechanical actuator for the Boeing the integration of Meggitts scoring systems clearance control TCC valve production line 777 that secures the doors during flight.
with Caswells ground targets, while the from General Electric, making us the leading Nine units per aircraft are required for the acquisition positions us as a single source technology supplier of extreme environment large existing fleet that could be retrofitted of land, air and sea based targetry.
valves centred on improving engine efficiency with this technology.
Production deliveries in civil and military aviation and groundbegan in January 2004.
Our bleed air leak Western Design Howden Inc, acquired in based turbines.
The division also acquired detector BALD was developed to upgrade December, is a leader in the design, Howden Airdynamics, specialists in custom the Air Force C-5s aging system.
This development and manufacture of built pump, fan and compressor products for alerts crew members to hot air leaking ammunition handling and environmental aerospace, defence and naval applications.
It within the aircraft wing and pinpoints the control equipment for fighting vehicles and continued to win new business in 2003, location for maintenance crews.
Deliveries serves customers of our air based combat including a brushless motor controls system started in 2004. systems.
Integration will enable the division for the Boeing C-17 aircraft and a contract to deliver a wider range of systems for the design, manufacture and qualification Our polymers and composites business products to these customers.
Western of a fan system for avionics cooling on the continued to evolve into an engineering led Design was recently awarded further V-22 Osprey aircraft.
solution provider, winning new contracts for funds to develop the ammunition handling the Airbus A380 aircraft and many system for the Mounted Combat Vehicle, a Despite the reduction in divisional sales, applications in the US military market.
component of the US armed forces Future our controls business continued to win Combat System.
Over 900 vehicles could new programmes on the F-22, the E2C, The divisions printed circuit heat exchange be fitted, leading to substantial future Boeing 767 Tanker and Boeing 777: and business experienced a successful year in production sales.
on industrial gas turbines with equipment its traditional offshore hydro-carbon for the Rolls-Royce RB211 and Trent production market and continued to develop Product development programmes engines, and a high recovery valve for the new, long term products.
In addition, we progressed well.
Our fibre optic towed GE Frame 6 engine.
These successes tested key components of a steam-methane decoy was fully qualified and successfully should lead to additional sales of circa reformer capable of producing hydrogen fuel completed all flight tests on the Block 60 US$100 million over the next decade.
We designed, built and tested a F-16.
Fully accepted by the customer, Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 07 it will become the worlds first operational In 2003, following management winning climate control and position sensor fibre optic towed decoy system to enter restructuring in the previous year, the designs from Hella, Preh and Bosch for volume production.
We were selected to division launched a continuous improvement Mercedes Benz, Audi, VW and GM.
We play a major role on the ITT Raytheon initiative to enhance productivity and secured design wins from Lear, Eaton and MoDAS team.
The Modular Defensive customer service by expanding process Preh in the United States and achieved Aids System is intended to protect the capabilities.
Our US facility delivered major sales in Asia with position sensor RAF Tornado aircraft from radar guided a 25% improvement in productivity, which, designs for Honda, Hyundai and Daewoo.
The system, which combined with an underlying volume comprises pod structure, fibre optic increase, significantly enhanced profitability.
towed decoy launch recovery systems, Outlook towlines and decoy airframes, was We reinforced our strategic focus on high Although civil aerospace original equipment successfully demonstrated to the UK performance sensing solutions for markets are expected to remain weak in Ministry of Defence in January 2004. aerospace, medical and transportation 2004, the civil aftermarket for spares and applications by disposing of the non core repairs has seen signs of recovery over the Target systems featured strongly in 2003 Meggitt Petroleum Systems businesses in last few months.
Demand for military as orders from Denmark, France, Taiwan, May 2003 for 3.2 million, completing the equipment has been, and is expected to Germany and Egypt confirmed the Banshee disposal of Meggitt Electronics Systems.
remain, robust and the recent acquisitions target systems leading market position This was followed by the divisions initiation are performing well in this market.
The and the Voodoo fast target successfully of a US$12.0 million investment in a new Electronics businesses have benefited completed its final flight trials at speeds manufacturing facility in Xiamen, China, greatly from restructuring and have enjoyed of over 300 knots.
providing the Meggitt Group with access to strong demand for their products.
low cost, highly skilled labour and a sourcing The Aerial Gunnery Target System AGATS and support location for customers in Asia.
The Group continues to generate cash in line 36 was commissioned by the Royal Thai with profits and to invest in the future with Air Force and we received orders for the Commitment to new product development engineering development and new facilities.
RM30-A reeling machine to provide training remains strong, with more than 6% of The US$12.0 million investment in China is on the German A4 aircraft.
The United revenues allocated to engineering.
States Department of Defense awarded won the designs for the Joint Strike contracts to the division for the development Fighters flight test programme and the The main area of uncertainty is the value and initial production of the Apache Aerial sensing systems that monitor the health of the US dollar.
Around 75% of the Groups Weapon Scoring Systems.
of the aircrafts lift fan and drive system.
profits are made in the USA and the recent Progress in medical sensors solutions was weakness in the dollar will reduce the evidenced by the development of a new translation of those profits into sterling.
Electronics titanium diaphragm sensor for in vitro However, with the underlying order book The Electronics business delivered medical condition monitoring.
at the end of January 2004 up 7% over significant gains in sales and operating January 2003, the Group is on track to performance in 2003.
Turnover from There was strong demand for network deliver a strong underlying performance continuing operations rose by 4% to 71.2 sensing solutions that combine integrated in 2004.
In consequence, the Directors million 2002: 68.6 million.
At constant processing and communications are recommending a final dividend exchange rates, turnover rose by 10%.
capabilitycustomers included the United increase of 7%.
Operating profit from continuing States government, Boeing and the operations rose by 68% to 11.2 million Japanese space agency, JAXA.
Significant 2002: 6.7 million and the order book at increases were recorded for platform safety the end of December was 18% higher at testing and transportation applications.
constant exchange rates than 12 months earlier.
The division initiated a strategic The division consolidated its position in Terry Twigger investment in Asia for the Group.
automotive position sensors in Europe, Chief Executive
