Operating review BANKING AND SECURITIES Highlights 2003 2002 % Revenues m 278 303 8% Statutory operating profit m 44 39 14% Adjusted operating profit m 53 60 11% adjusted to exclude exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Overview IT spending in the global banking and securities industry continues to be affected by reductions in investment, particularly by financial institutions with exposure to equity markets and investment banking.
Although there has been some recovery since April, equity markets are still at low levels and the number of public equity offerings in 2002 was the Front row, left to right: Ivan Martin, Chief Executive, Banking and Securities lowest for a decade.
Division: Helen ODea, Chief Executive Officer, Risk Management Systems: Wayne Ginn, Chief Executive Officer, Retail Banking Systems: Gilles Acogny, However, despite the generally negative climate for IT Marketing and Global Accounts Director, Banking and Securities Division.
spending, the market for third party software is proving Back row, left to right: Stephen Gowers, Business Development Director, Banking and Securities Division: Chris Potts, Chief Executive, Asset resilient and has good prospects for a return to growth.
We Management Systems: Barry Moloney, Finance Director, Banking and Securities continue to see strong evidence of a shift away from in-house Division: Andrew White, Chief Executive Officer, Wholesale Banking Systems: Herv Baulme, Chief Executive Officer, Summit Systems: Andy Oakes, development in favour of third party software applications Commercial Director, Banking and Securities Division: Frank Walter, Chief and there is evidence that discretionary spending overall is Executive Officer, Securities Trading Systems.
In an economic environment of slower growth, and with We continue to see strong pressure from shareholders to improve returns, discretionary evidence of a shift away from investment in third party software is being justified by banks around the world in relation to a number of sound, long term in-house development in commercial imperatives: favour of third party software Global processing: by introducing centralised processing applications and there is operations, banks can reduce the total number of systems deployed and hence total support costs evidence that discretionary Straight through processing STP : by eliminating manual or spending overall is starting duplicate processes, banks can reduce both cost and risk to bottom out.
New technology: the industry is gradually adopting web services infrastructures allowing easier and less expensive integration of services from third party software vendors with existing systems Higher transaction volumes: new application software can help banks to process greater volumes of transactions more efficiently and with reduced error rates We are increasingly leveraging technology to expand our delivery channels and to offer cost effective services to our large customer base.
We chose Misys because they are one of the few global players who can help us meet our IT ambitions.
Shri K. V. Krishnamurthy Chairman and Managing Director, Bank of India 16 Misys Annual Report 2003 Furthermore, the banking software market is underpinned creation of six distinct market facing businesses operating in by the fact that a substantial proportion of software spending, the wholesale banking, retail banking, treasury and capital particularly for mid-sized institutions is, in effect, nonmarkets, risk, asset management and securities trading sectors.
discretionary, as it is driven by the need to maintain banks The review also confirmed that difficult market conditions compliance with an ever growing burden of regulation and would persist, as banks made further reductions in their IT financial reporting, including International Accounting budgets, particularly in the first half.
In response, we took Standards.
This burden now includes the continuing obligation prompt and effective action in the middle of the year to reduce to monitor risk and capital requirements arising from the the level of overheads in the business in order to maintain Basle II Accord, as well as a myriad of changes to regulations profitability.
In doing so, we were also able to continue the in local jurisdictions.
process of moving development and support resources to Against this background, we expect our major markets in lower cost locations in both India and the Philippines.
wholesale banking, treasury, and capital markets core systems Professional services revenues have been disproportionately to return to growth, in due course, and to offer further affected in the current downturn as banks have sought to opportunities for the expansion of our business.
The retail reduce their reliance on external contractors.
Notwithstanding banking market has been less affected by cutbacks in IT this, we believe that as demand grows, there will be spending and we expect this market to show continued opportunities to increase the ratio of professional services growth.
Those markets which are more directly exposed to to licence sales across the Division.
The new organisation the downturn in equities, specifically asset management structure places more emphasis on the range and capability and securities trading, are likely to remain difficult for longer, of our professional services offerings, and this has already though we also believe that there will be opportunities for enabled us to secure some sizeable services contracts to growth in targeted sectors of the asset management market.
implement our software products during the fourth quarter.
Business Review During the first half of the year, we The benefits of this more focused approach to professional conducted a wide ranging review of our strategy in the services should be seen later in the current financial year.
banking and securities software markets.
The objective was to In Wholesale Banking, the significant investment we have identify the size and dynamics of these markets, estimated at recently made in the Midas product led to the launch of a around US$7bn annually in third party software licence fees new thin client version of the software, using Java technology, alone, and to determine which markets and sectors were likely and the launch of our Global Processing capability.
These to deliver higher growth rates in the medium term.
Based on developments were well received by the Midas customer base this analysis, we have decided how we intend to change the and helped deliver a strong performance for this product, shape of the business portfolio, where we intend to focus our especially in the second half when several large orders were resources and what specific market strategies to pursue in secured, including one from the Bank of India.
In April 2003, we announced the acquisition of Crossmar Findings from the review have led to a reorganisation of the Matching Service CMS, a subsidiary of Citicorp, for a Division.
The global banking and securities software market consideration of US$13m.
CMS provides a web based comprises a number of quite distinct sectors, which vary in confirmation matching service for foreign exchange and competitive structure, geographic scope and customer buying money market transactions.
The CMS matching engine behaviour.
In order to compete most effectively in each of our currently handles in excess of US$100bn in transactions chosen market sectors, we have restructured the Division to for around 800 customers worldwide.
CMS has now been create business units aligned with market sectors.
The renamed Misys CMS and forms part of Misys Wholesale restructuring took effect in March 2003 and led to the Banking Systems.
Risk Vision has given Commerzbank a very clear picture of the risk in our investment banking activities.
Today we can really break it down, analyse it, structure it, report it and also mitigate it, which enables us to avoid big risks, but also to use these risks to make more money.
Herr Marcus Rumpel Global Head of Investment Banking Credit, Commerzbank Group www.
com 17 Operating review continued Our strategic review identified retail banking as a key current in the prestigious Banker magazine technology awards and future growth market.
The newly created Misys Retail for 2003, where Misys was the only software vendor to win Banking Systems business, already with a significant market three awards.
share in a number of geographic markets, is now focused Future Opportunities Misys is one of the top three on implementing a strategy for profitable growth in this vendors of banking software products in the world and the important sector.
Sales in the Middle East were temporarily largest outside the US.
We have a broad product portfolio, held back by the conflict in Iraq, but we made significant including some of the most successful banking applications progress elsewhere in our target markets.
In doing so, we ever developed, as well as a number which are at an early won contracts in Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe and won our stage of commercialisation.
We have unrivalled international first retail banking contract in Germany with Hanseatic Bank.
reach and an experienced, professional management team.
We also increased investment in our lower cost offshore Our business is exceptionally well placed to exploit growth development and support centres.
opportunities in the third party banking software markets, In the treasury and capital markets arena, Summit performed both organically and through further targeted acquisitions.
well despite continuing difficult market conditions.
Summit We have leading positions in the wholesale, treasury and has maintained a strong focus on the needs of its customers capital markets sectors.
Underlying growth in these markets, and has developed a clear product strategy for the future.
together with opportunities to extend the functionality of our This involves a move to.
Net technology, a new state of the products and the range of services we offer, will continue to art presentation layer and user interface, as well as significant provide a source of growth.
Summits recent progress, despite additional functionality.
Summit grew its revenues, using difficult market conditions, and the avenues opened up by the constant exchange rates, by 10% compared to 2002 and acquisition of CMS, provide evidence of the scope for growth secured several major contracts.
Revenues in both the Securities Trading and Asset Elsewhere in the Division, we have strong products in markets Management businesses declined year on year, despite better with opportunities for more rapid growth.
In retail banking, performances in the second half.
These businesses both in risk management, and in the front middle office in asset operate in markets that are particularly sensitive to the general management, we are making targeted investments to take economic climate and to weakness in the equity markets.
advantage of market trends and to build leadership positions.
However, our strategic review identified asset management as The retail banking opportunity is driven by the constant a sector with good long term growth prospects, particularly growth in the underlying volume of retail banking customer for vendors of front middle office systems.
The opportunity in risk management is driven we announced the acquisition of Eagleye Solutions Limited largely by the Basle II Accord, which will require banks to take Eagleye, a young business with a state of the art compliance an enterprise wide approach to all kinds of risk, therefore product that enables managers to validate positions in real necessitating the implementation of new systems.
In asset time against breaches of client mandates and institutional and management, the opportunity is driven by heightened government regulations.
This acquisition fits well with our competition and a greater burden of regulation governing the strategy in asset management, and is complementary to the way in which professional fund managers operate.
In each of Apollo portfolio management system, which achieved its first these cases we have a real opportunity to exploit existing international sales this year.
assets and to leverage the scale of the division to establish fast growing businesses.
Apollo Institutional Management, Apollo Private Wealth Management and Eagleye all won their respective categories Summit has a very good reputation and track record and as we examined its capabilities we could see why this is so.
The range of supported financial instruments is excellent.
The size of Summits presence in Paris, and the fact that the company is part of the Misys Group, also weighed in its favour.
Pierre Jenny Director of Financial Planning, Caisse Nationale des Caisses dEpargne 18 Misys Annual Report 2003 HEALTHCARE Highlights 2003 2002 % Revenues m 298 286 4% Statutory operating profit m 26 21 25% Adjusted operating profit m 48 47 2% adjusted to exclude exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Overview Spending on healthcare in the US continues to grow at nearly 10% per annum, despite weakness in the overall economy.
The rapid and unstinting growth in the industry is driven by a number of factors, including the ageing of the population, the spiralling cost of prescription drugs, and the unfettered cost of malpractice litigation.
Whatever its Front row, left to right: Andrew Lawson, President, Hospital Systems: broader consequences, this environment provides a fertile Tom Skelton, Chief Executive Officer, Misys Healthcare Systems: Marsha Morgan, Sr. Vice President HR, Misys Healthcare Systems: Charles Lambert, setting for the IT applications market, as the implementation Chief Financial Officer, Misys Healthcare Systems: Keith Sturges, Chief Executive of more and better systems is widely recognised as essential Officer, Homecare Systems.
for industry wide cost containment.
An estimated 40% of Back row, left to right: Keith Hagen, President, Transaction Services: every healthcare dollar spent at present goes to the Rich Goldberg, Vice President Business Development, Misys Healthcare Systems.
administration of care, rather than the provision of care itself.
Concern about this deep seated inefficiency was one of the Spending on healthcare in factors which caused the US government to pass the Health the US continues to grow Information Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA.
This legislation will help to drive the use of electronic systems for at nearly 10% per annum, originating and processing payments throughout the despite weakness in the healthcare industry.
Wider use of IT solutions is also seen as critical to success overall economy.
in a second, and perhaps more important, industry wide imperative, to improve the quality of care delivered.
This concern is best addressed by widespread adoption of clinical systems, including the Electronic Medical Record EMR in the physicians office and homecare environment, and the Computerised Patient Record CPR in the hospital.
The need to implement such solutions has been endorsed by a number of independent and influential bodies.
A recent study by the Institute of Medicine IOM, an arm of the well-regarded National Academy of Sciences, identified IT as a key tool in improving the quality of care delivered by the US healthcare system.
The Leapfrog Group, a consortium of large US employers, is lobbying publicly for the adoption of EMR in the physicians office and Computerised Physician Order Entry We chose Misys because we were impressed with its robust Laboratory and Radiology products, its people and their long standing track record for outstanding service.
Richard Shirey Chief Information Officer, Medcath Inc www.
com 19 Operating review continued CPOE, the specialised physician module of a CPR, in exceptional product quality through our unique understanding the hospital, as two primary methods for improving patient of physicians and other caregivers.
Simply put, our products safety.
The HIPAA legislation will also play a role in promoting will enable clinicians to easily manage the complexities of the use of clinical systems.
The privacy and confidentiality healthcare across the whole continuum of care.
As such, we provisions of this legislation have now come into force, and in have placed an increased emphasis on our market specific order to ensure compliance with these rules, many physicians clinical applications.
who have not previously used EMR systems will be strongly In Physician Systems, the marketplace is becoming induced to do so.
The continuing roll out of the HIPAA increasingly EMR led and we focused our efforts last year programme will, for this reason, only help to increase growth on harnessing this trend.
Orders for our EMR product grew in the EMR market.
substantially over the previous year and we continued a The next phase of HIPAA implementation focuses on defining major programme of investment in the onward development a standard transaction set, which will govern electronic of the product.
At the same time, Misys Tiger, our physician communications between providers and health insurance practice management system targeted at small to medium companies.
Such standardisation, and required compliance to sized practices, also continued to grow.
We are excited to see the standard, will be a strong driver in the further adoption of the acceptance of Tiger on the Microsoft Windows platform, electronic transactions throughout the US healthcare industry.
and look forward to similar results with Misys EMR.
In the higher end of the market 25 physicians and above, Misys Beyond these specific factors, the federal government is Vision is benefiting from investments made in the product becoming more active in the healthcare arena and is steadily over the last several years.
increasing pressure on the industry to invest in clinical and administrative systems.
We expect this trend to continue in In Hospital Systems, demand for all our products and services the year ahead.
remains encouraging and the business delivered an excellent performance.
We are positioned strongly in both the Against this background, we expect to see continuing growth laboratory and radiology sectors of the market, in both of in demand for administrative and financial applications in which we are rated a top three vendor by a leading industry most market sectors, and strong growth in demand for clinical survey.
We are also gaining greater acceptance in the systems across the continuum of care.
We also expect to see pharmacy market where we have a strong product at an early strong growth and proliferation in the use of electronic stage of growth.
In February, we announced a partnership transaction services.
These trends guide our strategy in the with eRad, a leading provider of Picture Archiving and development of the Misys Healthcare business and give us Communication Systems PACS products.
The integration confidence that our businesses are well positioned to take of our Radiology product with the eRad PACS product makes advantage of the market opportunities likely to be available for a highly competitive offering in this high growth market.
Since the year end, we announced our intention to acquire Business Review Over the past year, the divisional from Per-S Technologies, Inc. the Patient1 product.
management team at Misys Healthcare Systems has made Patient1 is a market leading CPR CPOE product, which will great strides in simultaneously driving business performance, complement our existing portfolio of departmental solutions and re-positioning for growth in target markets.
We have a and take us into the high growth enterprise clinical solutions clear and uniting vision, to be a clinical software products market.
Patient1 had revenues of approximately vendor whose products have a reputation for being easy to US$25m in calendar year 2002.
Misys Healthcare Systems install, easy to use and easy to support.
Our goal, whether in will assume support agreements for the extensive base of the home, the hospital, or the physicians office, is to deliver Patient1 clients and will develop, market and support Misys provided us with a comprehensive, integrated solution that makes our office more efficient, gives us more space, saves money, and has enhanced our patient service.
We are extremely pleased with this overall solution.
Phyllis Helms Clinic Administrator, Dothan Pediatrics, Dothan, Alabama 20 Misys Annual Report 2003 the products as Misys CPR and Misys CPOE.
Misys will also Future Opportunities Misys Healthcare Systems has assume ownership of Decision1, the clinical data warehousing leading positions in the physician systems, hospital systems and advanced reporting tool companion to Patient1.
and transaction processing sectors of the US healthcare market.
Underlying growth in these markets, together with With the acquisition of Patient1, Misys Hospital Systems is the opportunity to exploit strong products, good service and strongly positioned to service the clinical needs of the acute national scale to gain market share, will continue to provide care enterprise, with continued backing by a suite of best of a platform for growth across the Division.
This acquisition takes us into one of the fastest growing parts of the acute care market and will Beyond this, we have the opportunity to play a leading role help to build our influence among executive management at in the growth of new markets centred on clinical automation.
the top of the enterprise.
We now have a product offering The physician systems market will be transformed as sales which positions us as a leader, and a demonstrated of EMR systems grow to the same scale as practice commitment to our strategy of focus on clinical automation.
The hospital systems market will be similarly transformed as enterprise clinical applications Misys Homecare made great progress this year as ILF order gain widespread acceptance and change the way in which intake grew by 39%.
Led by the newest versions of our clinical information is used in the acute care setting.
In Windows SQL Server based products, there has been addition, the transaction services market will show dramatic tremendous acceptance of our clinical field devices in both growth when new types of clinical and administrative homecare and hospice facilities.
Our product in the homecare transactions start to gain ground.
market is a state of the art, integrated clinical and administrative system, which has recently been rated first by a leading Our existing market positions have been established and industry survey.
sustained by combining a deep understanding of physicians and other caregivers working practices with expertise in the Transaction Services, the electronic data interchange EDI management of software products.
This skill, together with clearing house business based in Austin, Texas, achieved solid our existing products and customer relationships, gives us a growth and now handles in excess of 365 million transactions unique opportunity to exploit the growth in clinical systems per annum.
We are actively pursuing opportunities to extend and transaction services.
The results of our clinical focus will our transaction services business on three fronts.
Firstly, while be reflected in further rapid growth in EMR sales, with the a large proportion of our practice management system establishment of fast growing new revenue lines in our customer base uses our transaction services, these customers Transaction Services business, and in the success of our suite do not always give us all of their transactions.
Our internal of acute clinical products, including the new RIS PACS offer, research has shown that increasing the proportion of our Misys CPR and Misys CPOE.
existing customers transactions business which we capture represents a major opportunity for the business.
Secondly, we In addition, we expect increased opportunities for cowill be rolling out several new EDI products such as laboratory operation with non Misys practice management vendors and orders results, electronic prescriptions, insurance eligibility continued strong growth in Homecare, as we expand market checking, and commercial payer remits transactions.
Lastly, share in a rapidly growing segment.
we have started to offer our transaction services to other practice management system vendors, opening this business up to large parts of the market which we have not previously addressed, and we have recently signed the first deal of this kind.
An EMR system organises all of my information into an easily accessible format so that I dont have to treat my patients without all the information.
I have everything right at my fingertips and I think the quality of my practice has definitely increased by using Misys EMR.
Dr William Bodenheimer Antietam Health Services, Maryland www.
com 21 Operating review continued FINANCIAL SERVICES Highlights 2003 2002 % Revenues m 438 452 3% Statutory operating profit m 5 Adjusted operating profit m 34 29 18% adjusted to exclude exceptional items and goodwill amortisation LIFE AND PENSIONS Overview Our business in the UK life and pensions market centres on the provision of services to IFAs.
At the core of this service offering is the outsourcing of regulatory compliance.
We provide this service by operating a regulated network, to which our IFA customers belong.
There is a significant Left to right: Patrick Gale, Chief Executive Officer, Sesame: Martin Davis, economy of scale in the outsourcing of compliance services Commercial Director, Sesame: Charles Bryant, Chief Executive Officer, AssureWeb: Michael Couzens, Compliance Director, Sesame: Doug Morris, in this way and, notwithstanding proposed changes to the Chief Technical Officer, Sesame: Mark Wadelin, Finance Director, Sesame: regulatory regime operated by the Financial Services Authority Kevin Budge, Operations Director, Sesame.
FSA, the burden of compliance in this industry is unlikely to reduce.
We are determined that Sesame Over the past year the number of Registered Individuals RIs in our regulated network has fallen.
Whilst we continue to should set the standard for recruit new firms, in the current investment climate member firms, who have traditionally recruited new RIs, have been customer service in the industry.
removing poor performers and recruiting at a slower rate.
Uncertainty surrounding proposed changes to the regulatory regime, together with the more stringent regulations in place since December 2001, has contributed to the pressure on IFAs which has caused many to leave the industry.
Furthermore, some IFAs who remain in the industry have chosen to leave regulated networks such as ours in the hope that they will have an easier time when regulated directly by the FSA.
We have taken steps to improve our offer to IFAs and we are confident that our scale and our skills provide the basis of a sound business.
When conditions in the market improve we expect the decline in member numbers to reverse.
In the meantime, the business, which is the leader in its market, is well placed to take advantage of market opportunities.
Business Review Despite the decline in the number of RIs in our regulated network, the business overall delivered a solid financial performance during the past year.
This was partly We view our relationship with Misys as one of partnership.
Since combining their networks into Sesame we have been very impressed with their focus on customer service and renewed emphasis on delivering value for money.
When we combine these factors with their progressive approach to regulation we look positively on our future association with them Doug Brodie Director, Master Adviser, London 22 Misys Annual Report 2003 due to the development of non-commission income streams During the year, two further providers, Clerical Medical and relating to additional services offered to our members.
Aegon UK, were brought into the agreement reached the However, our central focus throughout the year was on previous year to secure provider funding for the e-trading strengthening the core business.
This will also assist us in delivering new comparison quote services to the market, most notably in In April 2003, we announced a blueprint for the Misys IFA pensions and annuities.
Five product providers have related businesses, which are to be brought together under collectively made a 9.2m investment to enhance and develop a new name, Sesame Group.
Sesame will begin operating the portal, as well as committing to payments of 16.8m for as a single regulated entity on 1 August 2003.
This will be services related to usage of the portal over three years.
The comfortably the largest IFA network in the UK.
As part of this five providers jointly own 40% of AssureWeb with Misys blueprint we announced a number of measures to improve retaining a 60% interest.
The agreement has led to a our service offering to our members, including a new pricing significant increase in usage by RIs and lays the foundation structure.
We are determined that Sesame should set the for our ultimate goal of placing life business electronically, standard for customer service in the industry and the which should start to come on stream next year.
management team has made good progress towards that objective this year.
The Group also confirmed its intention to Outlook The IFA industry is currently suffering from float Sesame and to give members the opportunity to participate adverse market conditions and regulatory uncertainty.
Few in the float by way of an allocation of 10% of the equity.
Our businesses in this industry are well capitalised and many will members and provider partners have welcomed these initiatives find it difficult to sustain their operations until market conditions enthusiastically.
Earlier in the year, we also formally launched improve.
Our business has a professional management team, our service for directly regulated IFAs, which will be known as operational scale, and a strong technology solution.
We are Sesame Direct from 1 August, and customer numbers for this firmly committed to the successful development of this service rose to over 1,000 RIs by the end of the financial year.
business, and we believe that its medium term growth prospects are good.
In the short term we will continue to We have also strengthened the operational basis of our business focus on delivering good service and value for money to our by taking a number of actions: we have used our scale to members.
We are confident that this will stand us in good negotiate, on behalf of our members, the best professional stead, as and when conditions overall in the life and pensions indemnity cover available in the market: the establishment of market improve.
our state of the art business monitoring unit in India is on track: and we are taking steps to improve our core systems.
In addition, we see a number of opportunities for profitable growth in the year ahead.
The extension of FSA regulation to In August last year, we launched our IFA desktop software, the mortgage and general insurance industries should provide mi-solution, to a pilot group of 95 network members and 25 scope for us to leverage our compliance and provider administrators.
This solution provides business and compliance management skills.
As the changes to the regulatory structure support throughout the IFA advice process and will enable of the market are implemented, we continue to believe that full end to end trading through its seamless integration with there may be an opportunity for Sesame to develop a multi-tie AssureWeb.
This year, we have sold a further 1,000 RI seats offering for some of its customers, which would be capable of of mi-solution and now have over 2,000 active users.
We creating real value in the market.
Likewise, we are monitoring anticipate that, over time, mi-solution will transform the the emergence of wrap account services and expect to be productivity of our RIs, allowing them to manage their core able to enhance our wealth management offerings to our IFA advice service in a manner that ensures regulatory compliance customers in due course.
while also being quick and efficient.
The care Misys has shown for our business, coupled with the effective Professional Indemnity Insurance management ensures we continue to be very satisfied with the service offered via the network route.
Mark Minton RBR Financial Services Ltd www.
com 23 Operating review continued GENERAL INSURANCE Overview Brokers represent the largest distribution channel for general insurance in the UK, and the market for broker systems has shown steady, if moderate, growth.
The sale of general insurance will be subject to statutory regulation by the FSA for the first time from early in 2005, and this may drive some increase in spending on systems, as well as providing opportunities for our broker network to offer new services.
Misys is the leading supplier of systems and network services to general insurance brokers in the UK with over 2,000 customer sites.
This business is well positioned to take advantage of market opportunities and we expect it to continue to perform well.
Left to right: Phillip Bell, Chief Executive: Chris Guillaume, Operations Director: Business Review The business has made good progress Wendy Swann, Human Resources Director: Stephen James, Research and Development Director: James Gamble, Sales and Marketing Director: Mark Ryder, in developing its product and service offering while delivering Commercial Director.
Our new generation of broker systems, the Microsoft based OASys products, have Misys is the leading supplier of been well received with over 750 customer sites and 6,000 users to date.
Our investment in product development will systems and network services ensure that customers for both our Tripos BROOMS and to general insurance brokers in OASys product suites are kept at the forefront of electronic trading.
We have also been working in conjunction with our the UK.
customers and leading providers to develop new products: a premium finance solution: and an electronic trading solution for the commercial lines market, OASys Commercial.
Our broker network, Countrywide, is the largest grouping of general insurance brokers in the UK, with over 900 individual member sites accounting for premium income worth over 2.6bn, or 9% of the entire UK general insurance market.
Through partnerships with major insurance companies, we provide our members with a comprehensive range of competitive facilities for writing business in personal and commercial lines.
During the year, we further strengthened this service offering.
Outlook There are exciting opportunities to expand the range of services we provide to general insurance brokers.
We are committed to helping our customers with FSA compliance, both by enhancing our IT systems and by providing additional professional services.
With our large customer base, strong product suite and an excellent management team, we are confident of further progress in the year ahead.
We wanted the right supplier one we could trust.
We like the way Misys conducts business.
Paul Ragan Motaquote 24 Misys Annual Report 2003
