REVIEW OF OPERATIONS BUSES TRAVEL WEST MIDLANDS IS THE LEADING BUS OPERATOR IN THE WEST MIDLANDS INCORPORATING TRAVEL COVENTRY, TRAVEL MIDLAND METRO AND TRAVEL DUNDEE.
THE DIVISION EMPLOYS OVER 5,500 EMPLOYEES AND OPERATES A FLEET OF 1,800 BUSES OVER 600 ROUTES.
Turnover for the period was 211.9 million 2002: 208.7 million We continue to invest in our bus operations.
In Birmingham, with operating profit of 47.2 million 2002: 49.8 million we introduced 155 new vehicles during the year which has principally impacted by the financing of new buses through resulted in 60% of the fleet now being low-floor easy access, operating leases.
Overall, performance of this business remains well above the industry average.
We have a further 155 buses strong.
Following the completion of the development works in on order for our West Midlands operation for delivery in 2004. the centre of Birmingham in September, there have been a Nearly half of the fleet has CCTV installed and during the number of traffic flow issues concentrated around the main period we extended our involvement and promotion of the shopping mall resulting in extended journey times and delays to Operation Safer Travel initiative.
We are working with Centro and the City Council to resolve these matters as quickly as possible.
In Coventry, the roll-out of the new Travel Coventry brand was completed and feedback from customers and stakeholders has We have undertaken a series of successful joint marketing been very positive.
In December we were the first bus initiatives with the local authorities to promote key events and operator to sign a Transport Partnership Concordat destinations within the West Midlands.
Many of these committing Coventry City Council, Centro and ourselves to promotions have been backed up by special travel offers giving work in partnership for the promotion and enhancement of added value to passengers.
In addition, we have joined forces bus services across the region.
We believe that this is a major with Centro to open the latest one-stop shop for travel positive step by all parties for the future development of the information and sales in the West Midlands.
We have also network of services and believe that additional quality supported Centro in their relaunch of Travelwise which partnerships will be launched on the back of this.
promotes travel by public transport and launched our first internal journey planning facility as part of the West Midlands Traveline service.
We actively encourage travel by bus as part of a journey through involvement in the PlusBus integrated railbus ticketing scheme.
18 MODERNISING INVESTING IN OUR FLEET TECHNOLOGY To support this initiative we introduced nine new low-floor articulated vehicles into the Coventry fleet which has resulted DELIVERING IMPROVING in 14% growth in passenger numbers in the first eight months.
GREATER VALUE ACCESSIBILITY In addition, the first phase of the smartcard scheme in Coventry, targeted at seniors, was launched with over 30,000 smartcards issued.
Travel Dundee performed well with an increase in patronage.
We remain committed to developing public transport services We were the first bus operator to in the West Midlands and Dundee.
We were pleased to be the first bus operator nationwide to adopt the Bus Forum Service sign a Concordat committing Stability initiative which ensures that service changes are only undertaken on a maximum of twelve dates per annum.
We Coventry City Council, Centro and remain strongly of the view that quality partnerships are the way forward for our bus operations as all our stakeholders are ourselves to work in partnership for beneficiaries.
We aim to be the first bus operator to sign a statutory quality partnership later this year.
the promotion and enhancement of bus services across the region.
We believe that the acquisition of Connex bus operations in London positions our bus division well for the future and provides the foundation for future growth opportunities.
