04 PHS Group plc In our first full year since listing on the A fourth initiative, Project Q Call, was Costs and margins We continue to invest London Stock Exchange, the Group launched recently to improve customer care.
in the improvement of route planning and demonstrated its resilience, delivering It is aimed at further improving customer service performance in order to achieve a strong setof results.
PHS Washrooms, retention by providing service staff with continuous cost reductions and productivity PHS Treadsmart, PHS Greenleaf and PHS a hot line number they can call to get improvements.
Our procurement initiatives Waterlogic all delivered improved profitability immediate action to deal with any problems to deliver real cost reductions through and our new division, Teacrate, produced a that they identify on customers sites before agreeing long-term partnership deals with healthy contribution to our results.
they become an issue for the customers our suppliers have continued with a number themselves.
This initiative complements of new contracts negotiated in the year.
The business PHS now provides services Project 24 24, which allows our These are expected to deliver annual savings in five main areas: washroom services, dust washroom customers to have their call of 1.2m in areas such as vehicle leasing, mat services, live and replica plants, point answered by a PHS employee 24 hours a plastic components and consumables.
of use water dispensers, and crate rental.
day, seven days per week and have any In addition, Project Atlas is a The Group expanded its operations into issue dealt with within 24 real-time hours.
new initiative led by PHS Treadsmart the crate rental market with the acquisition We continue to invest in our IT systems management aimed at increasing service of Teacrate in April 2002.
We continue and are on target to fully implement the staff productivity by introducing a new to be a customer-focused, sales-driven upgrade to our software, supported by software package to improve route organisation with separate sales and service a modern infrastructure, by April 2004. planning.
Once fully implemented in operations for each area of the business, The total investment in this project is the Treadsmart division, consideration supported by central marketing, IT, finance, expected to be 2.0m.
The re-engineered will be given to rolling it out across the training and administration functions.
software will improve customer service, Group as best practice.
increase the efficiency of administrative Focus Our aim is to be the first to identify processes and provide improved People The ability of our people, their the needs of our customers and produce management information.
motivation, commitment and skill is vital innovative ways of meeting those needs to our success and I would like to thank ahead of our competitors.
We believe that Acquisitions At the time of our flotation in them for their outstanding contribution.
our strong focus on putting customers first June 2001, we set out our plan to continue By providing a creative environment that and driving improvements to the services to develop our workplace services businesses gives people an opportunity to contribute we provide gives us a significant competitive by investing 100m in acquisitions over their ideas for improving our business, PHS advantage in our markets.
The amount strives to encourage the fullest contribution invested in the two years ended 31 March from its employees while at the same time Business development To support 2003 totals 67.7m.
Activity is focused on encouraging their personal development.
our healthy organic growth, business opportunities that can be bolted-on to our Our policy is to promote from within development has been driven by increased existing business, complemented by new wherever possible whilst recognising that investment in marketing, extra sales businesses in low technology, high margin, bringing in new talent from the outside will resource and the provision of new products growing markets where there is fragmented encourage the creativity and innovation for and services.
Our operational initiatives competition and a large volume of customers which we strive.
Our Group training systems aimed at improving customer retention requiring rental, service and maintenance are accredited to the Investors in People IIP and increasing the quantity of services on long-term contracts, spending relatively standard and our continued investment in and products available to customers have low sums of money.
The areas in which we these systems for the development of our proved highly successful.
Leads United, operate will also typically require low capital staff saw over 4,600 training days delivered our ongoing initiative to encourage our investment and be strongly cash generative.
employees to generate sales leads, provided The Group made 16 acquisitions in the an impressive 43,000 leads this year.
The majority Outlook Our aim is to be the best Project Matrix is a new marketing of these acquisitions were bolted-on to workplace services provider in the UK, initiative, aimed at leveraging our existing our existing washroom services business, offering quality and value to our customers, customer database to target those although the largest individual acquisition and a challenging, rewarding career for customers where we believe we can at a cost of 14.6m, was the crate rental everyone in the Group.
cross-sell additional products and services.
This acquisition took Our strong financial position combined We have also continued our Project Fast us into a new market that complements with high profit and cash generation and Response initiative, which implements the rest of the Group and fits with our complemented by our many new initiatives ideas from our own employees on customer established acquisition criteria, being and ideas, puts us in an enviable position retention through delivering better service a low technology rental business requiring to continue our profitable growth in the and taking ownership of customer needs.
low capital investment while generating year ahead.
We are confident of a successful This initiative has played a significant role high margins.
in the improvement of customer retention rates across the Group.
Peter Cohen Chief Executive The most significant of the 16 acquisitions during the year are set out below: Business name Business activity Consideration m Teacrate Rentals Limited Rental of specialist crates to the UK office and commercial moving market.
April 2002 This acquisition took the Group into this market for the first time.
14.6 The Well Corporation Limited Clinical waste collection and disposal.
This acquisition was a bolt-on to our May 2002 existing clinical waste business.
5.7 Hygeni-Care Limited Provision of washroom services.
This acquisition was a bolt-on to our September 2002 existing washroom services business.
3.2 Redland Hygiene Limited Tele-sales of washroom and workplace consumables.
This acquisition was a October 2002 bolt-on to our existing washroom tele-selling business.
2.3 Britannia Hygiene plc Provision of washroom services.
This acquisition was a bolt-on to our December 2002 existing washroom services business.
3.8 Other 7.9 37.5 05 PHS Group plc Chief Executives review Peter Cohen 06 PHS Group plc clean 07 PHS Group plc PHS Washrooms PHS Washrooms, Both PHS Direct, which tele-sells washroom the number two provider of washroom consumables, and PHS All Clear, our clinical equipment and servicing in the UK, waste business, contributed to the overall grew turnover from 83.8m to 99.5m, improved performance of the division.
Both an increase of 18.7% in the year.
were grown through a combination of Divisional operating profit before central organic and acquisition growth.
costs grew from 40.0m to 46.0m, an Significant contract wins included the increase of 15.0%.
The margin moved from UK contract for the supermarket chain 47.7% to 46.3% as a result of variations Asda and three-year contracts to supply in the mix of products and services sold.
Greene King and The Laurel Pub Group.
PHS Washrooms contributed 71.1% The fastest growing product group continues of Group turnover and 81.7% of Group to be air fresheners, where double-digit operating profit before central costs.
organic growth in the contract pool has The development of the business was been achieved.
driven by an increase in sales resource and Previous investment in customer additional investment in marketing to help retention along with our newer initiatives enhance the productivity of our sales force.
such as Project Q Call has helped improve New products launched included the new contractual customer retention to 87% for Ultra Aire air filtration unit and a new the year 2002: 85%.
In particular, we are water management system which regulates continuing to implement the best of the water flow.
Both products were developed ideas contributed by our people and selected in-house at our Tamworth design and by the Project Fast Response team.
These and other new During the year, 20.6m was invested products have additional features and in 11 acquisitions, including The Well benefits, which enable PHS to achieve Corporation Limited which was bolted-on higher average rental prices.
to our existing clinical waste business.
The collection and disposal of The acquisitions of Hygeni-Care Limited pharmaceutical and dental waste businesses and Britannia Hygiene plc amongst others have been grown both organically and by provided significant levels of business to acquisition.
PHS is UK market leader in both be bolted-on to the existing core business.
of these niche markets where management Management continues to see a large see opportunities to expand further and number of potential acquisition targets achieve profitable growth.
in the UK washrooms services market.
Operating review PHS Washrooms Intelligently Clean PHS Washrooms intelligent water management system helps create the perfect balance between hygiene and economy.
Using innovative technology, the system automatically adjusts the flushing of the urinal to match actual usage.
This innovative product is part of our extensive range supplied to keep washrooms clean and hygienic.
08 PHS Group plc PHS Treadsmart PHS Treadsmart, the In October 2002, PHS Treadsmart number one provider and maintainer introduced a new range of speciality of standard and speciality mats in the UK, mats, including leisure and sports mats for grew turnover from 13.5m to 14.4m, swimming pools and sports centres, aqua an increase of 6.7% in the year.
mats for kitchens and food preparation Divisional operating profit before central areas and magna mats for clean room costs grew from 3.4m to 3.9m, an environments such as laboratories, electronic increase of 14.7%.
The margin improved manufacturing and research establishments.
As one of the largest mat purchasers in PHS Treadsmart contributed 10.3% Europe, our work with mat technologists of Group turnover and 7.0% of Group around the world allows us to develop our operating profits before central costs.
product range to offer creative solutions to The growth in both turnover and meet the needs of our customers, frequently operating profit was driven by the increased introducing new mat technologies to the demand for speciality mats, which now UK market for the first time.
makes up over half of the divisions A new service centre was opened contractual business.
These mats are in Andover in the first half to improve custom-made with the customer choosing the customer service in that region and the size and design and then manufactured a number of initiatives, including a Good to a high standard by carefully selected to Come Back to PHS campaign, were third parties.
This contributed The improvement in the margin to PHS Treadsmart improving contractual was the result of three main factors: an customer retention to 86% for the year improvement in the rental pool mix away 2002: 85%.
from standard and into speciality mats: improvements in service productivity from the Groups initiatives in this area: and the positive impact of price changes across all product groups.
Operating review PHS Treadsmart Safe and Hygienic PHS Treadsmarts leisure mat provides an attractive, anti-slip and hygienic solution for leisure industry wet areas such as swimming pools and shower rooms.
Manufactured from 97% recycled materials with integral anti-microbial properties, the mat provides a safe and durable floor covering.
This mat forms part of our extensive range of speciality mats suitable for all environments.
09 PHS Group plc safe 10 PHS Group plc natural 11 PHS Group plc PHS Greenleaf At PHS Greenleaf, the Throughout the year, PHS Greenleaf number one provider and maintainer continued to win major competitive of live and replica plants to commercial contracts including the UK contract for premises in the UK, turnover fell from Lloyds TSB and a substantial new contract 14.1m to 13.2m as the result of a cyclical for Alton Towers, which commenced downturn in the market, a reduction of installation in May 2003.
New container designs and creative Despite this, divisional operating profit offerings were launched in the year to before central costs remained at 2.0m improve the range of products available to with the margin improving from 14.1% our customers.
to improving the range of products on offer PHS Greenleaf contributed 9.4% is particularly important when bidding for of Group turnover and 3.6% of Group large projects.
PHS Greenleaf won awards operating profit before central costs.
from the City of London for creative Management attention was focused planting in the year of the Queens Jubilee.
on achieving cost reductions to produce The appointment of a new divisional enhanced margins despite the temporary Managing Director in December 2002 fall in demand.
This fall is being addressed has led to the introduction of a number by a recent reorganisation of the sales of initiatives which have begun to deliver management structure and investment benefits that are expected to continue in additional resource in the sales area into the new financial year and beyond.
to ensure PHS Greenleaf is better equipped These initiatives have helped to control to maintain and grow the levels of business subcontractor costs, improve stock control in the medium term.
Customer retention and raised the quality and timeliness was 74% 2002: 71%.
Operating review PHS Greenleaf Positively Natural PHS Greenleafs extensive range of live plants will enhance any working environment.
Studies have shown that introducing live plants to the workplace can have a positive effect on employees, leading to increased productivity, reduced stress and lower noise levels.
The natural foliage acts as a filter, helping to remove pollution and bacteria from the air.
12 PHS Group plc PHS Waterlogic PHS Waterlogic, The launch of the WL3000 dispensers, which provides and maintains plumbed-in, which offer additional features and benefits point of use, purified water dispensers, over the previous WL950 dispensers, played grew turnover from 3.3m to 7.1m, a key role in the substantial growth of the an increase of 115.2%.
The WL3000 is available in hot, Divisional operating profit before central chilled, still and sparkling variants and costs improved from 0.9m to 2.6m, an features improved filtration systems with increase of 188.9%.
The margin improved an ultra-modern look.
On the operational side, two warehousing PHS Waterlogic contributed 5.1% and distribution centres were consolidated of Group turnover and 4.6% of Group into one modern facility near Peterborough, operating profit before central costs.
resulting in cost reductions and improved Our investment in sales and marketing customer service.
Relationships with key to rapidly grow this business focused on suppliers have been developed, allowing winning new customers and converting us to work together on value engineering existing bottled water users to the point of projects to improve quality and reduce costs.
use dispensers supplied by PHS Waterlogic.
Focus has also been directed at retaining This was achieved by promoting the simple the existing business, which achieved message about the higher quality, lower contractual customer retention of 87% for cost and greater convenience offered the year 2002: 94%.
The customer care by these point of use dispensers.
team has been strengthened and service resource for installs, repair and maintenance increased to manage the growth achieved.
Operating review PHS Waterlogic Refined for Purity PHS Waterlogics point of use WL3000 dispenser offers a three-stage purification process to ensure the water dispensed is pure and free from harmful bacteria.
The water is passed through two advanced filtration chambers and an ultraviolet sterilisation unit before being dispensed in a combination of hot, chilled, still or sparkling variants.
