06 OPERATIONAL REVIEW Production and reserves drilling.
However, production was reduced by shutdowns in the first The groups production, on a working interest basis, averaged 53,600 half and infill drilling was interrupted in the second half by the boepd, which was the same as the 2002 level.
In the first half of 2003 planned upgrade of the drilling rig to enable multi-lateral sidetracks production reached a record average level of 62,000 boepd, of long reach wells under Poole Bay.
This work is now complete and following which the September completion of the restructuring saw three long reach sidetracks are planned for 2004. the rate fall to an average of 33,900 boepd over the balance of the year, resulting in the lower annualised rate compared to the first six Production from the Kyle field continued at 5,500 boepd net 2002: months.
Production comprised 67 per cent gas and 33 per cent oil.
5,600 boepd, with uninterrupted oil and gas production via the Maersk Curlew FPSO throughout 2003.
The joint venture is currently Production for the year from the ongoing assets, retained after the reviewing options to modify facilities and significantly reduce restructuring, amounted to 35,100 boepd, compared to 34,200 boepd operating costs, thereby extending field life.
This includes an option in 2002, as increasing Asian gas more than offset a decline in the UK.
to tie-back all or part of current production to the Banff field, which lies 12km to the north of Kyle, via an existing pipeline.
A decision is Proven and probable reserves, on a working interest basis, fell to 175 expected during 2004. mmboe at the end of 2003, down from 450 mmboe a year earlier, primarily reflecting the assets sold in the restructuring.
Most of the remainder of UK production came from the Fife area, which contributed 2,900 boepd net 2002: 3,700 boepd and from The movement in booked reserves over the year was: Scott Telford 800 boepd.
Further infill drilling on Fife is under review as well as near field exploration opportunities.
mmboe Start of 2003 450 In July 2003, Premier announced the sale of a package of non-core Production 20 assets for 8.2 million in cash, 3.0 million of which is made up of Discoveries 3 deferred payments linked to first oil from discoveries.
The transaction Revisions 1 was completed before year-end.
Acquisitions 2 In Albania, Anglo-Albanian Petroleum has brought into production Impact of restructuring 259 20 newly drilled wells, with eight re-activations continuing to produce, End of 2003 175 giving average net production for the year of 200 boepd.
Whilst production has continued to increase in the year, the performance of the The amount shown for discoveries relates to the Kadanwari and field has not been sufficiently encouraging to enable the consortium to Badhra fields in Pakistan.
Minor revisions both up and down were proceed with further development, and accordingly preparations are in made to a number of fields in the UK, Pakistan and Indonesia, while hand for Premier to withdraw from the project in 2004. the acquisition relates to the Chinguetti field in Mauritania.
The Chinguetti acquisition reflects only the 29.9 per cent equity share of Pakistan the company which was acquired from Fusion before the end of 2003 was a successful year for Premier in Pakistan with record net 2003.
The amount attributable to the restructuring disposals production levels as developments were completed on three gas represents 170 mmboe in respect of the Yetagun field in Myanmar, fields Qadirpur, Bhit and Zamzama which virtually doubled our and 89 mmboe in respect of the West Natuna Gas Project in gas production by the end of the year, to approximately 10,000 Indonesia.
At year-end booked reserves comprised 17 per cent oil boepd, in line with our plan.
Production, net to Premier, averaged and 83 per cent gas.
8,052 boepd in 2003, some 43 per cent above the preceding year 2002: 5,600 boepd.
Total reserves are expected to be in excess of 200 mmboe, including as yet unbooked reserves remaining to be commercialised in respect The Qadirpur gas field was the largest contributor to production, of the unsold gas in Indonesia, together with the Chinguetti field and amounting to 2,536 boepd.
Expansion of the Qadirpur processing Tiof discoveries in Mauritania following completion of the Fusion facilities to 400 million standard cubic feet of gas per day mmscfd deal and subsequent pre-emption.
was completed in late 2003, with further expansion to 500 mmscfd due for completion in 2004.
Europe Production in the UK for 2003 was 15,300 boepd, down 17 per cent Zamzama field production averaged 2,335 boepd net to Premier on the previous year a reflection of natural decline in mature fields following full field development completion and commissioning in and accounted for 29 per cent of group production.
This percentage June 2003 with contractual sales commencing in July.
Field drilling is less than the previous year 35 per cent as UK production has was successful, defining additional reserves in particular the continued to decline while gas volumes from South and South East Zamzama East-1 exploration well.
Commissioning of the new Bhit gas field plant was completed in the The Wytch Farm oil field remains as Premiers main oil producing field first quarter of 2003 and at year-end average annual production to in the UK, contributing 5,600 boepd net 2002: 6,900 boepd.
Production decline in this mature asset has been mitigated by infill 07 Production from the Kadanwari gas field declined to 1,190 boepd corresponding increase in condensate production to approximately 2002: 1,500 boepd.
The Kadanwari West-1 exploration well, drilled 11,500 barrels per day, with effect from April 2004. on a newly defined western extension of the field, was successful, flowing over 15 mmscfd.
This field extension is targeted to be tied Preparatory work was also commenced for a programme of infill into the Kadanwari plant and onstream by end 2004. production drilling to obtain the additional gas required to meet the step up in gas sales quantities in April 2004.
Two low cost appraisal wells were drilled in the year to appraise the Badhra field, in the Kirthar licence south-east of Bhit.
Badhra reserves Exploration and appraisal are expected to be developed in due course through the Bhit field.
Premier participated in eleven exploration and appraisal wells during 2003 five in Pakistan of which two were operated, four Indonesia non-operated wells in Mauritania and two operated wells in 2003 saw record levels of production in Indonesia for the second Indonesia.
There were significant commercial successes in Mauritania successive year.
Even after the restructuring, which resulted in a with the Tiof and Tiof West discoveries and the Chinguetti-4-5 reduction in Premiers operated interest in the West Natuna Gas appraisal well.
The Zamzama East-1 and Kadanwari West-1 wells, Project block A from 66.7 per cent to 28.7 per cent net together with the Badhra-2 long-term production test, in Pakistan, production was 18,900 boepd, compared with 18,300 boepd in 2002. also contributed to an excellent 50 per cent commercial success The high level of gas produced resulted from strong demand by the rate overall for the year.
Singapore based end users, and was achieved notwithstanding brief periods of shut-down later in the year.
In June a milestone of two years In addition, the portfolio has been quickly replenished to create an continuous operations without a lost time incident was achieved.
exciting drilling programme for 2004 and beyond.
A programme of some 15-18 wells in 2004 is planned, comprising three targets in Commercial and technical activity directed towards a second sale of Gabon, a return to the Sinapa prospect offshore Guinea Bissau, gas from block A to Singapore has continued throughout the year where a well is currently operating, up to nine wells in Mauritania, and into 2004.
Premier has been nominated as the supplier by the one well in each of the UK, India and Pakistan, with one or two wells Indonesian government on behalf of partners Amerada Hess, Kufpec in Indonesia.
This programme provides an attractive mix of high and Petronas.
It is hoped that agreement can be reached in 2004, risk high reward and medium risk medium reward wells.
enabling new sales to commence and reach plateau in 2007.
In addition, preparations are advanced for the award of engineering and UK design contracts for the West Lobe tower development, part of the Premier concluded a farm-in agreement with Reach Exploration Ltd ongoing field development plan needed to support the first gas sales in July 2003 and acquired a 50 per cent equity as operator in the contract, once Indonesian government approvals are received.
Moray Firth licence P1048 covering blocks 20 10b, 21 6a, 20 15a and 21 11b.
Following reprocessing of 3D seismic last year, the joint Myanmar venture will spud a high risk high reward well in March 2004.
In the The restructuring has resulted in the disposal of all of Premiers 21st licence round announced in July 2003, Premier acquired a interests in Myanmar to former shareholder Petronas, after a period 30 per cent equity in blocks 39 2b and 39 7 adjacent to our Fife of 13 years of involvement in that country.
area acreage, and reprocessing of seismic is planned in the shortterm.
Premier continues to pursue high quality exploration During the eight and a half months of 2003 until disposal, gross opportunities offshore UK, through farm-in opportunities and average gas production from the Premier operated Yetagun gas field licence round awards.
was 74.7 mmscfd and gross average condensate production 8,017 barrels per day.
This gave Premier a combined annualised net Pakistan production for the year of 11,200 boepd, the same as in 2002.
In the Dumbar exploration concession the exploration well Zirkani-1 encountered gas in two zones and appraisal studies are underway.
Up to September 2003, nominations had been consistently received Preparations to drill the Chung-1 exploration well close to the Bhit from the gas buyer PTT for up to 300 mmscfd, which represents the field are currently under-way, and the well will spud in the second full daily contractual quantity DCQ of 260 mmscfd plus an additional quarter of 2004.
A 47.5 per cent working interest share of the northern 15 per cent contract entitlement as specified in the gas sales part of Dumbar Dumbar B was farmed out in the year to Eni.
A further four condensate offtakes were successfully made portion of the block includes Chung and a satellite prospect.
in the period from the floating storage and offtake vessel, giving a gross total of nearly 5 million barrels lifted since commencement of During the year Premier disposed of its interest in the Dadhar production from Yetagun.
exploration concession, located in Balochistan.
Premier also farmed out its share in the Zarghun South gas field to Mari Gas Company Following the successful phase II capacity upgrade implemented in Ltd, retaining a 3.75 per cent interest which is fully carried through 2002, detailed engineering on the phase III capacity upgrade was development and production of the field.
A gas sales agreement with largely completed during the period prior to sale.
At that time, Sui Southern Gas Company is under negotiation and expected to be offshore pre-works and module fabrication work had commenced concluded in 2004. on the upgrade to 400 mmscfd of DCQ sales of gas, and the Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2003 08 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued In July 2003, agreement was reached with operator Shell to farm-in Two new licences covering blocks 7B and 7C have also been awarded to acquire a 23.75 per cent interest in the deepwater exploration to Premier as operator and Occidental, targeting analogue plays to licence covering block 2365-1 offshore Indus E. A 3D seismic survey recent discoveries in Cote DIvoire.
Acquisition of new seismic has been undertaken to provide additional sub-surface information of commenced in February 2004 on this acreage, which could be ready this tertiary delta area.
The seismic data is currently being processed for drilling in mid 2005. and interpreted, and initial indications are encouraging.
In 2004, the joint venture will complete this work with the intention of defining a Gabon drilling programme.
In Gabon, the Phenix concession was converted into the Sasol operated Dussafu production sharing contract and a well is planned Indonesia by the operator for mid 2004.
Several prospects have been identified Two low cost exploration wells were drilled early in the year on the on the acreage and are being evaluated for follow-on drilling.
eastern Area IV part of block A. Kuda Nil-1 and Binturong-1 both encountered hydrocarbons, but in sub-commercial quantities with As part of our acquisition from Fusion, Premier will earn an 18 per cent poor quality reservoirs.
Elsewhere on the block, two structures have interest in the Iris Marin and Themis Marin shallow water production been identified for drilling in 2004, targeting the younger, high sharing contracts offshore Gabon, which have multiple pre-salt quality reservoirs that provide the existing production on the block.
targets on trend with our existing Dussafu acreage.
A well is planned Subject to partner approval, the wells will be drilled in the Anoa field on each of these production sharing contracts in 2004, with follow-on and Gajah Baru areas.
West Africa SADR In West Africa, Premier has continued to build its offshore exploration In the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic SADR, we have acquired and development portfolio.
The acquisition of the interests offshore the option to take a 35 per cent interest under a technical study Mauritania, Gabon and SADR from Fusion, announced in May 2003, agreement.
The acreage, which has considerable potential, is virtually represents a significant advance towards our objective of building a unexplored as it is currently under a dispute over sovereignty.
Recent material business in West Africa.
In Mauritania, Premier has bought developments toward the resolution of this dispute look encouraging.
Fusions interests in two deep-water production sharing contracts which include the Chinguetti and Banda discoveries.
India During 2003, formal approval was received from the government of Mauritania India for Premier to farm-in and take over operatorship of two blocks The Chinguetti field, estimated to contain approximately 120 million in North East India.
As a result we now have a 38 per cent working barrels of oil reserves, was successfully appraised by the Chinguetti-4-5 interest in block AAP-ON-94 1 Jaipur and an 84 per cent working well completed in November 2003.
The joint venture, operated by interest in block CR-ON-90 1 Cachar.
Woodside, declared the field commercial in January 2004 and is working towards a final investment decision and development goIn the Jaipur block in Upper Assam, 118km of new 2D seismic was ahead in 2004.
Our interest in Chinguetti and the associated acquired in dense jungle terrain.
The workforce engaged in this production sharing contract will increase to 9.23 per cent following numbered 620 people at its peak, and the work was successfully the recent approval of the field development plan by the joint venture.
concluded without any lost time incidents.
The interpretation of the seismic, when combined with geological data from nearby producing The Chinguetti-4-5 well was followed by three exploration wells, two fields, suggests that the prolific Assam shelf trend continues into our of which were successful oil discoveries at Tiof-1 and Tiof West-1, the block.
As a result two good prospects and a number of interesting latter encountering a 4m gas column overlying a 122m gross oil leads have been identified in the block.
A decision has been taken to column.
Further appraisal of this exciting discovery is planned as part spud our first exploration well in late 2004 and preparations are of a 2004 drilling programme of up to nine wells.
This programme is being made to construct the site and road.
currently being determined by the joint venture, with drilling anticipated to commence in the second half 2004.
The Cachar block in Southern Assam lies on trend with the proven gas province that exists adjacent in onshore Bangladesh.
Geological Guinea Bissau studies conducted during the year have confirmed the potential for Our Guinea Bissau acreage has been extensively re-evaluated and a large structural traps to exist below the surface anticlines.
Acquisition second well on the Sinapa prospect commenced in February 2004, of 118km of new 2D seismic is currently underway and the results will exploring the deep flank of a salt diapir.
The acreage held by Premier be used as key input data to our structural modelling of the block.
includes ten similar salt diapir structures giving significant follow-on Integration of this information with other geological studies could potential for exploration if the first well proves the play.
Such lead to drilling of an exploration well in early 2005. playmaker opportunities are an important requirement for Premiers new venture acquisitions.
In December 2003 we agreed a farm-out of 40 per cent equity in this acreage to Occidental Petroleum.
