co. uk United Kingdom UK UK Bus accounts for almost half of the Groups operating profit.
In 2003 it had 17,000 employees and over 6,000 vehicles.
Arriva runs 18.5 per cent of all buses in London and also serves customers in the North East, North West and South East of England, Yorkshire, the Midlands, Wales and Scotland.
UK Trains commenced the operation of the 15-year Wales and Borders franchise in December 2003 and will continue to operate the Northern franchise until October 2004.
We are committed to building our position in the UK rail sector.
Characteristics of the market UK Bus UK Trains The UK has two distinct bus markets: The UK rail industry was privatised in the regulated market in London, where the mid 1990s when the train operating operators contract to Transport for London, companies and rail network were separated.
and the deregulated market outside the The Strategic Rail Authority awards capital where most routes are determined by passenger franchises to train operating bus operators who are largely free to companies on behalf of the Government, operate routes and set fares.
Operating Review UK Bus Our UK Bus operations achieved an operating profit of 57.2 million before goodwill amortisation 2002: 65.4 million on a turnover of 604.0 million 2002: 559.8 million.
The result includes additional pension costs of 10 million following the triennial actuarial review conducted as of April 2003.
Excluding this, UK Bus would have achieved an improvement in operating profit of some 2 million.
The business continues to be a significant cash generator.
Arriva is the largest bus operator in London covering 18.5 per cent of the scheduled network.
Since 2000, we have invested over 110 million in the London market and we continue to benefit from the organic growth experienced in the capital.
In 2003, Arriva London raised its total number of drivers by 300 and increased the fleet to a total of 1,450 vehicles to meet extra demand and to improve service delivery.
The introduction of Quality Incentive Contracts QICs, linked to reliability targets, provides a real incentive for operators to improve services.
We anticipate that over half of our contract revenue in 2004 Bob Davies Chief Executive 10 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
Arriva is committed to looking ahead Fundamental repositioning of the business for better ways in which to reduce the impact Turnover on the environment and to be at the UK Bus forefront of these changes.
International Vehicle Rental Outside London, we are focusing on UK Trains increased marketing, the effective use of Discontinued operations technology, the development of partnerships with local authorities and improved customer service to take the business forward.
More people are being encouraged to travel by bus through our innovative marketing campaign, Going your way, and the introduction of 1998 2003 improved information on routes and timetables, including the use of our website.
Technological developments are improving will be under QICs, creating a significant growth forecast of nearly half a million service reliability and customer and employee opportunity to enhance revenue through residents by 2011.
Arriva is well positioned security.
Arrivas buses are being fitted with improved delivery to our customers.
to benefit from this extra demand and to GPS tracking equipment, enabling continue to grow its London business.
performance to be monitored and actively Transport for London TfL is forecasting an managed.
CCTV is also being extended increase of 11 per cent in passenger numbers Arriva London, in partnership with Lubrizol across the fleet.
Longer term, the and BP, led the way on a fuel trial to reduce outlook for the London market is buoyed by emissions of smoke, particulates and nitrous positive demographics, with a population Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 11 www.
co. uk The Netherlands Arriva operates 20 per cent of the regional bus services in the Netherlands, working as a contractor to local government.
It also owns NoordNed, a rail and bus operator.
It has a combined fleet of over 1,200 vehicles, 84 trains and 2,750 employees.
Characteristics of the market The Transport Act of 2001 stipulates that all bus transport must be tendered by 2007.
Operators bid for contracts on the basis of subsidy required to supplement passenger derived revenue.
Operating Review continued Arriva is committed to working in partnership UK Trains Arriva is committed to with local authorities to deliver sustainable UK Trains achieved an operating profit routes, modern infrastructure, accessible of 24.0 million 2002: 14.9 million working in partnership vehicles and improved reliability.
We have on a turnover of 433.3 million a number of these partnerships across the 2002: 419.0 million.
The increased with local authorities country, the best of which have resulted profitability primarily reflects improved to deliver sustainable in patronage and revenue growth of punctuality and reliability at both Arriva around 20 per cent.
Trains Northern and Merseyrail, together with routes, modern passenger growth at the Northern franchise.
As part of our drive for improvement, we Although our bid for the new Northern rail infrastructure, accessible commissioned NOP Research Group to carry franchise was not successful, we have out a customer satisfaction survey across achieved a substantial turnaround since we vehicles and improved our regional business.
The survey provides took over Arriva Trains Northern in 2000. information on 23 individual service features This culminated in the 2003 Excellence in reliability.
Whilst the results Passenger Transport award from the Institute indicated that 90 per cent of passengers were of Transport and Logistics.
We cease satisfied with the overall service they receive, operating the franchise in October 2004 with a very positive view of our customerand handed over the Merseyrail franchise facing employees, we plan to use the survey to its new operator in July 2003. to target those areas that will enable us to improve our service further and drive the business forward.
Future surveys will be carried out on an annual basis to drive progress.
12 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
co. uk Scandinavia Arriva is the largest provider of bus services in Denmark, operating almost half of Copenhagen buses and more than 30 per cent of regional services.
It also operates rail passenger services in Jutland and bus services in the south of Sweden, with a combined Scandinavian fleet of over 1,200 vehicles and 43 trains and a workforce of 3,800 employees.
Characteristics of the market Scandinavia is possibly the most liberalised European bus market outside the UK, introducing competitive tendering in the early 1990s, and now has a large proportion of the market operated by private sector operators.
The rail passenger market has also increasingly become open to competitive bids.
Arriva commenced operation of the new International at the end of the year, the contract to operate integrated franchise serving Wales and the Our International division, which represents services in the Groningen and Drenthe region, border counties on 7 December 2003.
This a quarter of the Groups turnover, made an routes which account for nearly half of our has a forecasted annual turnover of some operating profit of 24.8 million before bus operations in the north of the country.
200 million and establishes our long-term goodwill amortisation 2002: 19.0 million This new contract comes up for renewal at the position in UK rail.
It provides interurban, rural on a turnover of 424.9 million end of 2007 and has an option to continue and commuter passenger rail services 2002: 303.5 million.
This represents for another two years.
Arriva runs over 1,200 throughout Wales and the border counties a strong underlying performance with a full vehicles and 84 trains in the Netherlands.
with a network that stretches from Liverpool year contribution from the Portuguese and and Manchester through North and South Italian acquisitions that we made in 2002.
In Denmark, Arriva is already established as Wales to Bristol and Penzance.
the countrys largest bus operator.
We There were three major developments in our commenced the operation, in January 2003, We have a strong focus on customer Dutch business during the year.
In January of rail passenger services in Mid and North service and delivering results by working in 2003, we commenced operations outside Jutland on eight-year concessions, the first partnership with our employees and other our existing base in the north with two bus rail franchises to be awarded under new stakeholders.
These key strengths provide concessions in mid-Netherlands.
We took full us with a good base to develop our position control of NoordNed in December, the joint in UK rail.
venture that we had established with NS Rail in 1999.
We were also successful in retaining, We have a strong focus on customer service and delivering results by working in partnership with our employees and other stakeholders.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 13 www.
co. uk Iberia Arriva runs bus services in northern Portugal and owns TST, the leading bus service operator to the south of Lisbon, with a combined fleet of 900 vehicles and 1,750 employees.
In Spain, Arriva operates 300 buses in the northwest province of Galicia and in Mallorca.
Characteristics of the market The Spanish bus market is highly fragmented to bus operators.
Public transport in Lisbon outside the main cities, with long concessions and Oporto is to be controlled by new of up to 15 years mainly owned by small local metropolitan authorities established in operators.
There is no competitive tendering 2003.
This is expected to lead to but maximum fare levels are controlled by competitive tendering or privatisation.
The Portuguese market is similar with 10-year licences typically granted Operating Review continued legislation to privatise the Danish rail industry.
TST is the leading operator of scheduled bus During 2004, we will Initial transition issues were quickly resolved and coach services in the growing commuter and from April 2003 the franchise was the top region to the south of Lisbon.
Combined be introducing 29 new performing rail operator in Denmark, winning with our operation in the north of the country, bonuses under its contract for each of the last Arriva is one of Portugals largest bus operators.
Alstom Coradia Lint three quarters of 2003 for both customer In Lisbon and Oporto, local government trains.
These will satisfaction and reliability.
During 2004, we restructuring has devolved greater public will be introducing 29 new Alstom Coradia transport responsibilities to the cities and be fitted with a new Lint trains.
These will be fitted with a new we believe we are well placed to benefit generation of environmentally friendly from these changes.
generation of EURO III engines.
Vehicle Rental environmentally friendly We exercised our option in August 2003 Operating profit from Vehicle Rental to purchase the remaining 49 per cent increased by 10 per cent to 12.8 million, EURO III engines.
of Transportes Sul do Tejo TST from the before goodwill amortisation Barraqueiro Group in Portugal for 26 million, 2002: 11.6 million on total turnover having acquired a controlling interest of of 109.9 million 2002: 83.1 million.
With some Underlying rental income was up 6 per cent 1,250 employees and a fleet of 650 vehicles, at 51.6 million 2002: 48.7 million.
14 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
co. uk Italy Arriva entered the Italian market when it acquired SAB Autoservizi Srl in the Lombardy region in July 2002, the largest private sector bus operator in the country.
Arriva manages over 1,300 vehicles and 2,000 employees.
Characteristics of the market While most of the Italian bus and rail market is still in the public sector, competitive tendering for bus networks was introduced into some areas in 2003 and this will continue across the country.
The first steps towards rail tendering have been taken and further developments are expected in 2004.
The results demonstrate the focus applied by Bus and Coach We have an excellent mix of cash generative the business on achieving high utilisation of Bus and Coach achieved an operating profit and growth businesses.
With our clear its fleet and are an impressive achievement of 2.9 million, before goodwill amortisation strategy and strong balance sheet, we will during a year in which the business 2002: 3.5 million on turnover of continue to deliver value through organic completed its separation from Motor Retail.
This was growth combined with targeted acquisitions, This business has grown strongly in the last a good performance in what remains a whilst maintaining a progressive dividend four years to an average fleet size of around difficult market place.
Weakness in the policy and share buy-back programme.
UK tourism market continues to affect the business, which is maintaining its focus Vehicle Rental expanded its coverage in on matching resources to meet the needs September 2003 with the acquisition of of the market place.
Bob Davies Luton-based Wilton Vehicle Rental, adding Chief Executive around 230 vehicles to the fleet, our first Outlook acquisition in this market since 1998.
We have seen a positive start to 2004.
With the completion of the Groups repositioning, We are focused on growing the business we have reinforced our capacity to drive the organically whilst continuing to seek business forward in our chosen markets.
opportunities for acquisitions which extend the divisions coverage of the UK.
We have an excellent mix of cash generative and growth businesses.
With our clear strategy and strong balance sheet, we will continue to deliver value through organic growth combined with targeted acquisitions, whilst maintaining a progressive dividend policy and share buy-back programme.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 15
