Chairmans Statement: David Potter, Chairman The Group continued to consolidate its position satisfactorily during the year as economic conditions gradually improved.
Psion Teklogix performed well in a still depressed investment environment.
As expected, Symbian delivered rapid growth with licensee shipments rising to 6.7m units 2002 2.0m.
On 9 February 2004, Psion announced a conditional agreement to sell its shareholding in Symbian to Nokia.
If approved this will realise substantial value, reduce risk, simplify the Group and allow management to concentrate on our core mobile enterprise business.
Results Total turnover for the Group rose 7.7% to 141.5m 2002 131.4m.
Excluding Psions share of the Symbian joint venture, Group sales were 129.1m 2002 123.5m.
Group operating profits, before goodwill and exceptional items, on continuing business were 7.5m 2002 5.1m.
After exceptional items, losses on discontinued operations and Psions share of Symbians losses, Group losses before tax were 4.5m 2002 14.2m before amortisation of goodwill of 16.5m 2002 16.0m.
Losses on ordinary activities before taxation for the year were 21.0m 2002 30.2m.
The Group generated an operating cash inflow of 8.1m 2002 10.0m.
In October 2003, 17.5m was paid for an additional 5.8% stake in Symbian, leaving cash, net of overdrafts, at the end of the year of 17.4m 2002 30.1m.
Symbian During the year, Symbian made substantial progress in its market for wireless operating systems.
Licensee shipments rose to 6.7m units 2002 2.0m.
After operating expenses of 60m, losses after interest for the year were 30.5m 2002 39.2m.
Symbian has established itself as a leader in operating systems for the growing smartphone sector of the cellphone industry and the outlook in the short-term is for rapid growth.
Despite this strong performance, a number of factors have led the Board of Psion to conclude that it is right to realise value in Symbian now.
Over recent years there have been substantial changes in the structure of the wireless handset industry.
In October 2003, Motorola sold its shares in Symbian to Nokia and Psion other shareholders did not take up their pre-emption rights.
Nokia has emerged as Symbians largest shareholder and biggest customer.
These changes in the industry have introduced significant uncertainty into the prospect of achieving an IPO of Symbian.
The Board believes there is a growing divergence of interests between those shareholders who are customers of Symbian and those whose interest is financial, which could have an adverse effect on the value that might be achieved in the future.
After careful consideration of the position, your Board concluded that the realisation of value in Symbian now was in shareholders interests.
On 9 February 2004, Psion announced that it had reached a conditional agreement to sell its shareholding in Symbian for an estimated total consideration of 135.7m.
Details of the agreement, the background and reasons for the disposal were set out in a letter to shareholders posted on 23 February 2004.
An extraordinary general meeting is to be held on 12 March 2004 seeking approval of shareholders for the transaction.
Psion 2003 04 Chairmans Statement continued Psion Teklogix In a continuing tight market for IT capital spending, the sales of Psion Teklogix rose 4.5% to 129.1m 2002 123.5m.
For a global business operating in an environment of rapid and large currency changes between the United States, Europe and Asia, sales are inevitably affected by the reporting currency.
Relative to our key competitors, reporting in US Dollars, the performance of the company was good.
Gross profit margins increased and adjusted operating profits rose to 10.0m 2002 7.5m see note 2.
With a progressive recovery in the world economy and corporate IT investment, the directors believe that Psion Teklogix can look forward to a resumption of stronger growth and enhanced profitability.
Psion Teklogix has sales in more than 60 countries with offices in over 40.
It is able to provide a global sales, support and service function to the worlds leading companies.
It is an expert in mobile enterprise computing with local wireless access Wi-Fi particularly in application to logistics.
This expertise includes rugged mobile computers, local wireless networks and the software that integrates and connects to enterprise systems such as SAP or Oracle.
The company ranks second or third in most major markets across the world.
The IT automation of information and control in the distribution of goods and services is a major area of investment and of productivity growth in the developed world.
The Board of Psion believes that these characteristics provide an attractive growth opportunity.
It is the intention of the Board to invest in and expand on this opportunity as the core direction of Psion.
Board and Management On 30 June 2003, Ian McElroy retired as Chief Executive of the Group.
I would like to thank him for his good stewardship of Psion in that role.
On 1 September 2003, Alistair Crawford took up his appointment as Chief Executive.
Alistair has long experience in the software and computer industries with Computer Sciences, Oracle and most recently as Chief Executive of CMG before and during its merger with Logica.
I am confident of his outstanding skills in leading Psion into the future.
I am also delighted that Bill Jessup has taken up a permanent appointment as Financial Director of Psion.
Bill has extensive experience in this role both in the public quoted and private sectors.
After twenty-two years with Psion, Andy Clegg has retired from the Group and our Board.
During his career with Psion, Andy played a major role both as a brilliant engineer and in operational management.
Andy was the engineering father of the Organiser I and II and Series 3 families of products.
I would like to thank him on behalf of shareholders and his many friends in Psion for all that he has contributed.
Being mindful of the many changes that the Group has experienced over the last few years, I would like to thank all Psion personnel for their hard work and commitment to the Company.
Outlook The economic background to our activities appears to be improving steadily although the marked weakness of the US Dollar has affected our business, both directly and indirectly.
The extensive refreshing of our product range, the initiatives underway to extend sales coverage and the potential of additional investment into adjacent business areas give the Board reasons to be positive about the future performance of the Group.
The disposal of Psion Software, completed in February 2004, will enable annual costs of approximately 3.0m to be eliminated from the Groups profit and loss account.
The Board intends to review all investment opportunities carefully and will be prudent in its use of the Groups assets.
This process will take some time and, ultimately, there may well be surplus funds.
Alternative methods for any distribution will be examined on the basis of equity to all shareholders.
Resolutions permitting directors to authorise the buy-back of shares will be considered at the Annual General Meeting.
Assuming that the Symbian disposal is completed, the Board intends to resume the payment of dividends in the 2004 financial year.
