g R n i e n n a n g e a r l w e p i e n s m g s e e n y n t o i s u u e r r B u d e c o r p s b t y n u i o s a p l d p u r m A a r a o g c d r r n d r e o a n e t a f n 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc Strategic & Operational Review A year of strong achievements Our training programmes are monitored and Our strategy evaluated and we are pleased to say that Our ongoing strategy is, and always has been, to maximise the performance of every one some 85% of retailers who attended our of our 4,500 mainly freehold pubs, generating courses would recommend them to others, income streams from rent, from the sale of with 70% showing improved profitability beer, from the sale of other goods and following the training.
services and from gaming machines.
Internal training for BRMs has focused on This foundation is further enhanced through the shift of emphasis of the role and an ongoing acquisition programme and a familiarisation with skills and competencies highly efficient capital structure which is aligned to a more customer orientated designed to enhance shareholder returns.
This development has been supplemented by programmes designed Our strategy is delivered through the to maximise the full potential of the pub following areas.
and Planning for Growth a programme designed to enable BRMs to concentrate Our strategy is to maximise Recruitment on value-adding activity through better We believe we place more emphasis than our use of technology and personal the performance of every one peers on attracting the right operator for effectiveness techniques.
Some 40% of new of our 4,500 mainly freehold applicants to Punch are now being sourced Punch Retailer Charter through our website.
This complements pubs, generating income The Retailer Charter was developed by Punch the local networking conducted by our in conjunction with a number of our retailers.
streams from rent, from the Business Relationship Managers BRMs This comprehensive document is segmented and Acquisition Managers.
With over 1,500 sale of beer, from the sale of into eight easy-to-follow sections and registered applicants looking for pubs with is designed to assist our retailers in Punch, we are confident about our prospects other goods and services and understanding the responsibilities of both for continued lettings.
Punch and the retailer at certain key times in from gaming machines.
the life of our relationship including granting Training of the lease, rent reviews, investments and Following the successes of 2002 where the expiry of the lease.
Giles Thorley Company won three National Innkeeper Chief Executive Training Awards, our training programme has Customer service continued to go from strength to strength.
The The Retailer Charter is one of the new 716 retailers who have attended our training initiatives generated by the recently created programmes during the year have been able customer services department.
Headed up by to benefit from the constant widening of Punchs first Customer Services Director, the scope of our programmes.
These range from department is responsible for handling all the British Institute of Innkeeping accredited aspects of the retailer relationship.
Modern Licensed Retailer Course, designed for new entrants to the industry through to The department includes Frontline a onethe eX!
Factor Programme, a highly focused stop shop telephone helpline designed to marketing programme designed to enhance assist our retailers in all day-to-day enquiries retailer profitability.
such as credit, drinks deliveries and dispense, freeing up valuable time for our BRMs.
The Punch Retailer Charter The Punch Retailer Charter was designed to be easy to use and update, THE PUNCH offering retailers RETAILER information in CHARTER clear and straightforward terms.
s t s e g e e i i r r n c n e e i i u v g v y q r i l e e e p c S i p w v r A e s r e m o t s u C w I e n i s g t n v a h i e e n P l g s u i t r s n i u s n c A o h g y 5 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc The creation of a customer services department has encouraged the Company to reinforce the service and support message in all areas of the business.
HELPING OUR RETAILERS BUILD BETTER PUB BUSINESSES IMPROVING RETAILER SUPPORT Our Frontline team is trained to deal with all retailer enquiries and to ensure that they are carried through to resolution.
The first ever Punch awards have been a great success and have highlighted internally and externally the calibre of Punchs pubs and the skills of retailers.
40 forums Attended by over 260 retailers Communication is essential for good relations and the forums are just one of Punchs communications methods for working with retailers.
We have continued to focus on improving retailer support with three new initiatives providing the platform for our business relationship.
The Punch Retailer Charter is a single document designed to set out all major aspects of the retailer relationship and the way our commercial partnership works.
A series of retailer forums regional and national feedback meetings have been introduced on a quarterly basis giving over 260 retailers the opportunity to discuss with senior executives the key elements of our relationship.
And Punchs first awards scheme the Shine Awards attracted more than 350 pub nominations with entries being judged by the public through a national telephone and text vote, with call proceeds going towards Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Francis Patton Customer Services Director 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc This year we have focused on maximising the potential of every role in the Punch team to make us as effective and efficient as possible.
HELPING OUR RETAILERS BUILD BETTER PUB BUSINESSES VALUE THROUGH OUR PEOPLE Our central operations team provide support to our field based BRMs.
Internal changes have created more effective systems to allow Business Relationship Managers to focus on helping our retailers build better pub businesses.
Day-to-day administration previously dealt with by BRMs is now being handled by a newly created central operations support function, who regulate and filter work through to BRMs.
This gives effective coordination of field communication and workload planning and one central focal point between head office and operations, delivering a consistent quality service.
A separate commercial team is now focused on negotiating the best possible deals with suppliers.
Bill Walker Andrew Thompson Operations Director Operations Director 7 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc Strategic & Operational Review Continued They can then create any number of scenarios Cask or Real Ale remains one of the most Operations including altering product prices or changing potent symbols of the British pub.
Our Following the successful completion last year suppliers and see what the potential commitment to cask ales within the estate of the integration of the leased and tenanted outcome on profits would be.
The Company sold 128 businesses under one operations infrastructure, different cask ales during the year, a total we took the opportunity to strengthen the Machines volume of 145,045 barrels.
Included in this regional teams by centralising administration With the continued extension of the Growth were 55 ales supplied as part of our rotating which, coupled with Frontline, allowed the Lease throughout the estate, the number of Finest Cask scheme.
In total over the last year role of the regional operations staff to change.
pubs where we supply the gaming machines our cask ales have been sourced from 48 This resulted in the creation of a new role has now increased to 51% of the estate.
called Business Relationship Manager BRM.
This is a growth of 24% over last year and The BRMs responsibilities are to focus on has resulted in a continued growth of machine Non-beer providing direct support and advice to our income of 33%.
We have also located 135 Although the growth in the market for retailers and they have the autonomy to make ATM machines across our estate, generating flavoured alcoholic beverages has begun to key decisions about the future of the outlet.
an excellent 50% return on investment and slow, the long period of warm weather in the helping our retailers to grow their trade.
summer resulted in strong performance for BRMs also have better business planning cider.
Wines and spirits sales continue to grow tools due to a significant investment in new Beer in part due to the extensive range of wines computer software.
Punch continues to work closely with its available through our Connect to Wine suppliers to ensure we make available to brochure.
The Company has also recruited The tailor-made system starts by building up our retailers an excellent range of beers.
nine Sales and Marketing Executives SMEs a detailed picture of how a pub is performing.
to develop non tied and new income streams Working with the retailer, the BRM inputs During the year we successfully renegotiated and to relaunch investments and allocate data on the pub itself, its customer base, our supply contracts with Coors and Interbrew promotions.
competitors and current sales and and this has had the result of consolidating performance figures.
the positions of Carling and Stella Artois as Through our Buying Power brochure, which the No.
1 standard lager and premium lager includes deals on Walkers Crisps, cigarette respectively in our estate.
Both supply machines and Woodward Foodservice, contracts resulted in improved margins overall.
retailers have enjoyed significant savings.
Adrian Fawcett right joined Punch in August 2003 as Chief Operating Officer, responsible for all 4,500 pubs, operations and Punchs ongoing business.
8 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc Strategic & Operational Review Continued conducted by the Investment Manager and The Punch Growth Lease the Estates Manager.
It is the responsibility of The Company renewed 192 leases following the Regional Estates Executive to ensure that the expiry of old agreements, 174 chose to each of the properties in their region is renew early, and converted onto our Growth maximising its potential and, where necessary, Lease, while 292 rent reviews were agreed to execute investment programmes efficiently.
with an average uplift of 14%.
From some 800 This years investments are currently Growth Leases in place this time last year, the generating pre-tax returns of over 29% with Punch Growth Lease has now extended to around 41% of the return achieved being 1,348 and is now our biggest single lease received in rent, with the balance being agreement.
Not satisfied to rest there, we are received through income from additional sales already working on a further enhancement to of beer, non-beer and machines.
Last years the Growth Lease, converting it into a plain investments are continuing to perform well English agreement in a modular format to and on average are generating further returns help our retailers properly understand the of over 30%.
implications and to minimise costs.
Acquisitions Estate development The 283 pubs purchased in the year were Our efforts to improve the calibre of our made up of the 61 Conquest Inns Ltd pubs retailers through our recruitment and training and packages from: Spirit Group 34 pubs, programmes, together with the benefits Honeycombe Leisure 12 pubs, Greene King provided by the Growth Lease and our 37 pubs, and Western Castle 12 pubs.
support services is complemented by the The balance of 127 pubs have been sourced significant estate development programme.
throughout the country by our team of In the year to 23 August 2003 the Company Acquisitions Managers.
committed some 33m to specific joint development schemes encompassing a total of 539 pubs.
Estate development is an important limb of our organic growth programme and we have therefore continued to improve and speed-up Giles Thorley the process of evaluating and executing Chief Executive investment schemes.
We have created a new role in the Company, Regional Estates Executive, that incorporates many of the roles Formerly the Halfway House, the recently created Epic Bar and Brasserie now trades within the premium dining sector.
9 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Punch Taverns plc Alongside our retailers our pubs are our biggest asset and it is vital that we maximise their potential.
HELPING OUR RETAILERS BUILD BETTER PUB BUSINESSES MANAGING OUR PORTFOLIO The Compasses Inn, Shrewsbury, was purchased in January 2003.
A mid market local with a strong community following.
Our portfolio of more than 4,500 pubs create revenue streams from rent and through the sale of beer.
It is key to future growth that we protect, maintain and grow these revenue streams through investment in our pubs.
The 539 joint development schemes completed during the year range from top to bottom structural refurbishments costing 1m plus to sparkles, small investments from 10,000 upwards.
All investments are developed in partnership with the retailer and Development Managers, who manage the process from start to finish.
New profit and rental streams are being developed through our acquisitions programme and the quality of our estate is maintained by the churn of under performing outlets which are disposed of.
Deborah Kemp Property and Development Director
