Operating review RAC Consumer Services RAC Consumer Services provides a comprehensive range BSM, the UKs largest driving tuition school, had another good of motoring services to motorists, including breakdown cover, year in 2003.
Revenues grew 12% to 31.8 million, the third replacement windscreens, driving tuition, legal support, travel consecutive year of double digit growth, and more instructors services, insurance and car loans.
This division has grown taught more pupils than ever before.
The business continued strongly over recent years, and now accounts for over half to innovate, for example with the increasing use of driving of total operating profit.
simulators to keep initial costs down for students and with the use of on-line training for the theory and hazard perception 2003 saw further good progress from continuing operations, tests.
A constant challenge is to retain the best instructors.
with revenues up 7% to 353.1 million 2002 330.1 million A number of initiatives were introduced to improve instructor and profits up 19% to 51.3m 2002 43.2 million.
The retention, including upgrading the BSM eet to larger, more Roadside business had another strong year.
memberships increased by 4%, and revenues were up 9% at 198.7 million.
We maintained a strong renewal rate, with 83% The Groups legal practice, RAC Legal Services, continued of our members renewing.
Through innovation, we continued to grow strongly, with revenues up 27% to 10.3 million and to deliver improved services to our members in 2003.
With the increase in the case load, work in despatching system introduced in 2002 has proved highly progress doubled covering some 4,300 cases at year end.
effective in improving the efficiency of our patrols both in Policy holders grew by 18% to 2.1 million, further increasing deploying them more quickly and in helping us to diagnose our share of the motor legal expenses market.
Following the more accurately the particular fault being experienced by success of the accident care scheme trialled with Avon and the member.
We also developed and introduced a new rapid Somerset Constabulary in 2002, we are now in partnership deployment trailer.
Carried in the back of the patrol van, this with 13 police forces offering this innovative service to victims device is easily deployed to tow vehicles that cannot be of road trafc accidents.
repaired at the roadside, minimising the need for additional vehicles to attend and therefore speeding up our members RAC Financial Services continued to grow strongly from recovery time.
These innovations, combined with an 11% a small base, and revenues were up 28% to 3.2 million.
increase in our patrol force to 1,500 at the end of the year, RAC Insure, our new broker panel business, overcame the resulted in record levels of customer service delivery.
We were operational difficulties experienced in the first half of the year innovative in the development of new products too, with the and is making steady progress.
This service, backed by the launch of RAC Solutions mid-year.
This range of products UKs leading car insurers, offers members and other customers includes a no-claims discount for members who do not call us a simple route to competitive car insurance.
Our loans business out and to help them avoid breakdowns a comprehensive grew in the year, and we launched an RAC credit card.
We see annual vehicle inspection, which has been extremely well significant opportunities for growth in financial services, using received.
320,000 members transferred to the new products the trusted attributes of the RAC brand to assure customers in the first six months following launch.
of good value, and we are reinforcing the management of the business to accelerate the pace of expansion.
14 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 RAC Auto Windscreens had a challenging year in 2003 and, Alongside the launch of the RAC Solutions products mid year, despite a marginal increase in sales 0.9% to 96.9 million, we refreshed our brand advertising with the introduction of the profits were down 15%.
We made significant changes to the distinctive helping hand and the strapline Always there.
The senior management team in the early part of the year.
The new new treatment has been well received, with a measurable team dealt well with a supplier recall later in the year, caused improvement in consumer response to the brand.
by a faulty batch of adhesive, and approximately 9,000 windscreens were retted, with a minimum of inconvenience The growth of the business, particularly motoring services, to customers.
There are a number of business improvement resulted in increasing pressure on space in our facility at Bradley programmes underway, but it will take time for these to take Stoke in Bristol.
Late in 2003 we agreed terms to lease an effect and trading remains challenging.
additional 500 seat facility nearby, which will come on stream in the spring of 2004.
The annual cost of 1.8 million is a natural A significant achievement in Consumer Services in 2003 was consequence of the continuing growth of the business.
the cutover to our new customer relationship management system in the final quarter.
This operation was successful, despite its complexity, and was the culmination of three years effort.
The new platform will enable us to understand and interact with our members with much greater insight.
We are confident that the benets we will derive over the coming years will justify the investment made.
The new database provides greater visibility on our business than ever before, and as a result we have marginally adjusted previously reported membership and customer penetration gures.
Our membership grew 4% to 2.19 million 2002 restated 2.11 million and the number of customers buying more than one product rose to 13% 2002 restated 11%.
RAC Consumer Services continuing operations 353.1 51.3 330.1 43.2 2002 2003 2002 2003 Turnover m profit m RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 15 Operating review Business Services The continuing operations of Business Services grew RAC Business Solutions further, with revenues increasing by 6% to 1,112.9 million RAC Business Solutions sells motoring and related vehicle 2002 1,053.8 million and profits up by 8% to 50.8 million services to businesses, including breakdown assistance, 2002 46.9 million.
accident management, insurance claims processing, vehicle inspections and customer contact centres.
Revenues grew We aim to broaden our relationships with major corporate 10% to 160.8 million 2002 146.3 million and profits by customers, using the full range of the Groups capabilities.
Our target sectors are defence, insurance, vehicle and truck manufacturers, utilities and airside vehicles.
2003 saw important Following further success in tenders in 2003, this division now contract wins in three of these sectors and the long term nature provides breakdown assistance for 41% of all new cars sold in of these contracts has improved the quality of our earnings.
the UK including Ford, Audi, Toyota, Nissan, Peugeot, Citroen and Kia.
The division also provides breakdown services to six During the year we took on the management of the British of the top ten contract hire eet operators in the UK, often Airways eet of specialist airside vehicles, such as the tugs combining this with accident management.
In the insurance that move aircraft, and crew buses.
This is a 10 year contract market RAC Business Solutions manages motor claims on with lifetime revenues of 230 million, involving 6,300 vehicles, behalf of a number of companies including Norwich Union with service provided through Lex Transeet, supported by and NFU Mutual.
Lex Auto Logistics and Lex Commercials.
In December, we announced that we had been successful in our bid to take Lex Vehicle Leasing on the contract hire services of Ford Financial in the UK, Our half share of profit from Lex Vehicle Leasing, a joint with a seven year term.
The contract deepens our existing venture with HBOS, grew 12% to 19.6 million on revenue relationship with Ford, for whom we provide breakdown up 5% to 207.2 million.
The eet under contract increased assistance as part of their new car warranties.
Initially we will from 95,700 to 105,400, making the company the largest in take on some 20,000 vehicles through Lex Vehicle Leasing, its sector to have grown purely organically.
our joint venture with HBOS, and have responsibility for all new contract hire business sold through the network of Ford, The quality of its services was recognised with further Fleet Volvo, Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin dealerships.
Also Excellence awards, this time including Best Contract Hire in December, we were pleased to be confirmed, in partnership Company and Best Service Supplier.
New customers included with Amey, as preferred bidder for the 500 million, 15 year Siemens, Honda, Marconi, TRW, Goodrich and Wyko.
Ministry of Defence C Vehicle contract to supply and maintain the eet of construction vehicles, plant equipment and rough In a better year for the used car market, disposal losses of terrain mechanical handling equipment operated by the British 6.2 million RAC share were lower than anticipated and of armed forces worldwide.
The contract is expected to be the 45 million provision our share created at the end of awarded by October 2004, leading to full service provision 2000, 16.3 million remains.
We have carried out an by April 2006.
This will extend our relationship with the impairment test on the existing eet as required by FRS 11 Ministry of Defence, for whom we are the largest vehicle which confirms that this amount is sufficient to meet potential services provider.
We continue to take a cautious view of the used car market in pricing our contracts.
16 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Manufacturer Support Services Lex Industrial Solutions Revenues in this division grew 3% in 2003, to 627.9 million The decision was taken to seek to exit our mechanical 2002 606.7 million, whilst profits were at at 31.2 million handling operations, and we also announced the closure of the 2002 31.6 million.
Managed Services arm of Industrial Solutions.
The exceptional costs associated with these processes are described in the Lex Auto Logistics, our inventory management operation, Financial Review.
faced a challenging year dealing with the implications of the non-renewal, previously reported, of its contract to supply The remaining business within this division is Lex Transeet, DAF parts.
This contract expired in June 2003, resulting in a the commercial vehicle contract hire, vehicle rental and eet year on year profits decline from this source of approximately management business which is jointly owned by RAC and 4 million.
However, the shortfall was made up in part by an Lombard, a part of the Royal Bank of Scotland group.
increase to 11.8 million 2002 8.4 million in the additional Revenues improved by 21% on a continuing basis, with strong profits arising from the related contract to distribute Leyland performances from eet management which grew from 17,500 parts which is anticipated to continue, with declining profitability, trucks to over 21,000, and with the take-on of the British until at least 2005.
The business took steps to position itself Airways Ground Fleet Services contract.
for the future, growing its distribution of parts to Norwich Unions accident repair network and, subsequent to the year end, moving into a dedicated warehousing facility in the Midlands to support this new business.
Hyundai, our car importership, had a successful year, growing market share in a record new car market to 1.3% and recording 32,238 registrations, up 10%.
The model range is increasingly strong the Getz traded well as a result of being the What Car?
Budget Car of the Year for 2003 and other models such as Matrix, Trajet and Santa Fe benefited from the unique five year warranty now offered on all new Hyundai cars.
Lex Commercials, our truck dealership network, had a good year, growing profits despite revenues being at at 158.6 million.
The business supported a number of Group companies in the delivery of complex bids.
Isuzu Truck was recognised as being non-core for RAC, and we are well advanced in our negotiations to sell this small importership business to its management.
Business Services continuing operations 1,112.9 50.8 1,053.8 46.9 2002 2003 2002 2003 Turnover m profit m RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 17
