qxd 5 4 04 5:16 pm Page 2 Regus Group now finds itself in a significantly better position than at any time in the past two years.
qxd 5 4 04 5:16 pm Page 3 Chairmans statement We are committed to delivering sustainable profits.
Regus Group made strong progress In the year to 31 December 2003, in 2003.
There was a marked Group revenues excluding the UK improvement in trading in the fourth business were 256.6 million quarter - after tough conditions 2002: 266.5 million, EBITDA Earnings in the early part of the year.
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation before exceptionals was Going into 2004, trading has continued 3.8 million 2002: loss of 22.9 million to improve.
Enquiry levels rose 28 per and EBIT loss was 24.8 million 2002: cent in January and February compared loss of 129.4 million.
On an underlying with the same period of 2003.
Prices basis, before exceptional and nonfor new workstation sales and renewals trading items, we saw losses decreasing were up 6.1 per cent on the average steadily over the course of the year.
John Matthews for the fourth quarter of 2003.
Revenues Chairman in February were up 5.4 per cent on During 2003, Regus Group re-organised Regus Group plc January and we expect further growth its US business.
which involved use of Chapter 11 creditor protection - was completed As a result, Regus Group now finds in less than 12 months.
As a result itself in a significantly better position of these efforts, the Groups overall than at any time in the past two years.
fixed costs as well as its variable The Group moved closer to profitability costs are now under strict control.
in 2003 and is now benefiting from The US is a key market for the Group rising global occupancy, a strengthened and there are clear signs that market balance sheet, minimal debt and conditions are improving.
Mark Dixon, a record forward order book.
our Chief Executive, has relocated to the US to oversee future In terms of 2003 business performance, developments in this key market.
the Groups corporate outsourcing teams performed particularly well during The Group strengthened its financial And finally I would like to record the year.
The number of government position after it raised 54.8 million our gratitude to Stephen Stamp, who and public sector contracts increased.
through a fully subscribed rights issue resigned as Group Finance Director Unilever, Black & Decker, Dell, ABN in December 2003.
At the same time, in October, having played a major part in Amro, and Citigroup were just a few as part of its re-organisation in the US, the re-organisation of our business.
of the major global brands that signed a new holding company for the Group, up with Regus during the period.
Regus Group plc, was formally admitted In summary, Regus is well placed Such business is clearly part of a to trading on the London Stock to benefit from the improved trading growing trend among corporates to Exchange.
conditions that we are now beginning outsource their property requirements.
2004 has started encouragingly, I must acknowledge the dedication benefiting from rising occupancy and The Groups meeting room business and hard work of our staff around demand.
Our objective during the year is also saw impressive growth and this the world.
They have been a great to drive revenue growth, with a particular was best illustrated by the landmark asset to Regus and we are proud focus on the corporate outsourcing deal closed with IBM to provide their of their commitment.
With costs firmly under control, people with meeting rooms across be possible without them.
I should we are committed to delivering 15 European countries.
also like to thank our shareholders sustainable profits.
for their loyalty and patience.
