22 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Review of Operations Miller Brewing Company, Milwaukee plant North America weather, resulting in industry volumes being level with 2003 those of the prior year.
Total Miller volume, after adjusting Financial summary US$m for a distributor stock reduction programme implemented Turnover 3,473 in March, was down 3.7% with domestic volume falling by EBITA 250 4.5% 6.2% before adjustment.
Certain of Millers core EBITA margin % 7.2 brands have been losing market share for a number of Sales volume hls 000s years.
However, the rate of decline increased over the Lager excluding contract brewing 33,852 past year and we believe this to be due to a combination contract brewing 8,172 of factors including loss of management focus on core CSDs 55 brands following the introduction of four FMBs and some Nine months.
understandable disruption during the transaction and Before exceptional items being integration costs of US$17 million and Tumwater brewery closure costs of US$35 million.
Contract brewing volumes grew 3.6% and international volumes grew by 6.6%.
We acquired Miller Brewing Company in July 2002, giving EBITA, for the nine month period, of US$250 million, the group access, through a national player, to a growing before exceptional items of US$52 million, reects the beer market with the worlds largest profit pool, and at the impact of the volume decline, as well as negative brand, same time diversifying the currency and geographic risk of pack and geographic mix, increased cost of raw materials the group.
and greater energy costs, partly offset by higher selling Since acquisition, we have commenced the prices.
There were also a number of significant one-time integration of Miller into the group, and we have made restructuring charges including costs associated with the some important changes to the management team.
uplift and write-off of excess production of the FMB Norman Adami, previously chief executive of our highly brands, Sauza Diablo and Stolichnaya Citrona, and the successful Beer South Africa business, was appointed as reduction of four and one half days of inventory held in president and chief executive in February 2003.
Whilst a distributor warehouses, which together amount to US$40 number of tactical initiatives have been implemented in million.
A further US$16 million of FMB launch costs, as the period under review, we are focused on developing reported in our interim results, were also expensed during our longer term strategy and action plans to deliver value.
Before taking account of the exceptional and In the nine month reporting period, US beer industry other costs referred to above, EBITA for the nine month volumes were affected by low consumer confidence, period was US$306 million.
a lacklustre economy, recent world events, and poor SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 23 Far left Miller Lite consumers Left Miller delivery in the downtown Chicago area A number of tactical initiatives have been implemented Much work is being undertaken on rebuilding in respect of Miller Lite and Miller Genuine Draft MGD.
the Miller brands and reshaping the portfolio.
We will New packaging for Miller Lite was introduced at the reposition the Miller trademark based upon extensive beginning of this year and recent advertising has attracted in-depth consumer research and mapping, with the first considerable consumer attention, particularly with the elements of the new architecture becoming visible in 21-28 year old target audience.
This increase in brand autumn 2003.
We will, during the next 18 months, visibility will be followed up with a clear repositioning of also be implementing initiatives to strengthen sales and the brand itself in the autumn of 2003.
Supporting these distribution based upon our experience in other parts of brand initiatives is the high quality of the Miller Lite the SABMiller group.
These initiatives include prioritisation product which has been recognised and is evidenced by of local markets, improved channel management, Miller Lite winning its third gold medal at the 2002 World strengthening and reorganising our sales force and Beer Cup.
Miller High Life enjoyed modest volume gains, improved management of distributors.
continuing the 2% per annum growth trend established It will take time for the benets of the brand with the 1998 brand repositioning.
Award winning repositioning and sales and distribution initiatives advertising, innovative packaging initiatives and a recent to become evident.
However, we have identied low calorie brand extension have contributed to the opportunities to reduce costs over and above those success of this brand.
We will continue to invest behind included in the US$50 million of synergies described this brand, building on our achievements to date.
at the time of the acquisition.
Importantly, we are also Skyy Blue has become the fourth largest spirits upgrading the performance management systems across branded FMB in the US with volumes totalling over the organisation and will be taking appropriate actions to 500,000 hls since its introduction in April 2002.
We implement a productivity and cost reduction programme.
continue to view the FMB segment of the market as Miller profitability will be impacted over the next two to offering value and will invest appropriately behind our three years by the current volume declines, adverse mix brands.
effects and the ongoing restructuring and reorganisation Exports and international sales of Miller brands, led necessary to establish our platform for growth, although by MGD, continue to provide volume growth and stable we are confident that our efforts will deliver shareholder income.
We expect to achieve further growth in this area value in the medium term.
For the current financial year, through leveraging the distribution network across the we expect that EBITA, pre exceptional and before SABMiller group during the current year.
restructuring and reorganisation costs, will be trending lower than comparable previous periods.
24 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Review of Operations continued Near right Bottling line, Industrias La Constancia, El Salvador Far right Pilsener beer canning line, Industrias La Constancia, El Salvador Central America Honduras achieved a 4.4% growth the first time that 2003 2002 growth has been achieved in four years, but there was a Financial summary US$m US$m 6.5% decline in El Salvador.
Water volumes in El Salvador Turnover 514 186 were up 1%.
EBITA 56 22 Sales declines have depressed the reported EBITA EBITA margin % 10.8 11.9 performance and reduced operating margins.
However, the year has been one of major structural change.
The Sales volumes hls 000s restructuring of our Central American businesses has Lager 1,747 624 proceeded well.
In each country we have merged the CSDs 6,257 2,231 sales and distribution functions for beer and CSDs.
We Other beverages 2,499 824 have rationalised packaging assets in the businesses and Four months.
closed certain production and distribution sites.
Across Before exceptional items being reorganisation costs of US$12 million in 2003. the region we have merged our back ofce operations and integrated our financial systems.
This has resulted The current year represents the first full year of the in significant headcount reduction in both countries groups ownership of its Central American investments.
operations and will lead to substantial savings in future The period under review was characterised by weak financial years.
The El Salvadorian companies have been economic performance in both El Salvador and Honduras merged and we expect to do the same in Honduras in and strong competitive pressures in the CSD market, the current year.
Major structural changes, aimed The strategy is to continue the conversion of the at establishing a foundation for future growth, have been company into a marketing focussed enterprise with a actioned in both of our businesses.
strong portfolio of relevant brands.
A number of brand Against this broad background, CSD volumes were and packaging changes are planned, and these should down in both El Salvador and Honduras, registering a support improved performance in the market place.
6.9% decline in total versus the comparable prior year.
In Initiatives are also in place to improve production particular, El Salvador endured the entry of an aggressive efficiencies with the roll-out of the World Class Manufacturing CSD competitor, which has effectively led to a short-term initiative, continued rationalisation of surplus facilities and and, we believe, unsustainable reduction in prices.
Lager ongoing sales and distribution integration.
volumes fared better, and were at on a pro forma basis.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 25 Far left Consumers in Plzen, Czech Republic Left Brewery warehouse, Poznan, Poland Europe In the Czech Republic, the Pilsner Urquell group 2003 2002 exceeded expectations.
The overall market declined, as Financial summary US$m US$m % change anticipated, by around 1% this past year.
However, we Turnover 1,646 1,280 29 saw volumes grow by 4%, signalling good market share EBITA 275 198 39 gains.
In particular, the premium Pilsner Urquell brand EBITA margin % 16.7 15.5 grew by some 12%, assisting margin expansion.
Local management is to be commended on rapid reaction to, Sales volumes hls 000s and recovery from, the devastating oods in August.
Lager 24,472 22,359 9 Our international premium brand Pilsner Urquell Lager comparable 24,240 22,359 8 continues to perform well in the key export markets of the Other beverages 137 178 23 USA, Germany, and the United Kingdom.
Sales volumes Before exceptional items of US$8 million.
in these markets are encouraging, with volumes up 13%, 17% and 60% respectively on the prior year.
In total, volumes of Pilsner Urquell outside the Czech Republic The division enjoyed another excellent year of profit have increased by 17% to 653,000 hls.
The stand-alone growth with EBITA up 39%.
Lager comparable volumes Pilsner Urquell business in the USA was integrated with grew 8% assisted by good summer weather in our two key the Miller Brewing Company operations shortly after the markets of Poland and the Czech Republic.
Productivity financial year end and this will provide a strong platform measured in hectolitres per person per annum improved for the future potential of the brand in this market.
by 12% and contributed to the 120 point expansion In Russia, industry volumes were up some 9% for in EBITA margin.
Currencies in central Europe have the year and SABMiller enjoyed a sharp recovery in the strengthened against the US dollar, and this has second half to end the year with 27% growth.
This contributed to the improvement in reported results.
followed the introduction of cans, a new brand Tri Growth in the Polish beer market was 5% for the Bogatyrya launched into the growing mainstream twelve months to March 2003.
Kompania Piwowarska KP segment, and the newly licensed production of Kozel from outperformed the industry with a volume increase of 10%, our Czech brand portfolio.
MGD, Holsten and Pilsner reaching 32% market share.
A new brand Debowe, Urquell volumes all more than doubled and our share competing in the strong beer segment, had a highly of the Russian premium segment is now over 10%.
successful launch capturing over 20% of that segment Expansion to 3.5 million hectolitres at the Kaluga brewery within nine months.
Recently, we announced the is virtually complete and well within budget.
acquisition of Browar Dojlidy Sp.
In Hungary, general price stability continued, assisting This acquisition was completed on 30 April 2003, after overall industry profitability.
Our Dreher subsidiarys securing all regulatory approvals and provides us with an volumes were up 5% against the industrys 3% and profits economy brand in the mainstream segment, adding a third and cash ow surged during the year.
Romanias beer production facility and improving KPs representation in the market continues to disappoint with virtually stagnant east of the country.
26 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Review of Operations continued Near right Tyskie canning line, Poland Far right Customers, Arusha, Tanzania volumes.
However, SABMillers volumes grew organically Africa by 12% and this, together with ongoing synergy Africa performed exceptionally well in the year under developments from the prior years Timisoreana review with the momentum reported at the half year acquisition, boosted Romanias profitability albeit carrying through to the year-end.
The region benefited off a small base.
Slovakia continues to benefit from from strong volume growth in key markets, market share management and marketing integration with the Pilsner gains in our competitive markets and successful Urquell group.
Volumes were up 14% and our market acquisition activity in a number of countries.
The Canary Islands have suffered from Clear beer growth of 3.2% in our African businesses the decline in global tourism and the beer industry lost was achieved with strong performances from Tanzania, ground this past year: volumes were down by 3% though Mozambique and Ghana.
Tanzania experienced a good profits improved slightly.
agricultural harvest, beer market growth and additional Within Central and Eastern Europe, consolidation of volume from the restructuring of our East African the brewing industry continues.
SABMiller expects to operations: whilst Mozambique benefited from the maintain a leading position in the region, and to continue Laurentina acquisition.
Ghana enjoyed strong market competing effectively.
Our soft drink volumes grew by 15.3% as a result of the inclusion of Zambia Bottlers following the February 2002 acquisitions and an outstanding Africa & Asia performance from Angola, where we exceeded the one 2003 2002 million hectolitre mark and achieved organic growth of Financial summary US$m US$m % change 41.2% following the end of the civil war and an improving Turnover 1,209 946 28 economy.
Traditional beer, however, ended below prior EBITA 233 171 36 levels following the decision to exit the low margin bulk EBITA margin % 19.2 18.1 beer segment in Zambia.
The introduction of VAT in Botswana, which resulted Sales volumes hls 000s in across the board consumer price increases, curbed the Lager 31,332 23,141 35 strong sales momentum enjoyed in prior years.
US dollar Lager comparable 23,686 22,797 4 weakness assisted reported results in Botswana, Lesotho CSDs 4,206 3,648 15 and Swaziland but did not impact other African currencies Other beverages 9,920 10,204 3 to the same extent.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 27 Far left Kgalagadi Brewery, Gabarone, Botswana Left Serving Snowake lager in Wuhan, China Our SABMiller pan-African premium brands, Castle Lager Asia and Castle Milk Stout, grew 17% in total over prior year.
Within Asia, our Chinese joint venture performed well Other key market initiatives included the successful launch with a key area of achievement being the successful of Eagle Lager in Uganda, an innovative sorghum based integration of the Wuhan and Blue Sword acquisitions.
clear beer aimed at the low-income segment of the Volumes reached the 24 million hls mark for clear beer market.
The product has been well received and aided and total volumes exceeded 27 million hls.
The Chinese market share growth in this competitive environment.
beer market is now estimated to be the biggest in the Throughout the region, the momentum in terms of unit world by volume.
The roll-out of the Snowake brand cost reduction was maintained via the combined effect of throughout our 30 Chinese breweries continues, with the application of our Manufacturing Excellence the brand achieving volumes in excess of five million hls Programme as well as purchasing, logistics and working during the year.
capital savings delivered by Sabex, our JohannesburgOrganic volume growth for the year of 5.7% was based procurement subsidiary.
achieved against total volume growth of 45.3%.
EBITA Associate volumes and earnings include Zimbabwe, growth in China more than doubled year on year.
which held up reasonably well despite experiencing In India we achieved our target of break even at difficult political and economic conditions, and earnings the operating profit level in our first full year with the include our newly acquired stake in Kenya Breweries with expanded base of four operating units, including the effect from December 2002. acquisition of the Rochees brewery in Rajastan which was The Castel group, in which we have a 20% interest, nally completed towards the end of the period.
During posted strong results with clear beer and soft drink the year we launched Castle Lager in Mumbai, Bangalore volume growth of 10.9% and 19.2% respectively.
and Delhi with encouraging early signs.
Operational benets have been achieved by both On 21 May 2003, we announced that SABMillers groups from the relationship, including areas such as subsidiary, Mysore Breweries, had become a strong procurement.
We have recently entered Algeria with a number two brewer in India through a joint venture with joint investment in soft drinks, to be supplemented with the Shaw Wallace group of companies.
This positions us brewing in the short term and we continue to evaluate well in the high growth Indian beer market.
28 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Review of Operations continued Near right Ibhayi Brewery, Port Elizabeth, South Africa Far right Cricket sponsorship in South Africa Beer South Africa Castle was a major sponsor of the recent Cricket World 2003 2002 Cup tournament held in South Africa.
This event provided Financial summary US$m US$m % change an excellent opportunity to support the brand with a new Turnover 1,270 1,112 14 advertising campaign and promotional activity.
EBITA 338 287 18 The premium light market segment reected double EBITA margin % 26.6 25.8 digit growth.
Two of SABMillers international brands, Sales volumes hls 000s 24,428 24,426 1 Pilsner Urquell and Miller Genuine Draft, will be added to this segment to broaden the local portfolio during the Volumes grew by 0.8%, despite the continuing tough early part of the current financial year.
This follows trading conditions and the period under review not agreement between SAB Ltd and Heineken NV that their benefiting from the inclusion of Easter.
Positive growth in joint venture in South Africa to brew and distribute the the second half of the year, particularly over the important Heineken brand would end.
The existing arrangement for peak season, was driven by favourable weather the brewing and distribution of the Amstel brand through conditions and the diminishing surplus in the wine lake.
the SAB Ltd network remains unchanged.
Beer price increases at the retail level were lower than for Revised Liquor Bill legislation is expected to be other liquor types, with evidence of some volume ow nalised in 2003.
Assurances from the relevant back to beer.
government department regarding the retention by Operating performance, particularly relating to manufacturers of their depots, and their ability to deliver efficiencies and reliability, is at record levels.
Operating direct to retailers, have again been confirmed as margins are up 80 basis points to 26.6%, notwithstanding remaining intact.
the continued focus on cost productivity being offset somewhat by significant increases in raw material prices.
Continued focus on operating performance and asset Other Beverage Interests 2003 2002 management boosted EVA growth to a creditable 19% Financial summary US$m US$m % change on a five year compounded basis while working capital Turnover 788 676 17 reected improvement for the eighth consecutive year.
ABI 594 500 19 Marketing spend on new product development has EBITA 120 95 27 increased, with a number of brands launched during the ABI 98 79 24 year and the company well positioned to go to market EBITA margin % 15.3 14.0 with exciting new offerings during this year.
Sterling Light ABI 16.5 15.8 Lager was launched during the year and received immediate consumer acceptance.
Redds has gained Sales volumes hls 000s significant share through the 660ml returnable pack.
Soft drinks 12,489 11,912 5 Brutal Fruit, launched as a new brand in June 2002, ABI 12,063 11,488 5 has shown significant potential but has been constrained by packaging supply limitations since its launch.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 29 Far left Appletiser bottling line, Western Cape, South Africa Left Palazzo Hotel, Montecasino, Sandton, South Africa Amalgamated Beverage Industries ABI Hotels and Gaming 2003 2002 The South African consumer environment improved Financial summary US$m US$m % change during the second half of the year under review, assisted Turnover 212 164 30 by a strengthening of the rand and favourable tax EBITA 42 28 47 measures in the recent Government budget.
Against this EBITA margin % 19.7 17.4 background ABI succeeded in delivering good results, through volume growth and overhead productivity gains.
Revpar US$ 32.10 23.98 34 Sales volume grew 5% in the year: 4.1% in CSDs, Revenue per available room.
This strong growth was Before exceptional profit on partial disposal of subsidiary US$4 million.
a function of the good weather conditions, continued improvement in market execution, and organic as well as Hotels and Gaming achieved good earnings growth with market share growth in certain areas of the expanding increased operational contributions from both segments.
The transaction regarding the restructuring of SABMillers Increased input costs and the adverse effect of mix Hotels and Gaming interests became unconditional on changes towards lower margin returnable glass packs 31 March this year.
This consolidated subsidiary will in were countered by strong productivity gains, leading to future be accounted for as an associate.
The new Tsogo a 24% increase in EBITA.
Sun Group is now set to pursue an independent future with the expectation that SABMillers 49% shareholding Appletiser will be reduced over time.
Appletiser recorded a signicantly increased trading profit, The hotel industry benefited from a significant increase building upon last years successes with further volume in foreign visitor arrivals to South Africa which has driven growth in all markets other than the United Kingdom.
strong operating profit growth for the period.
Occupancies Focused brand activity to increase consumer awareness at 72% were well up from the 66% achieved last year.
and Appletiser brand equity in the United Kingdom has Average room rates increased by 19%, translating into an recently been implemented.
Sales volumes in the overall revpar increase of 34% to US$32.10.
The successful remaining international markets grew 10%.
Combined hosting of the World Summit on Sustainable Development volumes for Appletiser and Grapetiser grew 16% in and the Cricket World Cup were also contributing factors.
Gaming divisions results were strongly inuenced by the performance of Montecasino, the divisions agship Distell casino and entertainment complex, which continues to The groups 30% equity accounted listed associate, trade well.
The Gauteng casino market grew by Distell, achieved sales volume growth in its domestic and approximately 15% when measured against the previous international markets.
Operating profit was signicantly financial year, with Montecasino marginally gaining market better, assisted by favourable sales mix at improved share.
Phase one of the Suncoast casino development in overall margins.
Durban was successfully opened in late November at a capital cost of US$95 million.
