08 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Review of operations Water and sewerage Turnover profit before interest 917.9 325.4 million million Work continued on our 70 million investment During the year, we achieved further operating programme at Derby sewage works.
In another cost efficiencies through a wide range of measures project, we invested 12 million to lay a water main between Redditch and Henley to reinforce including the better use of new technology and supplies in these areas.
by generating more of our own power.
We also began an 8 million upgrade to the Bamford water treatment works in 2002 2003 performance The increases now mean that we can north Derbyshire.
This project will improve In 2002 2003, turnover from water and continue to improve customer service and the quality of drinking water across the sewerage increased by 2.0% to 917.9 million properly maintain our assets in the face East Midlands as Bamford is one of the 899.9 million.
profit before interest, tax of rising costs.
We will also be able to meet companys key water treatment works, and goodwill amortisation was down 2.6% to other new challenges, such as the protection supplying up to 30 million gallons of water 325.5 million 334.1 million.
After goodwill of some householders from sewer ooding.
each day to customers across the region.
amortisation of 0.1 million nil, profit before interest and tax was 325.4 million While we were largely pleased with Service and quality 334.1 million.
OFWATs interim price determination, In the year we delivered our best ever levels of we were disappointed that it did not take service as measured by the OFWAT customer Direct operating costs of the regulated into account the impact on our operating service standards.
We continued to maintain water business were 362.5 million, a costs of new regulations relating to nitrate the highest levels of drinking water quality reduction in real terms of 1.4 million vulnerable zones.
and protection for our rivers.
Excluding the impact of ination, gross operating cost efficiencies in Beating the regulatory contract We replaced 15km of ageing cast iron pipes 2002 2003 amounted to 14.4 million, a During the year, we achieved further in and around Tenbury Wells, Worcestershire.
reduction of 4.1% compared to the previous operating cost efficiencies through a wide We also upgraded the Bromsgrove sewage year.
However, these efficiencies were offset range of measures including the better use treatment works to improve the quality by cost pressures of 13.0 million.
of new technology and by generating more of efuent being discharged to the local of our own power.
Relative to the beginning watercourse.
The Environment Agency has The programme for reducing costs in of AMP3, in 2002 2003 gross operating reported that in the last 10 years Midlands Severn Trent Water has continued to cost efficiencies amounted to approximately rivers have become considerably cleaner make good progress.
Since the beginning 61 million, some 16 million ahead of as a result of our investments at sewage of the third asset management plan post the OFWAT target, but were offset by cost treatment works.
privatisation AMP3, gross operating cost pressures amounting to approximately efficiencies have now reached 61 million 49 million.
By the end of AMP3, gross Our efforts to provide a top quality service per annum, offset by cost pressures operating efficiencies are expected to amount to our customers were recognised when we amounting to 49 million.
The 61 million to around 75 million although there will won a Customer Care Award at the Utility of gross operating cost efficiencies is be offsetting cost pressures.
Reecting the Industry Achievement Awards for the success 16 million ahead of the OFWAT target capital expenditure programme, increases of measures to tackle sewer ooding.
for Year 3 of the 5 year Plan period.
in depreciation are also expected.
Industry competition The interim determination In the year we invested approximately At the end of the year, Parliament was debating Last autumn, OFWAT allowed our appeal 425 million to deliver improvements in aspects of a new Water Bill, part of which to increase prices to finance several new customer service and higher standards in set a framework for greater competition challenges faced by the company since drinking water and sewage efuent quality.
We began to prepare the last price review in 1999 when customer for this new environment, which will initially charges were reduced by almost 12%.
Severn Trent Water continued to deliver impact only business customers using The new price limits bills will rise by efficiencies against its approximate 2 billion more than 50 megalitres of water a year, 2.1% above ination in 2003 and 2.2% investment programme for the five-year by strengthening account management with above ination in 2004 will mean that period 2000 2001 to 2004 2005 and is existing customers and working with major average household bills will rise by around on track to deliver average capex efficiencies users outside of our region.
We believe that 10 in 2003 2004. of around 7% over the AMP3 period.
the quality of our services positions us well to benefit from greater competition.
09 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Highlights Market opportunities Continued to deliver capital expenditure Awarded further contracts across The strengthening of our account efficiencies against our 2 billion the UK with such organisations as management and the quality of our investment programme for the period Rank Hovis McDougalls, Dairy Crest service means we are well-positioned to 2000 2001 to 2004 2005.
On track to and Northampton General Hospital.
benefit from greater competition amongst deliver around 7% efficiencies over AMP3.
Also, our business Named as the preferred bidder for has opportunities to grow in the areas of Won a Customer Care Award at the Utility a 15-year contract, with revenues of debt management, local authority contracts, Industry Achievement Awards.
750 million, with Solihull Metropolitan conveyancing searches and telecoms.
We already have experience of working Environment Agency and the Department outside the Severn Trent region through of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
agreements with such companies as Northern Other local research involved focus group Foods.
During 2002 2003, we continued to discussions across the region to gain a clear We are working closely cultivate opportunities across the UK and understanding of our customers aspirations with OFWAT and the other won further contracts with such organisations and their willingness to pay for any new as Rank Hovis McDougalls, Dairy Crest and investment needed to meet these regulatory bodies to improve Northampton General Hospital.
the regulatory framework to We further strengthened our portfolio of Our draft Strategic Business Plan, which is ensure that the needs of both value-added products with Waste Guardian.
due to be submitted to OFWAT in August, customers and shareholders This service helps companies to comply will also take into account further increases are met.
with the new IPPC Integrated Pollution in our costs.
As well as the impact of climate Prevention and Control legislation and change, we are facing rising costs in such Brian Duckworth to improve waste management.
areas as insurance, bad debts, pensions, Managing Director, sludge disposal and discharges to canals.
Severn Trent Water Growing the business In 2002 2003, Severn Trent Utility Services, Community and environment which provides asset management and We strive to be a responsible company and customer service solutions became the support many hundreds of projects all with preferred bidder for a 15-year contract a sustainability agenda across the Severn Outlook with Solihull Metropolitan Borough Council.
Our achievements in this area To ensure that we can deliver what This contract, due to start later this year with are measured externally and ranked against customers want and meet rising costs, revenues of around 750 million, will involve our peers in the Business in the Community it seems likely that water bills will need us working as the councils strategic partner corporate responsibility index.
to rise after the next pricing review.
as it seeks to improve services and value for money and introduce new technology.
We are particularly proud of our support to Severn Trent is working closely with OFWAT young people in our region.
In 2002 2003, and the other regulatory bodies to improve Severn Trent Utility Services also continued to for example, we supplied free water bottles the regulatory framework to ensure that the strengthen its relationship with existing clients to thousands of five-year-olds.
This scheme needs of both customers and shareholders such as Scottish Water and Network Rail.
followed studies suggesting that children are met.
We perceive a growing understanding who do not drink enough water are prone to at government level that significant efficiencies Our Severn Trent Retail Services business, tiredness, poor concentration and dehydration.
have now been achieved within the industry which was created to offer products The bottles, emblazoned with the H2GO logo, and that further investment is still needed to such as gas, electricity, insurance and are designed to be relled with tap water.
protect the achievements made to date and telecommunications services, continued secure further improvements for customers.
In the year, over In 2002, we joined forces with BBC Wildlife 200,000 products were sold to more than magazine and the Wildlife Trusts to search While there are challenges ahead, we believe 75,000 customers.
for the Young Environment Champion of the that the strengthening of dialogue with Year.
The scheme sought the most creative government, coupled with our ability to take The 2005 pricing review environmental projects in the UK created advantage of a more competitive environment, During the year we began to prepare our by children aged between 7 and 17. positions us well for future growth.
submission to OFWAT for the next pricing review.
This submission will include our We have surveyed over 1,700 of our proposed spending plans for the period operational sites for ecological signicance.
These plans will take into Over 650 of these sites contain at least account the state of our existing assets one target habitat from the UK Biodiversity and new legislation which we have to meet.
Management plans and revised maintenance regimes have been devised Our plans will also reect customer research and are being progressively implemented carried out in conjunction with OFWAT, the to maximise our contribution to biodiversity Drinking Water Inspectorate, Water UK, the targets.
10 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Review of operations Waste Turnover profit before interest and goodwill amortisation 510.9 67.9 million million goodwill amortisation 16.6 million Biffa volumes down 3%.
Before interest, tax was awarded European Eco-Management In 2002 2003, conditions in the UK waste and goodwill amortisation, the collection and Audit Scheme EMAS accreditation.
market were difficult as the economic slowdown division contributed a profit of 43.6 million impacted industrial and commercial volumes 45.3 million.
To improve efficiency and customer in Biffas three business sectors of collection, service within our commercial and industrial landll and special waste.
Biffa services a total of 53 municipal collection business, we successfully completed collection contracts which include waste the roll out of direct online communication However, in the UK, we saw significant growth and recyclables, collection, street cleaning, between our trucks and depots.
Eventually in the municipal sector, pre treatment activities civic amenity and transfer station sites.
Biffa the system will enable our depots to monitor and electricity generation.
Biffa Belgium also also works with more than 60,000 industrial the progress of all of our 1,200 trucks and performed well.
and commercial clients in the UK.
To help for customers to directly access their accounts these customers develop waste management online via the website.
In 2002 2003, waste managements turnover strategies that meet their obligation to nd increased by 3.3% to 510.9 million.
Turnover alternative disposal methods, we created We took steps to reduce the environmental in the UK increased by 1.7% to 457.3 million, a new pretreatment division.
This manages impact of our trucks by switching the entire while Belgian turnover increased by 18.3% all of our paper recycling branches, sorting eet to ultra low sulphur diesel, the cleanest to 53.6 million.
Biffas profit before interest, facilities and transfer stations.
We have also tax and goodwill amortisation including Biffa piloted the use of cleaner engines, oils and Belgium was down by 7.0%, to 67.9 million An expansion programme is in place to further paints and have taken measures to reduce but broadly at year-on-year if the contribution enhance our capabilities in this area through fuel use.
Our Biffpack packaging compliance from foot-and-mouth in 2001 2002 is excluded.
expanding our existing material recycling scheme, which is the third largest in the After goodwill amortisation of 16.6 million facilities and transfer stations.
This has UK, continued to expand and now has 16.8 million, profit before interest and tax commenced with a new recycling centre at 422 members.
Irlam in Lancashire, capable of handling around 100,000 tonnes of paper a year and Landll Legislation continued to drive the move away the redevelopment of our existing depot and Despite the growing demand for recycling, from landll towards alternative methods of recycling facility in Nottingham.
landll remains the UKs major waste disposal, such as recycling and composting.
In 2002 2003, our landll In particular, our reputation in assisting In response to environmental restrictions turnover in the UK was 141.6 million local authorities to meet challenging imposed by the EUs Electrical and Electronic 147.4 million.
Landll volumes decreased targets for diverting waste from landll, Equipment Directive, we also collaborated by around 7% 3% for sites open in both is being recognised.
with partners Endeva and EMR to create 2001 2002 and 2002 2003 and average Transform.
This new business seeks to make unit revenues were up by around 2% This increased focus on alternatives to landll recycling easier by pooling resources for excluding the impact of foot-and-mouth.
enabled us to extend and win significant disposal of redundant electrical appliances.
profit from the landll division, before contracts with local authorities.
For example, interest, tax and goodwill amortisation, was we were awarded a contract to manage all Bridgend Council awarded Biffa a six-year down 15.2% at 28.9 million 34.1 million.
waste collection, recycling and disposal facilities contract to provide household, trade, bulk for Leicester City Council with revenues of and clinical waste collection services.
Despite The EU Landll Directive started to 300 million.
As part of this 25-year contract, strong competition, we also won a seven-year take effect during 2002.
To meet the we will invest in a waste recycling facility.
contract with Mole Valley District Council requirements of the directive we submitted The contract, already started, includes weekly to manage its household, commercial and 46 conditioning plans to the Environment collections of wheeled-bins, glass, plastics recycling waste collections.
In addition to Agency, commencing the new permitting and paper for recycling.
In conjunction with these new customers, we have extended process under the Integrated Pollution Severn Trent Water, we will also build an existing agreements to include kerbside Prevention and Control IPPC regime.
anaerobic digester for treating the citys recycling collections in South Shropshire, organic waste.
Burnley, Forest of Dean and North Somerset.
Biffa continues to operate some 30 landll locations, including a new site at Skelton Collection Our long-running contract on the Isle of Grange, near Leeds.
This facility was built Our collection turnover in the UK was Wight provides essential experience for such to replace an existing site, which is now 270.7 million 260.8 million.
The economic integrated municipal contracts.
This includes the provision of a light slowdown affected industrial commercial year, 49% of the islands waste was diverted waste building for the handling of wind collection volumes, resulting in a decline from landll, and Island Waste Services blown wastes, such as paper and cardboard, 11 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Highlights Market opportunities Awarded a contract to manage all Awarded a three year contract by Shell Biffas integrated business model of waste collection and disposal facilities to service 630 retail forecourts, collect collection, landll disposal and special waste treatment positions the company as for Leicester City Council with revenues ofce waste from distribution terminals, the benchmark waste company in the UK.
and manage waste at the Stanlow and The Landll Directive opens up significant Eastham oil reneries.
Reduced the environmental impact of opportunities for long-term municipal our trucks by switching the entire eet significant growth in the municipal, contracts and this combined with a focus to ultra low sulphur diesel, the cleanest pre-disposal treatment and electricity on industrial and commercial waste mass-market fuel available.
ensuring the new Skelton Grange site can capacity to 83MW in the UK.
We are seeking provide continuous service in wet and windy to increase our generating capacity to around weather when other landlls may close.
It 100MW by 2006. is also one of the first in the country to be A raft of legislation and licensed under the new IPPC legislation, which Belgium increases in landll tax are is a requirement of the landll directive.
In Belgium, turnover increased by 18.3% to 53.6 million and profit before interest, likely to drive further demand We have been successful in gaining extensions tax and goodwill amortisation increased to for recycling, composting and to our sites, increasing our void bank by 3.1 million 1.3 million.
8 million cubic metres, which now stands at other alternatives to landll.
107 million cubic metres of operational void In Europe, waste legislation and recycling Our experience in the or void under development including Arpley.
techniques are ahead of the UK.
We believe European waste disposal our experiences in Belgium position us well Special waste to seize new opportunities presented by sector leaves us well placed The special waste division in the UK, which increasing legislation in the UK.
to seize these growing includes the important power generation activity, achieved a 9.0% increase in turnover It was a turnaround year for our business opportunities.
to 45.0 million and contributed profit before in Belgium, where we operate collection Martin Bettington interest, tax and goodwill amortisation of centres and a landll site at Cour Au Bois Managing Director, 5.9 million 6.1 million.
with the capacity to generate 3MW of power.
Biffa We also continued to operate depots for As one of the UKs largest suppliers of industrial and commercial customers and integrated waste management services we local authority contracts, as well as providing are well placed to help companies deal with a special waste treatment facility in Antwerp.
multiple waste streams and meet their legal obligations.
In 2002 2003, we were awarded Environment and community Lancashire and London, which has resulted a three year contract by Shell to service During the year we provided significant support in more than 70 hectares of new planting 630 retail forecourts, collect ofce waste from to environment and community initiatives.
with access improvements to a further distribution terminals, and manage waste 80 hectares of woodland.
at the Stanlow and Eastham oil reneries.
Our Landll Tax Credit Scheme, Biffaward, Previously, Shell employed several regional provided 17 million to community and We also launched our third biannual waste management companies for this work.
Since Biffaward environmental report Biffaecology.
began in 1997 we have donated 57 million We also won a major contract to deal with to more than 600 schemes.
Among those Outlook a variety of waste streams for Peugeot in to benefit this year was a young peoples A raft of legislation and increases in landll Coventry, and another contract with chemical skate park in Bexhill, East Sussex, a project tax are likely to drive further demand for company, Rhodia, to handle waste at seven that involved young people, the local authority, recycling, composting and other alternatives UK chemical plants.
The latter commits Biffa Bexhill High School and the Police, to provide to landll.
Our experience in the European to reducing Rhodias waste management much needed additional recreation space.
waste disposal sector leaves us well placed to costs through recycling and other landllBiffaward also funded a series of mass seize these growing opportunities.
balance research projects, continuing we believe a great deal of investment is the national programme on Sustainable needed in the UKs waste infrastructure to Our waste treatment plants are well placed to Resource Use.
Projects included the City deal with rapidly changing demands and that exploit opportunities offered by the Landll Limits report, a resource ow and ecological investment has been hindered by conicting Directive.
They have successfully developed a footprint analysis of Greater London, launched policies and confusing financial signals.
range of treatment technologies for customer by the Deputy Lord Mayor in September 2002. specic waste treatment need.
As customers In our recent publication, Future Perfect, we seek to comply with new regulations, such We were very pleased to have the Environment recommend a course of action for a more advanced technologies play an increasingly Minister Michael Meacher present the annual sustainable future.
This demands a sea change important role.
Biffaward awards for the fourth consecutive in attitudes and an industrial revolution for year.
The overall winner was the National the waste industry.
Critically, government, We continued to generate electricity from Urban Forest Unit, which established three NGOs and industry must work more closely landll gas, having increased our interests in new urban forestry initiatives in Yorkshire, together to nd effective solutions.
12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Review of operations The Services Group Turnover profit before interest goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 385.4 34.2 million million goodwill amortisation 8.5 million and exceptional charges 46.8 million 2002 2003 performance by many large rms and general economic with commercial clients and capitalising on Services turnover increased by 1.0% to pressures affecting much of the client base.
opportunities presented by new European 385.4 million.
profit before interest, tax, legislation, such as the Landll Directive and goodwill amortisation and exceptional Scale and breadth Integrated Pollution, Prevention and Control items increased by 6.9% to 34.2 million.
The scale and breadth of STLs offering remains IPPC regulations.
After goodwill amortisation of 8.5 million key to our success.
The laboratories business 9.6 million, profit before interest, tax works for 200 of the Fortune 500 companies We continued to win significant contracts and exceptional items was 25.7 million and, during 2002 2003, continued to win including a major agreement with Cardiff 22.4 million.
After an exceptional charge new work with large blue chip clients.
Harbour Authority, for example, that will of 46.8 million, Services profit before involve analysing samples to help their interest and tax was a loss of 21.1 million STL was also selected by ATOFINA ongoing monitoring and assessment of water profit of 22.4 million.
Petrochemicals, part of TotalFinaElf quality within the 200 hectare freshwater TOTAL, SA, to provide environmental lake created by closure of the Barrage.
The exceptional charge of 46.8 million, laboratory services to all of its US facilities.
represents a write down for impairment in Another example, just a few miles down the the carrying value of Water Purication and In 2002 2003, the business responded to coast is Llandarcy, the site of the UKs oldest Operating Services principally in pipeline emerging concerns about the prevalence of a crude oil renery.
The site owners, BP in services.
The charge for impairment has rocket fuel additive identied as perchlorate conjunction with the Welsh Development no impact on cash ows.
in US water sources by creating five Agency, are developing it for commercial and specialist analysis centres within existing residential use.
URS, a leading environmental Some 81% of Services turnover arose in the laboratories to respond to the demand for consultancy, are advising on environmental USA.
Excluding the impact of exchange rates, perchlorate testing.
To further strengthen our issues using data generated from analysis Services turnover increased by approximately portfolio a dedicated drinking water analysis completed by STL.
7% and profit before interest, tax, goodwill facility was equipped and certied in STLs amortisation and exceptional items increased existing laboratory in Savannah, Georgia.
After eliminating STL is a relatively young business that has the share of associated undertakings profit, During the year, the need to build a mycology grown signicantly in the last five years with where the corresponding turnover is not and microbiology capability in the US became the acquisition of laboratories across the US consolidated into Services results, Services clear, as key clients regularly requested this and UK.
During the year, significant progress sales margin increased to 6.3% 6.0%.
service and research revealed a growing was made towards full integration of all demand in this area.
This led to the acquisition our sites and the creation of a common of New Jersey-based P&K Microbiology culture within a unied company.
Extensive Severn Trent Laboratories Services shortly after the close of the financial efforts were made to create an employee Leadership year net assets on acquisition are provisionally communications program that will help staff In 2002 2003, Severn Trent Laboratories estimated at around 1 million.
This puts STL STL, strengthened its leadership position in in a particularly good position to capitalise on the US and UK environmental testing markets growing concerns about toxic mould, which despite the difficult economic conditions.
is linked to sick building syndrome.
This Turnover increased by 0.1% to 171.8 million, can lead to ill health among the occupants but turnover in the US in US$ grew by 4.4%, of affected buildings and is the subject of and turnover in the UK in grew by 24.0%.
numerous litigation claims in the US.
STLs leadership position and wide spectrum of services STL serves these markets with 29 laboratories UK highlights in the US and 4 in the UK.
During the year, we In the UK, STL has two centres of excellence places us in pole position continued to expand our geographic presence in Coventry, which specialise in waste water to win major contracts and with new service centres in key locations in and soil analysis, one in South Wales, that the US, bringing the total number of satellite focuses on drinking water, and another in continue to improve our locations to 16.
This expansion extends STLs Cheshire, with expertise in eco-toxicity, business model.
reach across the US by providing local sales microbiology and biology.
and sample collection services for key clients.
Rachel Brydon Jannetta In 2002 2003 the UK operation sought President and This increased turnover in the US and UK to offset potential reduced demand from Chief Executive officer, markets despite reduced corporate spending Severn Trent Laboratories the water sector by increasing its business 13 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Highlights Market opportunities Launched a major restructuring In STL, we continued to expand our For laboratories, the scale and breadth programme that integrated some US and geographic presence with new service of our offering remains key to its success.
In the UK, to offset potential reduced European businesses.
centres in key locations in the US.
demand from the water sector STL are Severn Trent Water International begun In Water Purication Solutions we seeking to capitalise on new legislation a 30-year contract to supply water and increased the proportion of our sales such as the Landll Directive and IPPC wastewater services in Terni, Italy.
outside the US to 45% as we renewed regulations.
For our services businesses our focus on global markets.
we will continue to increase our focus on international markets.
identify with sister laboratories and work and California manufacturing operations together to share customer projects and to into the Torrance, California facility.
benchmark best practice to create efficiency benets and technology sharing across all sites.
We continued to invest in developing and The restructuring of the marketing new technologies.
For example, business has laid a strong Outlook through our marketing alliance with Bayer STLs leadership and wide spectrum of AG we developed and began to market our foundation for growth when services places us in pole position to win SORB 33 system for removing naturally the economy recovers.
major contracts and continue to improve occurring arsenic from drinking water.
Len Graziano In line with our focus on global markets, our President and joint venture with fide Nora won a contract to Chief Executive officer, Severn Trent Services supply SEACLOR on site sodium hypochlorite Severn Trent Services Improving efficiency generation systems for use at the Ras Laffan In 2002 2003 Severn Trent Services took Industrial City in Qatar.
We also won a contract action to both improve efficiency and reduce to supply our ClorTec reservoir management During the year, we combined the US and its exposure to the troubled US economy.
systems at 28 reservoirs for the Moulton European operations of our water metering Niguel Water District in California.
business and introduced new software that We appointed a new chief executive who will enable us to read a wider range of water launched a major restructuring programme Operating Services including Severn Trent meters in use across the US.
that integrated some US and European Water International businesses, reduced layers of management, The Operating Services division operates Our international arm, Severn Trent Water consolidated manufacturing operations and water and wastewater facilities plus other International, focused on providing private closed four US sites, which reduced headcount related services for customers who are sector management in Western Europe, where by approximately 140 people.
As part of largely based in the US.
Its experience in state-owned water authorities are being the process, finance, human resources realising operating efficiencies and delivering restructured.
In 2002 2003, it increased and marketing functions were centralised.
new technology enables the division to achieve turnover by 43%.
We began our 30-year Italian This allowed us to spread best practice and significant cost savings for many clients.
contract to operate water and wastewater technologies more rapidly around the world, Turnover in Operating Services increased services in Terni, Umbria.
This positions us well generate necessary cost savings and place by 4.6% to 126.1 million.
to take advantage of emerging opportunities greater focus on markets with significant in Italy.
We also continued to operate in growth potential.
Contract operations delivered organic Belgium, Germany, Ireland and Portugal.
It was buoyed Water Purication Solutions by demand from US municipalities seeking Severn Trent Water Internationals Our Water Purication division delivers ways to reduce costs in order to ease budget management consultancy business works water disinfection and ltration products deficits.
The city of Jackson, Mississippi with funding agencies and governments to to municipal and industrial customers.
Its renewed and expanded our operations support sustainable development and capacity turnover decreased by 2.1% to 87.5 million.
and maintenance contract, which includes building in the developing world and Eastern Its performance was impacted by its difficult three wastewater treatment plants and and Central Europe.
During the year we were market place: there was a fall in demand for 92 pumping stations.
In a separate contract, awarded a management contract for Guyana ltration systems, as industrial clients reined the city of Alamogordo in New Mexico Water Incorporated, which covers the whole in spending and municipal clients reallocated awarded us an eight-year contract to operate of Guyana.
In Russia, we led two consultancy already tight budgets to security areas.
its water and wastewater treatment facilities.
projects to improve water management in However, following management action, 14 cities.
performance improved in the second half.
By contrast, pipelines services performed poorly in a difficult market, as municipalities Outlook We increased the proportion of our sales sought to rein in spending on their water and The restructuring of the business has laid outside the US to 45% as we renewed sewerage infrastructure.
In response to the a strong foundation for growth when the our focus on global markets.
We also fall in demand for pipeline assessment work, economy recovers.
We also believe that our brought together the previously separate we closed sites in Texas, Tennessee, North increased focus on international markets US and European operations under a single Carolina and Connecticut.
will help to insulate the business from future management.
To further reduce our cost economic difficulties in particular regions.
base, we consolidated our New Hampshire 14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Review of operations Other businesses Highlights Aseriti, the new brand for Severn Trent Systems work management business, Systems in the UK, was created to help under the Worksuite brand, is being move the business forward with a new transformed into a stand-alone business.
and exciting strategy of development Based in Houston, it has global reach and growth.
Through restructuring, it lowered its cost base while retaining its leadership position in North America.
it has global reach through its partner network.
At Hinckley, where the company had Systems Through restructuring, it lowered its cost base originally intended undertaking a distribution 2002 2003 performance while retaining its leadership position in North scheme, the site has been sold to another Total turnover for Systems reduced to America.
Its customer reception continues to developer.
Planning permission has recently 61.3 million 62.0 million.
National Grid became a Worksuite been obtained for a 770,000 sq.
ft mixed produced a loss before interest, tax and customer in the past year.
Industry leaders use scheme at Tournament Fields, Warwick.
exceptional items of 3.1 million loss of such as AEP, LG&E, PPL, and We Energies 5.8 million.
After an exceptional credit put Worksuite products into production.
Both Engineering consultancy of 6.0 million net exceptional charge FPL, and in the UK, Severn Trent Water also During the year Charles Haswell and Partners 17.0 million, profit before interest and implemented the new Worksuite wireless has been recognised as one of the top three tax was 2.9 million loss of 22.8 million.
The reception for its most medium-sized consulting engineers by a recent products in the areas of the internet, leading industry journal.
Agreement has been reached with those scheduling and wireless continues to grow, customers in the US over the CIS-Open Vision with the wireless segment enhanced by a The company has continued to make a contracts that were in dispute, with the reseller agreement with Panasonic.
major contribution to the successful delivery associated costs of these problem contracts of Severn Trent Waters capital programme expected to be covered by the 25.0 million for 2002 2003 and has been recognised by Property, Engineering consultancy exceptional charge in 2001 2002.
An Yorkshire Water Services as a key member of and Insurance exceptional credit of 6.0 million has been its very successful Eastern Area Wastewater taken in the year, representing the release of 2002 2003 performance Capital Solution Team.
It is also a member part of the 25.0 million exceptional charge.
Total turnover from these businesses in of a consortium that is delivering capital Systems continues to provide some support the year was 73.0 million 43.0 million solutions to Scottish Water.
and maintenance for these customers.
generating profit before interest and tax of 5.5 million 1.5 million.
Charles Haswell and Partners is a key member Aseriti, the new brand for Severn Trent of the team delivering the Dublin Port Tunnel Systems in the UK, was created to help Property Project which is the largest civil engineering move the business forward with a new and Development activity during 2002 2003 project in Ireland and is a major contributor exciting strategy of development and growth.
continued at an encouraging level, with to the Channel Tunnel Rail Link project.
Aseriti takes a strong interest and pride in Through the introduction of its Business the culture that it creates in its business.
At Thorpe Park, Leeds, which has an Management System the company has Through an extensive culture change ultimate capacity of 1.8 million sq.
ft of enabled the successful transition of its programme, employees are being involved ofce development, pre let buildings are quality assurance processes to the ISO in creating an adaptive and constructive in course of construction for WS Atkins plc 9000:2000 standard.
culture for now and the future.
and Boxwood plc, whilst a regional ofce for Bryant Homes Limited was handed over Insurance In Severn Trent Water, Aseriti delivered a in March.
Derwent Insurance, based in Guernsey, number of very large projects, including a provides insurance cover to Severn Trent eld asset management system, and 5,000 Daventry International Rail Freight Terminal group companies.
We also put in remains the largest scheme to be undertaken place a benchmarked development services by the company and during the year terms contract to ensure best value for our work were concluded with Royal Mail for the with Severn Trent Water.
construction of a new regional sorting hub of almost 300,000 sq.
Aseriti has also had its first successes in This building due for completion in August, has winning business outside the utility market now been forward sold to a private investor.
working on a variety of consultancy and technology projects for public and private sector clients.
Systems work management business, under the Worksuite brand, is being transformed into a stand-alone business.
