2003 has been a year of contrast with our Continental businesses performing creditably whilst Shanks has been working in severe trading difficulties have substantially reduced operating profits in the UK.
Notwithstanding these difficulties staff throughout the Group have worked hard particularly to partnership with local ensure a good cash flow result for the year.
I thank each one for their individual contribution.
authorities for over 20 years and continues to develop Although minimum standards of waste management are governed by the European Union, each country of operation is at a different stage of development.
Each business is therefore new integrated solutions to managed on an individual country basis.
Each country management contributes to proposed help manage waste.
changes in the rapidly evolving regulatory framework which defines the market for our services.
In the UK, the Group already has contracts with over 40 local Group turnover authorities.
Increasingly, local Turnover rose by 4% to 551m.
UK Waste Services revenue was static despite the effect of authorities need expert industry 1 per tonne increment in landfill tax, mainly due to the 13% decline in landfill volumes.
In contrast PFI projects and Power showed good growth.
As expected, UK Chemical Services partners to address recent changes in turnover declined as the cessation of operations at Pontypool more than offset the growth in waste management legislation other services.
Benelux sales increased by 10%, partially as a result of the stronger Euro requiring greater recycling, recovery which contributed 4% with the balance from the organic growth of the businesses in both and diversion of waste from landfill.
As part of an integrated approach, United Kingdom with proven Italian technology from The UK operations consist of two divisions Waste Services, which collects and manages municipal, commercial and industrial wastes, and Chemical Services, which specialises in Ecodeco, Shanks is promoting its the treatment of hazardous chemical waste and related services including recovery.
mechanical biological treatment technology MBT to assist authorities The results at UK Waste Services were disappointing with trading profits falling by 16.4m in meeting and beating these targets.
Landfill activities with profits down by 16m have fared particularly poorly due to the end of Foot and Mouth inputs -5m, steeply rising regulatory costs -7m The first of these units in the UK, and lower core business volumes -7m offset by price increases 3m.
The volume subject to planning permission, are reduction was due to diversion of waste from landfill as a result of the Landfill Directive, scheduled for East London where lower contaminated spoil inputs and a campaign to increase prices to recover additional costs.
Results in the Collection and Recycling sector have also been unsatisfactory with Shanks has now taken over the profits falling by 4m.
As a consequence, Waste Services has been substantially management of an annual 500,000 reorganised.
Senior changes have been made and new analytical skills are being brought to tonnes of rubbish on behalf of four bear, particularly on profitability.
local authorities under a 25-year PFI contract.
More encouragingly the activities which the Group has been developing for the future have performed much better.
Profits from the generation of electricity from landfill gas have In Dumfries & Galloway in Scotland, increased by 3m because of higher prices on 15MW of output under the Renewables Order Shanks is the PFI contract preferred and capacity increases of 16MW under the old NFFO scheme.
The MBT solution has The existing PFI project for Argyll & Bute to dispose of its municipal waste continued to attracted widespread interest from perform to its plan and, in December 2002, the Group brought the ELWA contract to financial local authorities.
The profit improvement from these two projects amounted to 0.8m.
Artists impression of one of the enclosed and low-impact MBT 3 4 units proposed for East London.
Composting of green waste is a growing activity throughout the Group.
Recycling facilities, such as this one, separate materials for future re-use.
Shanks promotes rail travel, where practicable, for waste which has to be landfilled.
Innovative solutions, such as these sub-ground recycling bins, are used by residents in parts of the Netherlands.
5 With long experience of working with local authorities Shanks is now promoting innovative partnerships for the needs of today - and years to come.
From small businesses to giant industrial installations, Shanks is offering tailor-made solutions in waste and resource management 2 1.
A new physical, chemical and biological treatment plant has 3 been installed at Stewartby.
On-site Shanks installation at a UK chemicals plant.
Sobry, in Belgium, is a leader in industrial waste treatment.
Commercial waste is sorted and processed for re-use at Icova in the Netherlands.
Shanks expertise is delivered to small and large customers.
Specialist collection and treatment at Shanks Liverpool plant.
continued The ELWA project provides a showcase for the new mechanical biological treatment Collection and safe, secure, technology developed with our Italian partners Ecodeco.
The Group is currently examining the disposal remains a valid and longer term prospect of using the output of this process as a fuel to generate electricity.
If successful the value of the technology is further greatly enhanced giving it the potential to valued service for many be the method of choice for the disposal of municipal waste.
Already several local authorities customers.
In today's are expressing keen interest.
marketplace this is only a Despite recording a loss of 1.2m 2002: 4.0m loss the Chemical Services division was small part of a vast cash positive in the year.
Although these results remain unsatisfactory considerable progress spectrum of customer has been made.
Savings resulting from the cessation of operations at the Pontypool incinerator amount to 4.1m which more than offset the 2.0m reduction from the expiry of requirements.
the first contract to process MBM.
Prices for the remaining Fawley incineration plant have stabilised and better capacity utilisation has resulted in an enhanced contribution.
In Bespoke solutions, often incorporating aggregate all other activities recorded an improvement of 0.7m.
treatment or recycling, continue to be developed throughout the Group's Although the new fluidised bed plant to process MBM from the second contract functioned operations.
for most of the year, its operations were characterised by capacity restrictions and frequent stops to address shortcomings.
The contractor responsible executed major modifications to the plant in January and February 2003 since when its performance has greatly improved.
Offering advice and practical waste Providing this improvement is sustained results in 2003 4 should reflect this progress.
reduction solutions to industrial clients is increasingly common.
At some During the year the Prime Ministers Strategy Unit completed an extensive study of waste locations Shanks' staff are on-site, management in England and published its findings in late 2002 under the title Waste not, managing specific outputs or even a Want not.
Several recommendations were made to the Government which has recently whole range of waste.
responded, both through the Chancellors annual budget and through a formal response from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA published as this report is being written.
Crucially it is now known that Landfill Tax will increase from 15 per tonne in Design, build and operation of on-site 3 per tonne annual increments commencing in April 2005.
This policy will continue until a treatment facilities is now also an longer term rate of circa 35 per tonne is reached.
This charge, coupled with other option.
initiatives, will greatly enhance the opportunity for the technology successfully developed with our Italian partner Ecodeco for municipal wastes, as typified by the ELWA project.
Similarly a ATM in the Netherlands and Sobry in market will be created for the recycling of industrial and commercial wastes similar to that Belgium are leaders in treatment found in the Netherlands where the current landfill tax rate is already above 40 per tonne.
technologies for difficult and The House of Commons EFRA standing committee examined the issue of hazardous waste hazardous wastes.
Their specialist during the year.
As a result of its recommendations a national Hazardous Waste Forum has plants offer a wide range of physical, been established.
High among its priorities is to ensure the safe disposal of hazardous chemical or biological processes.
In waste following the ending of landfill co-disposal practice in July 2004.
This can only further the UK Shanks Chemical Services expand the market for Chemical Services.
continues to grow its own extensive transfer and treatment capabilities, in line with evolving legislation and demand.
continued Belgium In the Netherlands and Belgium operations are similar to those in the UK but include specialist demolition and soil cleaning at fide Paepe and an industrial cleaning activity.
Belgium commercial and industrial waste recycling The management team in Belgium has delivered a creditable performance with trading profit has advanced in line with increasing by 1.4m to 14.5m.
Better results at fide Paepe in Gent and in the Brabant regulatory and taxation district of Wallonia have been the principal drivers of the underlying improvement of 0.8m.
Shanks has a growing portfolio of expertise Progress in the re-permitting of the extension to the Mont St. Guibert landfill remains slow.
Maximum efforts are being made given the value of success to the Group.
The division is in all its operational areas.
also having some notable successes in the area of remediation of contaminated land.
Land re-use in the form of soil Several operating units provide synergistic skills critical to the serving of this growing market.
Opportunities just over the border in Northern France are also being exploited to good effect.
remediation features in the UK and Belgium, with physical and biological Netherlands treatment and, in the Netherlands, with Netherland operations are similar to those in Belgium but include a computer refurbishment ATM's high temperature soil-cleaning.
operation and exclude any landfill activity.
Railway development, such as the Trading profit in the year improved by 0.9m to 25.9m which was almost entirely due to the Brussels-Amsterdam high-speed line strengthening Euro.
However, the operations performed well to substantially recover cost expansion and the Channel Tunnel Rail increases in insurance and pension costs, lower soil volumes due to uncertainty regarding Link contract around London, has also cleaned soil specifications and reduced economic activity.
The industrial cleaning unit Reym involved Shanks in projects: including fittingly celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2003 with a strong performance.
provision of recovered soil and clay for earthworks and providing clean ballast The Group remains pleased with these acquisitions made in 2000, where the management material for re-use.
team continues to build on its strong franchise particularly in the Randstad area of the country.
Success in the appeal to the State Council concerning the permits for the ATM Computers are refurbished at Flection hazardous waste processing unit should lead to a regularising of these problems and a in the Netherlands and a number of resumption of third party waste inputs into the pyrolysis plant in the second half of 2003 4. fuel-from-waste products are produced Recent clarification on the specification for cleaned soils should also lead to an improvement within the Group.
Selected wastes in the ATM soil processing facility.
The export of certain waste streams for further processing in Germany has also helped to contain costs.
from offices, shops and schools in the western Netherlands are processed Further initiatives including new waste wood processing capacity and the full year effect of a into fuel pellets, partially replacing recent acquisition in the Rotterdam area will further complement the range of activities.
At various specialist Shanks plants, solvents are Prospects recovered and resold, oil and water are The economies in the low countries are showing definite signs of slowing particularly in the separated and waste chemicals are all important construction sector.
With full use of the pyrolysis plant and other capacity blended into fuel for cement kilns.
enhancements at ATM, this downturn should be mitigated.
Success in the re-permitting of the Mont St. Guibert landfill will ensure the continuation of the service to our important Electricity from landfill gas also municipal customers in Belgium.
Opportunities continue to emerge in Northern France.
contributes enough power to run well over 100,000 average homes.
Improvements in UK performance remain the major challenge.
Progress is being made within Chemical Services and it is expected that recent actions taken within Waste Services will begin to bear fruit later in the current year.
In the longer term initiatives already outlined in this report provide a strong foundation for market leadership in our chosen sectors.
M C E Averill Group Chief Executive 8 shanks.
The 'Goliath' earth-turning soil aerator in action.
Re-usable ballast in store at Stewartby.
Preparing concrete for re-use in Belgium.
The latest landfill gas electricity plant at Calvert.
High temperature soil cleaning at ATM.
6 Managing resources - through recycling, recovery and re-use - is increasingly the focus of waste management.
