Responding to consumer trends The Silver Spoon brand, for many years the UKs favourite sugar, has demonstrated great potential for extension throughout the sweetener category.
Organic and Light variants are now available.
Our international grocery businesses performed strongly with sales up 16% to 2,346m and profit up 37% to 148m.
They represent an increasingly significant proportion of the groups activities at 47% of sales and 33% of profit.
This year has benefited from the acquisition of Mazola in July 2002 and the acquisition of Ovaltine in November 2002.
The addition of Mazola to our existing foodservice and own label business Pop it in the microwave has more than doubled the profit from ACH this year.
The acquisition of Ovaltine and its integration with our existing Westmill Foods is another of our grocery companies international specialist tea operation, Twinings, has created making important new product introductions and an international hot beverages business.
Strong growth was investing in manufacturing efficiency.
The company also delivered by our existing businesses, particularly George specialises in ethnic foods and in recognition of the Weston Foods in Australia and Twinings.
Grocery profit, growth in consumer demand for convenience food however, has been impacted by significant rationalisation it has launched a range of innovative microwaveable costs charged this year relating to Australia, Westmill and products throughout the year.
Four new rice Allied Bakeries and the poor performance of our frozen products, Basmati, Pilau, Garlic & Coriander and bakery operation in the UK.
Coconut & Mustard Seed, have been rolled out under the licensed brand, Pataks.
In the US, Mazola has been integrated with ACHs These were followed at the year existing oils business in line with the end by a range of Ken Hom stir-fry acquisition plan.
The ACH supply sauces and microwaveable rice chain capability as well as the and noodles.
marketing strength that has been built around these acquired brands will provide a strong base for further growth in North America, especially within the fast growing Hispanic community where the Mazola brand is very strong.
The strength of the Mazola brand was demonstrated by resilient volumes despite price increases to recover significantly higher costs of corn oil.
Encouraging progress was made in branded foodservice oils, where ACH built on the strength of its leading brands, Whirl and Frymax, despite the slow recovery of the North American foodservice market.
However, margins reduced in the own label retail and ingredients businesses.
After the year end the own label retail business was strengthened by the acquisition of a smaller competitor.
The complex integration of Ovaltine and its related brands with Twinings has been implemented in line with the acquisition plan by a dedicated integration team whose 10 Associated British Foods plc Grocery continued success is testament to meticulous project management.
Integration will be concluded early next year when we move into our newly constructed Swiss headquarters for Ovaltine adjacent to the Neuenegg factory.
The resulting combination, with a strong management team, provides us with a platform for further growth in international hot beverages.
Twinings has continued to grow in its core speciality tea markets.
Sales were particularly strong in the US and Europe and capital is being invested to increase the tea-bagging capacity at its Newcastle factory.
The profit from Ovaltine was in line with expectations with a good performance from the key growth markets of south east Asia.
Allied Bakeries increased volume, continued to invest behind its successful Kingsmill brand, and reduced costs but these benets were offset by the impact of margin pressure in a very competitive environment.
Kingsmill investment saw strong promotional and trade support and the successful launch of Toastie, a recipe created to give consumers great toast.
A major programme of new product launches is planned for the coming year and after the year end the largest ever promotion in the UK bread sector was launched with Kingsmill Kit for Clubs supported by national television advertising.
In distribution, investment is under way to install satellite tracking technology across the vehicle eet.
The positional and engine management data will be used to optimise the operation of the fleet whilst minimising vehicle emissions and maximising customer service.
The our mills retained following our exit from third party milling The acquisition of Ovaltine are now integrated within Allied Bakeries.
The mills at Manchester and Tilbury are among the most modern and and its integration with efficient in Europe and opportunities to remove cost from our supply chain have already positively impacted this years Twinings has created results with further potential benets to come.
Tough market conditions and operating difficulties continued to impact an international hot the results at our frozen bakery operation in the UK and its profitability declined as a result.
Management changes have beverages business.
been made which should lead to progress in the coming year.
Ryvita, a brand synonymous with healthy eating, has seen demand for its traditional crispbread range remain strong in its UK home market.
A focus on manufacturing efficiencies has improved production costs.
To meet the public demand for more healthy snack products, Rice Cakes and Tondos, extensions to the Ryvita brand, have been launched and offer great tasting, low fat snacks.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 11 Grocery continued Westmill Foods made significant progress in its wholesale business and has now introduced new retail products.
It specialises in ethnic foods and, in response to the growth in consumer demand for convenience food, it has launched a range of innovative microwaveable products for the retail trade during the year.
Four new rice products, Basmati, Pilau, Garlic & Coriander and Coconut & Mustard Seed, have been rolled out under the licensed brand, Pataks.
At the year end we launched a range of Ken Hom stir-fry sauces and microwaveable rice and noodles which will be supported by a television advertising campaign.
Westmill has also announced its plans to rationalise its production sites from five to three with the closure of three small sites and the opening of a new factory in Manchester.
The new factory is expected to be fully operational next summer to manufacture noodles with improved efficiency and provide the capacity for the microwaveable products.
Silver Spoon has demonstrated that its brand values and distribution strengths make it a perfect vehicle for brand extensions.
From its position of strength as the UKs leading retail sugar brand it now offers a complete range in the sweetening sector.
Nothing Comes Closer To Sugar increased its share of the sweetener market and in the second half of the year a reduced calorie sugar option, Silver Spoon Light, was test marketed.
Crusha milk shake syrup sales increased, supported in the second half of the year by an innovative interactive television advertising campaign.
Strong signs of recovery are evident in the results of our Marketing strength will Australian operations.
In September 2002 we acquired the minority shareholdings in George Weston Foods and provide a strong base for delisted the company from the Sydney Stock Exchange.
This led the way for a complete review of head office and further growth in North administrative functions, which have been considerably simplified, with a greater emphasis now being placed on America, especially within devoting management time to profit improvement initiatives.
One-time costs of 12m have been charged which relate the fast growing Hispanic to rationalisation both in the businesses and head office.
This reduction in overheads has been complemented by community where the a much improved underlying trading position.
In baking, the continued success of Tip Top as Australias favourite food Mazola brand is very strong.
12 Associated British Foods plc New product development As demand for healthy snacking products grows, Ryvita has launched Rice Cakes and Tondos Rice Snacks.
Ryvita is one of the most trusted healthy eating brands and these new products are part of a strategy to offer consumers great tasting, low fat snacks.
brand and cost saving initiatives, resulted in an improvement in profit.
This is a creditable performance particularly in view of the disruption caused by the loss of the Fairfield bakery last year through fire.
A new site has now been secured, the new bakery is under construction and the first production line is due to start by the end of 2004.
Milling in Australia also performed well and recovered from the impact of record wheat prices which resulted from droughts in Australia and North America.
In addition, good wheat stock management, strong animal feed prices and cost savings resulted in an increased profit.
The loss-making biscuit & cake business was rationalised during the year.
The cake operation was transferred to the bakery business and production will be consolidated in the Brisbane factory.
The closure of Sydney biscuit factory has been announced and the sale of the main chocolate biscuit brands was completed after the year end.
Meat & dairy continued to make progress following the management changes and restructuring reported at the half year.
Volume increased in branded pre-packaged products and a lite ham was launched with an on-pack endorsement from the Heart Foundation.
Volumes in fresh meat also increased and the benets of cost savings in the factories are being realised.
Making progress down under Tip Top is Australias No.
Two extensions, Tip Top Up with Omega 3DHA and Tip Top Up Hybe Calcium, provide a simple and tasty way to add important nutrients to the daily diet.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 13 adding value A natural source of sweetness and energy British Sugar is the leading supplier to the chocolate, confectionery, soft drink, canned food, baking and frozen foods markets.
14 Associated British Foods plc Primary food & agriculture We add value to primary products through our sophisticated and efficient processing facilities to produce high quality staple ingredients such as sugar.
Highlights of the year British Sugar produced 1.43 million tonnes of sugar.
Up over 17% on the previous year.
Glinojeck sugar factory in Poland set a production record of over 100,000 tonnes.
ABNA continues to develop supply chain partnerships supported by its systems of quality assurance.
Sugar We have a powerful market presence in the UK, Poland and China through British Sugar.
In the UK we buy the entire sugar beet crop each year and supply about a half of the UKs total annual requirement for sugar.
Animal feed The majority of British farmers use our animal feed products, making us the largest supplier in the UK.
Seed processing and merchanting Included in our full range of products and services for UK farmers are seed supply and grain Primary food & agriculture at a glance storage and trading.
2003 2002 Speciality growing Sales m 1,611 1,543 High value products such Operating profit m 176 168 as evening primrose oil, echinacea and borage are profit margin % 10.9 10.9 typical of the plant extracts Return on capital employed % 24.8 24.3 we grow and process.
