Chief Executives Review of Operations The Group has made good progress in 2003 and we have delivered against the objectives that we outlined to our shareholders at the beginning of the year.
The geographic and product diversity of SIG gives me great confidence in our future.
Introduction Actions were taken to widen the product range and our onI am pleased to report that the Group made good progress in going programme of expansion led to new site openings in both 2003.
Sales and profits hit record levels and we strengthened the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
We reinforced our position our market position throughout all our activities.
as the largest materials supplier to the roofing industry.
In addition to achieving like for like i. e. before the benefit of Gross margins were maintained compared with prior year and acquisitions in 2002 and 2003 growth in sales and operating the net operating margin reduced slightly due to the impact of profits, the results for the year benefited from the efficiency increased costs associated with the ongoing programme of improvements under our Continuous Improvement investment in sales and customer service facilities.
Programme, the ongoing impact of acquisitions and the Within the Commercial Interiors division we experienced a strength of the Euro.
continuation of the fall in demand for fit-out products from the premium office sector.
Sales and operating profits were sharply Highlights down for our core products associated with this market, UK and Republic of Ireland c. 64% of total Group sales Sales were increased by 10.4% to 810.7m 2002 : 734.5m especially high specification bespoke partition systems.
and operating profits pre goodwill amortisation of 3.951m Expenditure on new product development was increased and 2002 : 3.669m grew by 5.5% to 54.2m 2002 : 51.4m.
the associated costs also impacted on the results in 2003.
Like for like sales growth overall was 6% 2002 : 3%.
These changes to our product range extend our coverage and Sales growth was achieved in all market sectors in the UK and take us into new market sectors and reinforce our position as Republic of Ireland, other than in premium office interiors, where the leading supplier of specialist partitioning and related the sharp decline in market demand continued throughout the products in the UK.
The larger volume operation involved in the supply of Our largest business unit, UK and Republic of Ireland Insulation mainstream interior products to the wider non-residential had an excellent year, with double digit growth in like for like building sector had a good year with both sales and operating sales and operating profits.
This picture does emphasise the point that the difficulties in the interiors sector were localised to the premium Whilst the gross margin reduced slightly due to changes in the office market.
product mix, the net operating margin increased.
In Safety Products we had a very successful turnaround year, Market demand for thermal insulation materials increased and moved back into profit.
Sales were increased, costs progressively throughout the year, as the new, tighter Building reduced and the gross and operating margin significantly Regulations increased the minimum standards of insulation required in the walls, roof and floor of all types of new buildings.
The product range and sales operation have been refocused and these changes, together with a warehouse It is also apparent that the new standards are being used in many renovation and upgrading projects, where it is technically reorganisation have enabled customer service levels to be feasible to do so.
The impact of the new Regulations has created some changes Like for like sales growth in Construction Accessories was in product mix, due to the technical characteristics of different supplemented by the full year impact of an acquisition made in insulation materials.
Whilst this mix change has been slightly 2002.
Operating profits declined due to margin pressure and detrimental to the gross margin, we believe we have the impact of cost increases partly associated with the strengthened our market position due to the uniquely reorganisation of this unit.
comprehensive breadth and depth of our stockholding.
We have been able to meet the changing pattern of customer Mainland Europe c. 31% of total Group sales requirements on demand, whilst maintaining very high service Sales increased by 2.9% in local currencies and 12.7% in levels.
Continued investment in customer service is key to our Sterling to 394.2m 2002 : 349.8m.
Sales were up in local performance in this area.
currency in all countries in which the Group operates i. e. Germany, France, The Netherlands and Poland.
Costs were The Group is heavily involved in a range of energy efficiency held in real terms in local currencies and this combined with an programmes concerning the upgrading of insulation in existing increase in the gross margin enabled operating profits pre homes and these programmes stimulated increased demand goodwill amortisation of 0.6m 2002 : 0.6m to increase by during 2003.
29% in local currencies and 43% in Sterling to 11.0m 2002 : The Roofing division grew sales and profits significantly during 7.7m.
the year, with good like for like sales growth being supplemented by the incremental benefit of the acquisitions made in this sector This is an excellent performance against a background of weak in 2002 and 2003. markets.
16 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Trade Counter, SIG Roofing, Bristol, UK.
The Group has an extensive range of trade counters, staffed by experts, across its network of branches.
As well as advising impartially on the appropriate product for customers, they give the opportunity for collection from first thing in the morning to last thing at night.
In Germany construction activity fell in 2003 and whilst the Acquisitions market for our products declined, we increased sales in Euros 2003 was a year in which our acquisition activity was despite the closure of six branches towards the end of 2002. intentionally very limited.
Improved efficiencies and increased focus on pricing We acquired a roofing distributor and two insulation operations management within the business enabled operating profits to in the UK, and in France we added a commercial interiors be substantially increased.
operation and an air handling operation to compliment our existing sales into this sector.
New products have been added to the stock range and we have further strengthened our position in the market.
Total consideration was 3.5m and annualised sales of the acquired operations is circa.
All are trading profitably and France have integrated well into the Group.
Sales and operating profit grew in 2003 in Euros, on a like for like basis.
This was supplemented by two small acquisitions.
People The staff and management throughout SIG share a common Market demand in both insulation and commercial interiors culture: to give our customers outstanding service and to was weak and our performance represents an increase in our continue to strengthen and grow the business for the benefit of market share.
The performance in 2003 is based on the determination and Sales from the new roofing branches increased and the product skills of all our employees.
Summary The Netherlands The Group has made good progress in 2003 and we have Market demand fell in The Netherlands in 2003, both for delivered against the objectives that we outlined to our commercial interior and industrial insulation products.
Sales shareholders at the beginning of the year.
In addition we have were increased in Euros, due to the full year benefit of the 2002 strengthened the business for the longer term.
Costs associated with the opening of a new local demand fluctuations will present challenges from time to operation together with changes in the product mix reduced time, the geographic and product diversity of SIG gives me great operating profits.
Poland Sales grew strongly and operating losses were sharply lower than prior year.
Market demand began to improve from the mid-year onwards.
We added a new branch in the North to improve customer service and also invested in new insulation fabrication facilities to take advantage of emerging opportunities.
These developments combined with tight cost control enabled a small operating profit to be achieved in the second half of the year, for the first time in any six month period.
USA c. 5% of total Group sales Total sales in the USA declined by 1.7% in US Dollars and 9.8% in Sterling to 63.7m 2002 : 70.6m.
Demand from the core petrochemical and refining industries in the Southern Gulf States continued to be very weak and some major projects were delayed towards the year end.
Actions were taken to reduce costs by restructuring certain operations.
Sales and operating profits declined.
The branches located down through the Eastern States, which David Williams, operate in generally lighter industrial insulation markets such as Chief Executive heating and air conditioning traded well, increasing both sales and operating profits.
Our USA operations successfully embraced the drive to improve the operational ratios in the Group and made good progress in cash generation, working capital ratios and cost reduction.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 17
