review of operations 14 15 on the market entitled to a significant enhancement in the rate Paxil CR, an improved version of of the royalty we receive on sales of Paxil CR GlaxoSmithKlines selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor SSRI antidepressant Paxil from the date on which generic paroxetine entered the US market.
Should we be unable to arrive paroxetine, continues to make encouraging at a mutually satisfactory agreement with our progress.
Paxil CR was designed to reduce the incidence of nausea, a troubling early side-effect partner, we will resort to the binding arbitration of all SSRI antidepressants that contributes procedure laid down in the original agreement.
to poor compliance with this class of drug.
A recently published study of US prescription Our second oral product on the market is a Michael Ashton Chief Executive data for depression showed a significantly lower once-daily version of Sanofi-Synthlabos Xatral discontinuation rate with Paxil CR than with alfuzosin, a treatment for the urinary symptoms competing SSRI antidepressants.
GlaxoSmithKline of benign prostatic hypertrophy, a common launched Paxil CR in the USA in April 2002 for condition affecting males in middle age.
Xatral treating depression and panic disorder and it has OD has now been launched throughout Europe recently also been launched in Canada.
Paxil CR and also in Canada and other territories in Africa, has subsequently been approved by the FDA Asia and Latin America.
The older multi-dose for two other depression-related indications, versions of Xatral, which had to be taken two social anxiety disorder and the continuous or three times a day, have now been withdrawn and intermittent treatment of pre-menstrual from the market in some areas.
The main event dysphoric disorder PMDD.
Paxil of 2003 was the November launch in the USA, was never where the product is marketed as UroXatral filed for the latter indication so Paxil CR is.
the only version approved for PMDD.
The older versions of Xatral had never been launched in that market so UroXatral is a new By the end of 2003, Paxil CR had captured product in the US market.
By the end of January approximately 8% of all new US prescriptions 2004, UroXatral had captured an encouraging for SSRI antidepressants.
This share has been 8% of new US prescriptions for this class of largely unaffected by the commencement of drug.
Our partner Sanofi-Synthlabo reports generic competition for Paxil that combined global sales of all versions rose in September by 25% in constant exchange rate terms in 2003 2003.
A prescription written for Paxil CR cannot to a222 million.
Sanofi-Synthlabo continues to be substituted by generic paroxetine because Paxil CR is a clinically differentiated product.
invest in the development of this product with Finally, on our interpretation of the agreement Phase III trials ongoing for a second indication, between GlaxoSmithKline and ourselves, we are acute urinary retention.
This indication has now SkyePharma annual report 2003 been approved in Europe, with a US filing planned for late next year.
DepoCyt is our first sustained-release injectable product to reach the market.
It is a treatment for lymphomatous meningitis, a serious complication of the later stages of non-Hodgkins lymphoma.
DepoCyt, a long-acting formulation of the chemotherapy drug cytarabine, provides effective treatment and only needs an injection every two weeks against every few days for conventional cytarabine.
We are close to completing a Phase IV trial, the results of which should provide the data required to expand the indication to neoplastic meningitis associated with solid tumours, a more common form of this distressing condition.
DepoCyt received FDA approval in 1999 as an orphan drug and is marketed in North America by Enzon Pharmaceuticals.
Sales of DepoCyt in North America in 2003 were around $5 million.
Enzon and we believe that this is well below the peak market potential.
In 2003, we reacquired European marketing rights for DepoCyt from Elan Pharmaceuticals for an unspecified amount and relicensed the product to Mundipharma International Holdings Mundipharma, part of the privately-owned Purdue Mundipharma Napp group of companies.
Mundipharma has recently SkyePharma annual report 2003 review of operations 16 17 on the market continued launched the product as DepoCyte in Europe.
We also converted an existing investment in We have also licensed DepoCyt to Pharmis a private US company e-nutriceuticals into for Brazil.
a strategic stake of 24.4% in Vital Living Inc, a leader in the field of pharmaceutical-grade Solaraze is a topical treatment for actinic nutraceuticals.
We also entered into a contract keratosis, an increasingly common preto develop certain products for Vital Living that cancerous skin condition caused by excessive incorporate our Geomatrix oral controlledexposure to the sun.
Solaraze is marketed by release technology.
Finally our partner Astralis Quintiles Transnational in the USA and by Shire Ltd initiated the Phase I clinical trial in the USA Pharmaceuticals in Europe.
Sales in these of Psoraxine, its novel treatment for psoriasis.
territories were approximately $18 million in This has recently moved into Phase II trials.
Shire has also acquired rights to Solaraze These strategic investments give us exposure to in Australia and certain Pacific Rim territories.
potentially valuable technologies that we would The incidence of actinic keratosis is exceptionally not be able to develop internally without diverting high in Australia so we expect the results of an resources from our mainstream business.
ongoing clinical trial in that country funded by Shire will be helpful in supporting marketing efforts elsewhere.
Strategic developments We invested 2.1 million to acquire an 18.2% stake in Micap plc, a small UK company developing a novel encapsulation technology based on yeast cells.
Originally developed for use in the food industry, there are several potential applications of this technology to oral and topical drug delivery, including taste-masking for unpleasant-tasting medicines and enhanced uptake through mucosal membranes.
SkyePharma has an option over the pharmaceutical applications of Micaps technology.
Micap successfully completed an initial public offering on the UK Alternative Investment market in August 2003.
Products Partner licensee PaxilCR GlaxoSmithKline Xatral OD UroXatral Sanofi-Synthlabo Madopar DR Roche Coruno Therabel Nifedipine Mundipharma Diclofenac Ratiopharm DepoCyt Enzon Mundipharma Nippon-Shinyaku Solaraze Quintiles Shire SkyePharma annual report 2003 Progress in 2003 Two new indications approved for Paxil CR in USA Paxil CR new US prescription share increases to 8% Paxil CR launched in Canada UroXatral launched in USA Sanofi-Synthlabo files Xatral OD for second indication in Europe DepoCyt European rights reacquired and relicensed to Mundipharma DepoCyt licensed to Pharmis for Brazil DepoCyt Phase IV study completes enrolment Solaraze Phase IV study completes enrolment Strategic stake in Micap Strategic stake in Vital Living SkyePharma annual report 2003 review of operations 18 19 on the way Foradil Certihaler is a new version of Novartis sales and will also manufacture for both parties.
long-acting bronchodilator Foradil formoterol The role of formoterol in asthma therapy should for the relief of bronchoconstriction in asthma and be enhanced by the recent publication of a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD.
major independent study on its use as a routine We developed the multi-dose dry-powder inhaler rescue medication, showing that formoterol device and also the formulation that ensures dose is superior to the widely used short-acting consistency regardless of storage conditions.
These technologies will also be employed in a new agreement we signed with Novartis last DepoMorphine is our new analgesic for the relief year to jointly develop a dry-powder formulation of acute post-operative pain.
Our sustainedof another bronchodilator, QAB149, which release injectable technology means that a single Novartis currently has in Phase II development.
epidural injection immediately before surgery QAB149 appears to be even longer-acting than maintains a therapeutically effective level of formoterol and could be the first once-daily morphine for up to 48 hours the typical period bronchodilator to enter the market.
Novartis filed of peak pain after a major operation.
Results from Foradil Certihaler with the FDA and European Phase III trials in over one thousand patients regulatory authorities in December 2002 and in four different pain models hip arthroplasty, the FDA issued an approvable letter in October major abdominal surgery, caesarean section 2003.
On normal approval timelines, we would and knee surgery confirm that DepoMorphine expect Foradil Certihaler to begin to be approved is at least as safe and effective as conventional during the second half of 2004.
Our clinical has also received its first European approval in investigators also believe that DepoMorphine Switzerland in February and has subsequently will bring significant advantages for patients received additional approvals in Finland and arising from freedom from pain and faster Austria.
Novartis will market Foradil Certihaler recovery times and for hospitals in terms of in Europe but in the US the Foradil franchise has savings in labour and equipment costs and been licensed to Schering-Plough Corporation improvements in resource utilisation.
We filed a commercial decision we welcome given the DepoMorphine with the FDA in July and with latters strong position in the US asthma market.
the European regulatory authorities in November.
The current version of Foradil, using Novartis We would expect to hear the first reaction from own single dose inhaler Aeroliser, had global the FDA in May this year.
North American rights sales in 2003 of approximately $300 million.
to DepoMorphine and a second product, SkyePharma will receive a royalty on product Propofol IDD-D, were licensed to Endo SkyePharma annual report 2003 Pharmaceuticals in December 2002.
In April 2004 we announced the appointment of Medeus Pharma as our European licensee for DepoMorphine, with additional licences in other territories still to come.
Propofol IDD-D is a novel formulation of a widely used injectable anaesthetic and sedative.
Our proprietary microemulsion formulation is designed not to support microbial growth, a recognised problem with current versions, and should provide uninterrupted sedation for 24 hours, making it ideal for the fast-growing intensive care market.
We completed a Phase II Progress in 2003 trial last year and we expect the Phase III trials to start by mid-year.
Propofol IDD-D was FDA issues approvable letter licensed in December 2002 to Endo for North for Foradil Certihaler America.
We expect to license Propofol IDD-D New agreement with Novartis in Europe this year.
to jointly develop QAB149 DepoMorphine filed for approval in US and Europe Propofol IDD-D completed Phase II trial Approved filed products Partner licensee Foradil Certihaler Novartis DepoMorphine Endo Medeus Late stage development Partner licensee Propofol IDD-D Endo SkyePharma SkyePharma annual report 2003 review of operations 20 21 in trials In the oral area, we are conducting clinical studies with US rights retained by SkyePharma.
After asthma products as a package.
We had expected of our once-daily version of the oral Parkinsons successfully completing pharmacokinetic studies, to conclude an agreement by the end of 2003 disease drug Requip ropinirole for our partner Phase III pivotal trials started in the second half but the prospects for this group of products GlaxoSmithKline.
Requip is a dopamine agonist, of 2003.
SkyePharma has also developed at its have justified extending negotiations into 2004. a class of drug increasingly recommended as own expense an HFA-MDI version of the longSeveral parties are competing for this package.
first-line treatment for Parkinsons, but the acting bronchodilator formoterol.
This completed Negotiations of commercial terms have been current version has to be taken three times Phase II trials in 2003, and Phase III trials will completed, and all parties are now concluding a day.
Our once-daily Geomatrix version is not commence shortly.
Under the draft terms of these only more convenient for patients but also reduces agreements, SkyePharma will receive upfront fluctuations in levels of the drug, which should We have also begun clinical trials of our own milestone payments upon signature, additional bring therapeutic benefits.
We commenced the HFA-MDI containing a fixed-dose combination milestone payments on achievement of various Phase III trial in June and expect to file the of formoterol with the inhaled steroid fluticasone.
clinical and commercial targets and a premium product for approval towards the end of 2004.
A single delivery device containing two separate royalty rate.
agents with complementary therapeutic roles We are also developing an undisclosed product steroids are anti-inflammatory whereas In early 2004 we also concluded an agreement for Merck KGaA.
This project, involving our bronchodilators control those attacks that still on another asthma product, in this case an oral oral controlled-release technology, is about to occur brings obvious convenience benefits for drug, zileuton.
This is a potent anti-inflammatory commence Phase III development.
GlaxoSmithKlines Advair combining agent but has the disadvantages of a short halffluticasone with salmeterol, another long-acting life coupled with liver toxicity, requiring patients In addition to our collaboration with Novartis bronchodilator has been very successful, with to undergo regular monitoring of liver function.
on dry-powder inhalers, we are also developing 2003 global sales of $3.7 billion.
Advair was only A four times daily version was marketed in the several asthma drugs in metered-dose aerosol launched in the US in April 2001 and we believe US as Zyflo by Abbott Laboratories.
These widely-used MDIs have our combination could be the third or possibly developed a once-daily version for Abbott which traditionally been powered by chlorofluorocarbon even the second such combination to enter has completed Phase III development for asthma CFC propellant gases but the use of CFCs the US market.
Given the recent publication of but has not been filed.
A new company, Critical is being phased out on environmental concerns.
a major study confirming the benefits of routine Therapeutics, has now licensed zileuton from Replacing CFCs with hydrofluoroalkane HFA use of formoterol and the advantage that Abbott and we will work with Critical Therapeutics alternatives is not straightforward and requires formoterol has over salmeterol in terms of time to develop the product for severe asthma and modification of virtually every component of the to onset of action, we are excited by the potential COPD, indications where the current dearth MDI device and of the formulation of the active of our combination product.
of other therapeutic options suggests the liver drug.
For AstraZeneca we have developed testing requirement will not be a major an HFA-MDI version of their inhaled steroid Because of the growing interest in the respiratory commercial drawback.
Pulmicort budesonide for the European market field, we decided to out-license these three Products Partner licensee Requip GlaxoSmithKline Undisclosed Merck KGaA Formoterol HFA SkyePharma Pulmicort HFA AstraZeneca Zileuton Critical Therapeutics DepoBupivacaine SkyePharma Busulfan SuperGen QAB149 Novartis SkyePharma annual report 2003 DepoBupivacaine is our sustained-release injectable version of bupivacaine, a widely-used local anaesthetic.
The useful anaesthesia period has been extended from 12-18 hours for unmodified bupivacaine to 3-4 days.
This should make the product suitable for the control of postoperative pain in patients who have undergone certain particularly painful out-patient procedures such as knee arthroscopy and laparoscopic surgery.
Currently many day surgery patients have to take extended time off work after discharge because of the level of post-operative pain.
We have now completed a Phase I study.
Our agreement with Endo for North American rights Progress in 2003 to DepoMorphine and Propofol IDD-D includes an option over DepoBupivacaine, on terms Start of Phase III trial of Requip OD that will be negotiated at the conclusion of our in Parkinsons disease Phase II studies.
In Europe bupivacaine is the local anaesthetic most widely used in day surgery Start of Phase III trial for HFA MDI and we are confident of finding high interest in version of AstraZenecas Pulmicort a licence for this product, not only in Europe but also in Japan.
Completion of Phase II trial of HFA MDI version of formoterol New agreement with Critical Therapeutics to develop zileuton Start of Phase I study of DepoBupivacaine SkyePharma annual report 2003 review of operations 22 23 in the lab In 2003 we entered into a new agreement with However, the short half-life of most protein King Pharmaceuticals to develop a once-daily drugs means that injections usually need to be version of its lead product, the antihypertensive given frequently and as injections are unpopular Altace ramipril.
Altace is the leading US with patients, compliance tends to be poor.
angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitor, We have two complementary sustained release with 2003 sales of $527 million.
injectable technologies, DepoFoam and Biosphere, making us well-positioned to add The delivery of protein drugs is an increasingly value to currently marketed proteins and peptides important challenge for the pharmaceutical and to new compounds.
There are already over one hundred of human growth hormone has successfully protein or peptide drugs on the market with completed proof of principle studies and is now many hundreds more in clinical development in early-stage clinical trials.
and this type of drug normally cannot be given orally because proteins will not survive passage Our 2001 strategic collaboration with Astralis Ltd through the digestive system.
Astralis covers the development of Psoraxine, a unique injectable treatment for psoriasis, a chronic skin disorder that affects approximately 3% of the world population.
There is no approved cure for psoriasis and most approved treatments provide only temporary or incomplete relief and may also cause serious side effects.
Given as a course of injections, Psoraxine is a protein that stimulates cells from the patients immune system to reverse the inflammatory process responsible for psoriasis symptoms.
Clinical studies in Venezuela using an early version of Psoraxine involved nearly 3,000 psoriasis patients, the vast majority of whom responded positively with a low level of side effects.
We are working with Astralis to develop a secondgeneration product, now being produced in the USA, and to validate the promising results from Venezuela in US clinical studies that will be used Products Partner licensee Interferon alpha-2b GeneMedix Psoraxine Astralis Formoterol Combi SkyePharma Statin NK-104 Kowa Altace King SkyePharma annual report 2003 as the basis for regulatory submissions and marketing approval.
The US Phase I clinical trials commenced in September 2003 and the Phase II study has recently been initiated.
Conclusion Progress in 2003 Our strategic goal remains the maximisation of returns on products we develop for ourselves Agreement with King Pharmaceuticals and for our partners.
The progress we have to develop once-daily version of Altace made in 2003 and in the current year has been very encouraging and we believe that we can Unnamed partner takes option over continue to reduce our current dependence our pulmonary delivery technology on milestone payments.
Although it was disappointing not to complete the key deals we GlaxoSmithKline licenses pulmonary had expected to conclude in 2003, we have now delivery technology licensed DepoMorphine in Europe on highly satisfactory terms.
We look forward with Biosphere version of human growth confidence to future profitable growth.
hormone enters Phase I clinical trial Michael Ashton Astralis Psoraxine commences Chief Executive Officer US Phase I clinical trial SkyePharma annual report 2003
