Operating Review Sales growth is being driven largely by the substantial uplifts achieved at stores benefiting from our refurbishment programme.
htm We continue to review the performance of every store in the Somerfield estate.
During the year we closed eight stores that, after careful consideration, we felt were unlikely to achieve a satisfactory Sales performance was mixed over the return and converted one store to the Kwik year.
In all we achieved like-for-like growth Save fascia.
of 0.9%, driven largely by the substantial sales uplifts at stores benefiting from our Product offer refurbishment programme.
Somerfields own label offer now accounts for around 1.2 billion of sales.
Marketing and pricing During the year we saw particularly strong Our carefully balanced pricing strategy, growth from our new So good premium focused on the known value items that range and Good Intentions healthy eating customers buy most often, worked well.
range, stimulated by a very active product Our Megadeal promotions also continued development programme and effective to be popular with customers, and we promotions.
Other popular innovations intend to refresh the programme this year.
included our new Bistro chilled ready To enhance value for our regular customers meal range.
we have been trialling a savercard that Own label is no longer the poor relation of gives cardholders access to additional cost branded goods: the market is expanding saving opportunities.
Results in the first 33 Own label accounts for rapidly as retailers compete to develop trial stores have been encouraging, with an attractive offerings in both the value and increase in average basket size and or visit 1.2 bn of sales premium sectors of the market.
Our good, frequency among card users compared better, best strategy aims to offer our with non-card users.
We are now customers enticing, good value products This year we intend to refit extending the trial to a further 104 stores, in three distinct categories.
with a view to national rollout.
100 stores The Makes Sense range focuses on value Stores for money with well designed packaging We substantially increased our investment that is attractive to customers.
After a Savercard trial extended to in refitting stores to the new Somerfield successful launch in August 2002, the format.
During the year we completed 59 104 stores range continues to perform well.
refits, bringing the total to 95.
A further 30 The Good Intentions range provides a stores benefited from lower-cost healthier option without compromising on makeovers to improve the environment for taste or quality.
The range is being customers and staff.
We have now recommended by Good Food Magazine.
constantly reviewed and developed in improved a total of 145 stores in this way, Our pursuit of excellence was rewarded at response to very positive customer and these will eventually be upgraded to Novembers Quality Food and Drink Awards, feedback.
the new format as the refit programme where Somerfield won silver awards in 13 progresses.
The So good range, offering food and of 22 categories and So good products were placed first in three categories.
drink of exceptional quality, achieved sales of approximately 33 million last year and Instore bakeries have proved popular with has grown to over 280 lines, including customers, generating sales uplifts cheeses, French cocoa-dusted truffles and averaging 14%.
We have now introduced steam cuisine meal solutions such as the them in all but 64 of our stores, offering Chicken Carbonara Steamer recently up to 142 fresh-baked lines.
8 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 Facts At Novembers Quality Food and Drink Awards, Somerfield won silver awards in 13 of 22 categories.
So good products were also placed first in three categories.
Customer service Market research confirms that customers recognise the continuing improvement in our service.
They particularly praise our Twos Company programme, which promises that if more than two customers are queuing to pay we will open another till and this policy is now well embedded in the way we work.
On-shelf product availability is a key factor in customer satisfaction.
The steady enhancement of our supply chain has helped us to maintain the momentum of improvement, with availability averaging 96% during the year.
Staff morale and training are crucial to customer service.
Research shows that our investment in store staff has improved morale.
We have reduced staff turnover, although it is still higher than we would wish.
During the year we completed the rollout of the new store staff uniforms, which have helped to improve the ambience of our stores and have proved very popular with staff.
Outlook This year we will reinvest some of our profits in keener prices to accelerate sales growth, supported by the store refurbishment programme.
We will also mount more aggressive seasonal promotions throughout the year.
The additional cost of price and promotional investment will be offset by increased sales.
The refurbishment programme is gathering momentum we intend to refit up to 100 stores this year.
Together with the refits completed in the past year, these developments will provide a boost to sales growth and profitability.
Bill Williams Managing Director, Somerfield Business Unit Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 9 Operating Review Kwik Save now has a clearly defined and thoroughly tested new retail format which will generate substantial and sustained sales improvement as we roll it out nationally.
htm improvement in our supply chain, we have increased the frequency of deliveries to Facts stores and replaced pallet deliveries with roll cages throughout the estate.
In the 14 trial stores the Kwik Save now has a clearly defined and Stock losses: These had become a impact of refitting has thoroughly tested new retail format which worsening problem.
We have stepped-up will generate substantial and sustained been considerable: sales security, halted the deterioration and sales improvement as we roll it out uplifts have ranged from established an improving trend.
Like-for-like sales growth was 13% to 55%.
Ranging and choice: We are increasing 1.2% for the year as a whole which the space devoted to fresh foods, ready reflected the difficulties experienced in the meals, and health and beauty products.
However, the refit While increasing the number of food lines, driven store regeneration programme is including our Simply and Kwik Save own aimed at accelerating sales growth.
label ranges, we are taking a more Keen pricing is critical to Kwik Saves Getting back to fundamentals selective approach to non-food lines.
The new ranges have Kwik Save has a strong brand heritage, but are withdrawing from clothing but will helped sharpen our value positioning and in recent years research had shown that it maintain an offer on electrical goods, we have also ensured that our promotions was not fully meeting customers concentrating on promotional and when play a more effective role in delivering a expectations.
This was due partly to the its gone its gone programmes where we balanced offer.
appearance and layout of the stores, and can offer exceptional value.
partly to the way they had been operated.
We intend to maintain a strongly The choice of goods at Kwik Save stores competitive position, particularly in the In the second half of the year a had not kept pace with customer categories that we know are most strengthened Kwik Save management expectations.
We needed a clear three-tier important to our customers, under the team identified and began to address the choice, offering leading brands, a good banner of Low prices for life.
Keen pricing operational issues that were preventing quality own label range and a cheapest on is the theme of the new Price-Less Kwik Save from achieving its full potential.
display alternative for everyday essentials.
advertising campaign that started in May.
These included store standards, product In January 2003 we launched Simply, our availability and ranging.
It was important to Customer service: Our store staff play an new cheapest on display range.
This deal with all these fundamentals before essential part in our relationship with already includes around 140 lines and will committing to heavy investment across customers.
Over the past couple of years grow to some 200 by the end of this year.
the Kwik Save store estate.
we have improved pay structures, It replaced an assortment of tertiary brands conditions and communication with store Transforming the business with a coherent and attractively packaged staff and we continue to invest in The transformation programme is still range and within three months was selling improved training to enhance customer under way, but we are pleased with the at an annualised rate of approximately service.
To raise the quality of store pace and quality of change so far, in all the 60 million.
Sales growth has greatly management we have launched new Kwik critical areas.
exceeded expectations, and we now expect Save Academy training programmes and On-shelf availability: We have made a to generate annualised sales of around reintroduced performance-based store major effort to improve performance, and 100 million this year.
to measure availability more rigorously.
We In early March we began introducing a Retail format: Work to develop a new are making good progress but still have mid-priced range of Kwik Save own label format for Kwik Save stores has been some way to go: overall availability is products.
This is achieving sales uplifts of continuing since we opened our first new currently running at 96%, against a target up to 30%, of which half is incremental, concept store in Manchester, in November of 97%.
As part of the continuing with a relatively small impact on sales of 2001.
The concept was substantially other brands.
By the year end we had refined and tested in stores of various introduced new products in eight sizes across the country.
In the first categories, and we expect to have some regeneration trial stores the investment 1,000 lines covering most categories by the end of April 2004.
10 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 Capital investment in 50 stores by December 2003 of 35 million Our own brand Simply annualised sales 60 million Simply range has 140 product lines costs were relatively high but better than expected sales uplifts meant that the returns were still very acceptable.
The new concept is brighter, fresher and more colourful than the traditional no frills Kwik Save.
Layouts are more logical and easier to shop, with new shelving and refrigeration units.
The space devoted to fresh food concessions is greatly increased.
In the 14 trial stores the impact of refitting has been strong with sales uplifts ranging from 13% to 55%.
We are confident that the sales uplifts can be sustained over time, so have begun a nationwide rollout across our estate.
We aim to refit approximately 50 stores for around 35 million by December 2003, with the option to accelerate the programme in 2004.
At the same time we are taking a more rigorous view of store performance.
Last year we closed 33 stores where we saw no prospect of achieving satisfactory returns.
The proceeds from disposals will be reinvested into the store regeneration programme.
Outlook Kwik Save is regaining pride in itself and the confidence of price-conscious customers.
A combination of the strengthened management team, attractive new ranges and greatly increased investment is re-energising the business and making our offer significantly more attractive.
We expect to see the return in rising sales and profits this year.
Robin Whitbread Group Buying Director and Managing Director, Kwik Save Business Unit Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 11
