3 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives Operating Review operating profit for 2003 was down 55 per cent, however operating Overview Our results for the year were affected by the challenging conditions profit in the second half of 2003 improved by 71 per cent sequentially over the first half.
Return on sales for the group for 2003 reduced to in the global telecoms market and the generally weak market conditions worldwide with turnover of 466.2 million and operating 5.7 per cent from 9.8 per cent in 2002. profit of 36.0 million down 17 per cent and 29 per cent, respectively, 2003 saw further reductions in capital spending of some 20 per cent compared with 2002.
However our performance in the second half of by our network equipment manufacturer NEM and network service 2003 saw a sequential increase in both turnover and operating profit provider NSP customers.
Against this background we have been over the first half reecting a modest increase in activity levels.
Due able to maintain our market position by providing customers with to a strong focus on cash management we generated 62.8 million the products and services they need to support the development of of free cash before the cash cost of exceptional items.
Net debt has next-generation equipment and packet-based services and by enabling been signicantly reduced to 57.5 million at the year end compared them to deploy and assure these technologies more economically with 161.8 million at the end of 2002 through cash generated by and efficiently.
Quarterly order intake in the Performance Analysis the businesses and the proceeds from the sale of the WAGO joint division has increased sequentially since the first half reecting the venture.
We have maintained our commitment to product modest improvement in activity levels and the normal seasonality development, investing 66.0 million or 14 per cent of turnover in of the business.
Due to the lower levels of spending and change 2003 2002 77.7 million and 14 per cent.
in ordering patterns by the US incumbent local exchange carriers ILECs the Service Assurance divisions order book declined from Review of Operations Communications $59.2 million 36.8 million at the end of 2002 to $44.4 million 25.0 million at the end of 2003.
First Second Annual half half change million 2003 2003 2003 2002 % We have remained committed to our investment in product development throughout the industry downturn and this year Turnover was no exception with 57.8 million or 24 per cent of Spirent Performance Analysis 71.3 77.4 148.7 184.0 19 Communications turnover 2002 66.2 million and 21 per cent Service Assurance 46.2 45.5 91.7 131.4 30 being invested to maintain our position in important next-generation Communications group 117.5 122.9 240.4 315.4 24 technologies.
Key areas where we have been investing include: Operating profit broadband access technologies, such as gigabit and 10-gigabit Performance Analysis 0.5 3.9 4.4 10.0 56 Ethernet and digital subscriber line DSL : voice-over-IP VoIP : Service Assurance 4.6 4.8 9.4 20.8 55 Internet Protocol version 6 IPv6 : Internet infrastructure and web security testing: and third generation 3G wireless technologies.
Communications group 5.1 8.7 13.8 30.8 55 Our continued investment in product development resulted in the Return on sales per cent launch during the year of a number of new products which were the Performance Analysis 0.7 5.0 3.0 5.4 first of their kind or capability.
We received a number of awards and Service Assurance 10.0 10.5 10.3 15.8 industry recognition of our achievements with our Avalanche and Communications group 4.3 7.1 5.7 9.8 Reector 2200 products and a 10-gigabit Ethernet test module being among InfoWorld magazines readers preferred products for The results for the Communications group for 2002 and the first half of 2003 have 2003.
Our eld test products were also winners in the Customer been restated to reect the transfer of our eld test activities from the Performance Delight category in the BT Investing in Excellence Awards 2003.
Analysis to the Service Assurance division.
Our Advanced Test Program continues to help maintain our position As anticipated, the telecoms market remained challenging at the leading edge of technology focusing on test trials run by throughout 2003.
Spirent Communications turnover was down university and independent industry test labs and the technical 24 per cent compared with 2002, but turnover for the second half media.
These activities support the strength of our Tested with of 2003 was up 5 per cent sequentially compared with the first half Spirent designation which customers use to demonstrate that due to modestly improved levels of activity.
Compared with 2002, Notes Operating profit, return on sales and headline earnings per share are used by the Group as key measures of operating performance and are stated before the effect of goodwill amortisation and exceptional items so that period on period comparisons are not distorted.
Free cash ow, cash ow before acquisitions, disposals, equity dividends and nancing, is also a key measure.
Results for 2002 and the first half of 2003 have been restated to reect the effect of adopting FRS 17 and UITF 38.
Operating profit and return on sales as referred to in the text are stated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
4 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives Operating Review continued their products have been part of one of the industrys most respected Our customer base for this division remains broadly spread and independent test programmes.
Customers are increasingly demanding includes some of the largest NEMs and NSPs worldwide.
We have more consulting, training and support services due to constraints benefited from the presence we established in China in 2002 and on their resources and we have responded to this need by offering our increased sales and marketing efforts throughout Asia.
In Europe, TM a comprehensive suite of services under the ServiceEdge name.
a continuing focus on the development and roll-out of DSL networks and services by customers helped sales of our broadband access test We have continued to broaden our presence internationally.
2003 equipment and we saw encouraging interest in our web applications saw the European launch of our web applications and security testing and security testing products.
products as well as wireless test systems for customers who are using wideband CDMA W-CDMA technology for the advancement of 3G While turnover for the year reduced overall we saw improvements services and networks.
We continued to make progress in Asia where in sales from our web applications and security testing activities and we are associated with some of the leading telecoms technology an increase in sales to the government sector.
Growth in data trafc institutes and companies.
continues to drive the need for increased broadband access and our broadband access solutions continue to represent the largest part Our strategy continues to be to advance next-generation technologies of this divisions sales.
We have been able to capitalise on the trend and services: to deliver integrated, easy-to-use, end-to-end customer towards VoIP and have launched several new products that are aimed solutions: to increase our presence internationally: and to extend our at this growth area.
Interest in IPv6, which provides broader address products into web services and applications testing for the enterprise space for the next phase of the Internet, was also good this year as sector.
By remaining at the forefront of key emerging communications the technology moves closer to deployment.
technologies and by leveraging the benets of combining our test and monitoring capabilities we believe we are well placed to serve In the wireless space, we are benefiting from our acquisition in 2002 the future needs of our customers.
of W-CDMA expertise and have built on our established reputation in CDMA-2000 where we remain a market leader in the US.
During Performance Analysis the year we launched a W-CDMA network emulator for testing the Our Performance Analysis division develops solutions for testing the interoperability of mobile handsets and networks and a version of performance, functionality and conformance to industry standards our successful CDMA position location test system which we plan to of network equipment and networks themselves.
This is achieved extend to support W-CDMA.
In the CDMA sector, the ability to test by simulating voice and data trafc and large-scale networks, and applications and services has become more of a focus and we launched by creating real-world conditions in the laboratories of NEMs, NSPs, several products in 2003 aimed at testing the performance of mobile enterprises and government departments.
By subjecting equipment data services and enhanced voice services such as push-to-talk.
and networks to impairments and stresses customers can ensure that the equipment or services they are about to launch or deploy Service Assurance will actually withstand real-world conditions thus reducing the Our Service Assurance division provides hardware and software commercial risks inherent in developing or adopting new products.
systems that enable NSPs to test and assure remotely the broadband leased line, DSL, wireless, optical and managed IP services they provide Due to the drop in spending by NEMs and NSPs globally during to residential and enterprise customers.
Our products include operations 2003, turnover in this division fell 19 per cent compared with 2002 support systems OSS software, remote test probes, network access to 148.7 million.
Operating profit for 2003 was down 56 per cent systems and consulting and technical services.
We also supply portable compared with 2002 at 4.4 million.
However our performance in systems for fault identication and testing of copper telephone lines the second half of 2003 showed an improvement with turnover in the eld.
Our systems help service providers cut their operational up 9 per cent and operating profit up by 3.4 million due to a costs by automating and centralising their network testing and modest increase in activity levels in the latter part of the year.
service assurance processes, reducing the need for expensive physical Return on sales for the second half recovered to 5.0 per cent, but intervention and mitigating against poor customer service with faster was 3.0 per cent for the year compared with 5.4 per cent in 2002. response times to problems.
5 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 We are a leading provider of monitoring systems to the US ILECs Network Products continuing broadband service roll-out programmes.
However during First Second Annual the year our core customers continued to reduce their overall capital half half increase million 2003 2003 2003 2002 % spending and as a result sales were adversely affected with turnover for the division declining 30 per cent to 91.7 million compared with Turnover 85.9 88.5 174.4 164.7 6 131.4 million in 2002.
While we continue to be a leading supplier Operating profit 8.1 8.6 16.7 15.0 11 of monitoring systems for DSL services, systems for digital leased Return on sales per cent 9.4 9.7 9.6 9.1 line services aimed at the enterprise market remain the largest part of our Service Assurance business, accounting for approximately Our Network Products business provides customers with innovative half the sales in 2003.
Operating profit of 9.4 million for 2003 solutions for fastening, identication, protection and connectivity was down 55 per cent for the year but was better than anticipated in electrical and communications networks under the global brand in the second half at 4.8 million.
Return on sales for 2003 fell to HellermannTyton.
Our ability to work closely with customers to 10.3 per cent from 15.8 per cent in 2002.
In order to capitalise on develop value added products allows us to maintain our competitive potential synergies we have transferred our eld test business into position, gain new customers and enables us to benefit from any the Service Assurance division.
At the end of the year actions were future recovery in our markets.
taken to extend our existing capabilities in the IP services sector which we believe represents an important growth opportunity.
The business delivered a sound performance in 2003 with turnover up 6 per cent at 174.4 million and operating profit up 11 per cent During the year we expanded our product range with test probes at 16.7 million compared with 2002.
Turnover in the second half and OSS for next-generation DSL variants which allow higher speed of 2003 was up 3 per cent on a sequential basis which is a positive broadband access for the residential and enterprise markets.
We indicator given that the second half of the year is usually weaker also announced a development effort and strategic partnership with than the first.
Return on sales at 9.6 per cent in 2003 was up over Alcatel under which Spirents test technology will be incorporated into the previous year.
Alcatels broadly deployed ASAM Advanced Services Access Manager products in North America.
A number of our existing customers have The main improvement in turnover over 2002 came from our announced the introduction of next-generation IP services and we European automotive sales where we have increased market have won initial orders in this market for gigabit Ethernet, managed penetration.
Sales in Japan by our associate company were strong local area network and IP virtual private network services.
We intend and our South American businesses saw a recovery in turnover and to expand our capabilities and product functionality in this area in continue to be profitable.
We have also extended our product line through the launch TM of FieldOp, an operations management solution that integrates The automotive sector remains our most important with sales to service assurance and workforce management capabilities onto a this market accounting for 34 per cent of turnover in 2003 compared single platform for use in the eld.
Despite global vehicle production declining modestly year on year, the trend to replace metal parts with plastic In order to assist customers with the integration, acceptance and and the increasing complexity of electronic systems within cars has operation of hardware and software sourced from various suppliers, resulted in more of our products being specified on new vehicle we continue to partner with providers of other network devices and platforms than on their predecessors.
OSS to validate the interoperability of our products.
Our range of automated systems, including Autotools, continues to We believe there is opportunity to expand this divisions product generate pull-through sales of the high volume consumables required, offering internationally and we have made encouraging progress in such as cable ties and identication labels and markers.
We now have Asia where we are currently in trials with some of the largest NSPs a broad installed base of these systems at cable and wire harness in the region and have already won initial orders.
We continue with manufacturers worldwide.
our marketing efforts in Europe.
6 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives Operating Review continued TM Sales of our local area network connectivity products were lower In our aerospace business, sales of GOLD, a leading contractor in the UK compared with 2002 reecting the continued decline in logistics support software system to the military market, were the market but we were able to continue to increase sales in the US.
up compared with last year largely due to increased sales to The market for our broadband products remained depressed due to leading defence manufacturers.
The continued weak conditions TM continuing cuts in spending by telecoms service providers worldwide.
in the civil aviation market affected sales of AuRA, our groundbased maintenance, repair and overhaul software system.
Our focus on customer support and service is an important aspect of our success and we were delighted to be recognised as a Gold Supplier Dividend for Royal Mail who we supply via an advanced e-procurement system.
As advised last year we will not pay a dividend in respect of the year to 31 December 2003.
Future dividend policy will be kept under Systems review by the Board and will depend on the trading outlook and the availability of cash and distributable reserves.
Our borrowing terms First Second Annual half half increase prohibit us from paying a dividend until certain financial requirements million 2003 2003 2003 2002 % are satisfied.
Turnover 21.0 25.6 46.6 43.0 8 The Board Operating profit 2.5 3.3 5.8 4.4 32 In October 2003 we announced the appointment of Andrew Given as Return on sales per cent 11.9 12.9 12.4 10.2 a non-executive director.
Andrew was previously Deputy Chief Executive of Logica plc and currently serves as the senior independent nonFigures in the above table relate to ongoing businesses only executive director on the boards of VT Group plc and Spectris plc.
On an ongoing business basis the Systems group saw an 8 per cent We also announced the appointment of Fred DAlessio to the Board increase in turnover to 46.6 million and a 32 per cent increase in as a non-executive director in January 2004.
Fred has substantial operating profit to 5.8 million compared with 2002.
The improvement experience in telecoms having spent over 30 years in the industry.
was mainly in PG Drives Technology, our power controls business.
Their experience of international technology companies will be of During 2003 we completed the divestment of our Aviation Information great benefit to the Group and we look forward to working with them.
Solutions AIS businesses from within the Systems groups aerospace activities for net proceeds of 3.2 million in cash.
Paul Cheng retired from the Board with effect from the end of 2003 and we would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his PG Drives Technology is a leading supplier of power control systems valuable contribution during his tenure as a non-executive director.
for powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters and while we continue It was announced on 25 February 2004 that I had informed to experience pricing pressure in the market we have been successful in mitigating this through lower-cost designs, materials cost reductions the Board of my intention to retire as Chief Executive of Spirent with effect from the end of June 2004.
A formal process to nd a and increased volumes.
The continuing success of our established VSI systems for powered wheelchairs and our S-Drive systems for successor is under way.
Since joining the Company in 1995 I have worked to develop Spirent from a broadly based electronics group into mobility scooters enabled us to increase customer penetration and win new business in the mobility vehicles market during the year.
Spirent now has three global operating groups with leading positions in their served markets.
During 2003 we also made further progress in the small industrial The Company has a strong management team, a highly experienced vehicles market, with the I-Drive and TRIO products launched this Board and is in good shape to move forward so I believe now is the year being well received by customers, and we intend to make further right time to hand over to a successor to enable Spirent to continue investments to grow this part of the business.
7 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Our People Outlook In yet another challenging year our employees have made great We have seen a satisfactory start to 2004, which may indicate efforts to generate sales and control costs.
It is proof of our employees the beginning of a recovery in telecoms capital spending, although determination and commitment that we have been able to maintain we remain cautious in relation to its extent.
We have positioned our our leading positions in the markets we serve.
I would like to thank all Performance Analysis activities to benefit from increases in customer our people for their contribution to these results and it is because of investment in next-generation equipment.
In the Service Assurance their continued efforts that we can look to the future with optimism.
division, performance will pick up as and when next-generation networks and services become more widely deployed.
Our Network Products Corporate Social Responsibility group is expected to benefit from any strengthening in its markets.
A strong sense of corporate social responsibility CSR has always been part of the Spirent culture.
We understand that our reputation and future success in part rest on our attitudes and responsibility to the people around us and the world in which we live and we take these responsibilities seriously.
Best practice in relation to CSR is continually evolving but current trends look for annual improvements in CSR systems, monitoring and reporting and we have made progress during the year in a number of areas including the publication of our Nicholas K Brookes Ethics and Environmental Policies on the Spirent website.
