SSL International plc 08 Operating Review Annual Report 2003 Building on the popularity of the new Easy-on range launched in 2002, three new products over the past year were launched.
Based upon extensive consumer research, Durex the new product trio was developed Creative Flair to liven up safer sex.
Durex Durex is market leader in branded Performa is a condom coated condoms worldwide and we intend on the inside with benzocaine, to build on our expertise to ensure a mild anaesthetic to prolong loveDurex becomes the number one making for longer-lasting pleasure: Innovation condom in every possible market Durex Sensation has raised dots around the globe.
for greater stimulation, and Durex Close Fit is a narrower condom Innovation is at the heart of every The success of the Perfect giving a firmer hold.
aspect of our approach to business in Product Portfolio programme, Durex Marketing and Promotion the 21st century from new product which rationalised the global Targeting the youth market Complementing innovative new development to business systems and product range in order to exploit 16 24-year-olds is a fundamental product development, the market development.
manufacturing synergies and ensure element of the current marketing marketing and promotional support brand recognition in every market, strategy, recruiting new consumers behind the Durex range is highly This willingness to challenge has given us renewed flexibility with at the start of their sexual activity.
creative, fun-filled and successful attitudes and procedures has which to develop new products.
Another key element is adding fun in building sales and market share.
helped to sharpen our business enhancing pleasure and building The sperm character television efficiency.
on the play aspect of love-making.
and media advertising has won Innovation in new product More and more consumers are a wide variety of awards at UK development has played moving into the enhanced pleasure and European level.
Examples a key role in developing category, buying premium condoms of localised marketing initiatives market share.
that offer far more than simple include Hong Kong and Taiwan barrier protection.
organising celebrity-backed Durex Fun Rides: Sperm Men characters An increasing amount of investment making public appearances in New is being put into the new product Zealand, and Durex-branded teen development pipeline, encouraging wear merchandise for colleges innovation and creative flair to and schools across the Americas.
differentiate Durex from any other condom competitor.
Among the new products currently being developed are a range of Play lubricants designed to revolutionise the lubricant category plus a scintillating range of chocolateflavoured condoms for added sensory pleasure!
Top Durex sperm characters make striking Creativity is crucial to the New Product appearances at a huge variety of Development Programme.
promotional events around the world.
Bottom Wide-ranging expertise in Research and Development is a major strength of the Group.
Durex As global brand leader in condoms, Durex is not only consolidating its market penetration worldwide but also shows excellent potential, for future development.
Operating Review continued SSL International plc 10 Annual Report 2003 Durex Sex Survey Shareholder Value This years Global Sex Survey the seventh to date was the most successful ever, providing a wealth We are committed to maximising of useful marketing information shareholder value with a clear and a global platform for PR and Durex Social Marketing focus on continuous improvement promotions.
For the first time, As the worlds leading condomof business fundamentals and fulfilling the survey was carried out on-line, maker, Durex accepts its need the potential of our brand portfolio.
achieving a record number of to play a key part in stopping replies almost 50,000 from unwanted pregnancies and Taking cost out of the business is 22 participating countries Educating Everybody eliminating sexual disease in boosting our operating margins.
Some countries Educating people about safe, developing countries.
The Group Marketing investment is driving held cybercafe events in order to responsible sex and the dangers is actively involved in a wide variety business growth for our key brands.
Carried out of AIDS and Sexually Transmitted of social marketing programmes, in tandem with the relaunch of Infections STIs is a responsibility particularly an educational project the Durex.
com website, this global faced by Durex in a widespread in Brazil where it has helped local marketing initiative was a triumph education programme.
Global boys develop their own brand of for all concerned.
The new-look programmes have been developed, condom.
Long-term, such work will Durex website is one of the largest such as the Durex.
com website help to raise the level of awareness of its type in the world, now and local initiatives such as the of Durex and its qualities in featuring 49 localised country askdurex.
com website aimed developing marketplaces.
at young people in America.
In China, where condom advertising is restricted, a new Chinese Durex website is not only providing important educational information but is a key element of product marketing in a fast-developing marketplace.
Top New packaging for Biogel gloves enhances the ranges reputation for quality.
Bottom Computer-controlled pharmaceutical production meets tight regulatory guidelines.
Making an eye-catching appearance at a carnival in China, this condom character broadens the appeal to a younger generation.
Biogel Now well-established as the market-leading surgical glove, Biogel continues to evolve with pace-setting new product developments, setting global standards in performance and quality.
Operating Review continued SSL International plc 12 Annual Report 2003 The key footcare categories of blister and corn have seen the launch of next generation plaster technology.
The new Hydra-gel plasters are transparent and Scholl discreet to wear, using intelligent Brand Building Scholl Innovation gel, which creates the ideal healing Scholl has an unrivalled heritage environment for blisters and softens as the foot specialist.
Now the skin to aid corn removal.
Providing Creative flair in our marketing Group is building on the global superior cushioning protection, The Scholl Flight Travel compression is going hand-in-hand with a brands pedigree in treating foot Scholl Hydra-gel plasters offer brand is being supported by SSLs fresh impetus in new product problems to develop a new range instant pain and pressure relief.
active involvement in a programme development, creating new of consumers loyal to the brand of research and clinical studies into business opportunities in areas for everyday footcare for health In addition, re-engineered foot the cause, condition and prevention where we have renowned expertise.
files offer ergonomic improvements of DVT.
One of the most significant in a stylish design for both the studies so far, Lonflit 4, concluded Continued investment in Much of the existing Scholl new Scholl Callous File and the that Scholl Flight Socks reduce the marketing is showing excellent foot skincare range has been new Scholl Smoothing File.
incidence of DVT and help control returns through new sales growth.
Three new products oedema in low-medium risk Our pedigree of research and complement the portfolio and Scholl Flight Socks subjects on long haul flights.
development skills is proving its capitalise on the latest consumer Scholl Flight Socks were a first-toContinued marketing and worth through an exciting new trend for express footcare for the market launch for SSL, developed promotion of the brand will product development pipeline woman in a hurry.
Scholls launch in direct response to consumer ensure sales growth worldwide across the brands.
of the Express lines for feet meets concern regarding the risks of as more consumers realise the the growing trend for convenient, Deep Vein Thrombosis DVT benefits of the concept.
multi-tasking solutions, as seen on long haul flights and the with other skincare categories.
The Gelactiv range of Scholl The new Scholl Foot Smooth footwear continues to win major Shower Scrub is designed for use Launched initially in the UK, where new listings in leading retail outlets as part of a daily shower regime, it enjoyed immediate success the around the world.
Australia has backed by the new Scholl Express product has also enjoyed similar enjoyed particular success recently Conditioning Foot Spray, a light success throughout its global rollwith a fashion promotion targeting moisturising lotion to soften the out this year.
The new Scholl Deo Compact Spray is a handyBuilding on the success of creating sized spray deodorant to target its own category, the brand now women on the go.
has a new generation cotton-feel Flight Sock, which was launched in March, featuring new innovative fibre technology, giving improved look and feel, with anti-microbial action to keep feet fresh.
The brand is also being extended with the launch of a new Knee Highs range, which is specifically Top Scholls popular product sampling positioned for the female consumer.
sessions during Ladies Day at Available in black and natural, Royal Ascot were a great success.
the new Knee Highs range Bottom combines the appropriate level SSL Austria organised sponsorship of of compression with the design the Vienna Marathon with the muscle features of female hosiery.
Scholls range of health and beauty products for feet is creating new business opportunities for the brand.
Scholl Building on a heritage of brand leadership in caring for foot problems, Scholl is creating exciting new benchmarks in everyday care for healthy, beautiful feet.
Operating Review continued SSL International plc 14 Annual Report 2003 Building on the reputation of its Cuprofen brand, SSL launched a new version of the Ibuprofen painkiller, specifically for children.
This marks the Groups entry into one of the fastest growing OTC Remegel indigestion remedy and sectors childrens Ibuprofen Resolve hangover cure continue with the aim of picking up 20 to lead the way in these categories, per cent of the market sector.
supported by consumer advertising A 150ml size was launched in and instore promotions.
Remegel, OTC January, boosting sales still further, which saw the successful launch The OTC portfolio is being improved, and Cuprofen for Children has just of the Summer Fruit version in developing new products for been declared the preferred brand all major accounts, is the only categories where SSL has specialist for dispensing by Lloyds and Moss traditional indigestion product expertise and taking advantage of pharmacy chains in the UK growing in the market.
Resolve acquisitions to build critical mass boosting business across 2,000 won the Christmas battle to be Organisational and expand overseas markets.
pharmacies on top of the brands the best-selling hangover cure success in retail.
for the second year running and Strength Particular successes have been is the fastest growing brand in the in categories where SSL excels In the headlice category, Full Marks stomach upset hangover market.
headlice treatment, analgesics, Mousse is the number one brand We have a stable and effective indigestion remedies and supported by a successful television Meltus cough syrup received management team with an cough syrups.
advertising campaign with sales heavy promotion in the UK grocery excellent mix of skills and up 21.4 per cent year-on-year, trade, achieving over 1,500 new expertise for todays business In the painkiller category, SSL 3 million ahead of its nearest rival.
distribution points in the countrys needs.
New efficiencies and now has the two fastest growing SSL also has the number two brand largest stores as a result.
skills have been introduced to analgesic brands in the UK.
One Derbac plus the Natruclear range strengthen the global operation.
of the strongest OTC products on to maximise the wet-combing Woodwards Gripe Water continues the market is Paramol, which was technique for ongoing detection.
to be the worlds most popular Business systems have been relaunched last April, changing This means the Group can offer babys gripe water and is a highly overhauled to maximise shape from tablet to capsule to a complete headlice detection successful global OTC brand.
Recent productivity for future growth.
make it easier to swallow.
examples of innovative promotion Manufacturing flexibility ensures have continued to grow since.
include the Far East capitalising cost efficiency and excellent Syndol is a significant brand, on a Hong Kong movie, Mighty customer service.
which is currently seeing success Baby with instore promotions, following a second round of its competitions and appearances television advertising.
campaign in October saw a 20 per cent increase in sales.
A five-week national television campaign in March April this year exceeded all expectations, with sales in Boots peaking at 400 per cent growth.
Training programmes ensure best practice in management procedure.
Nationwide television advertising in the SSL offers a comprehensive headlice UK for painkiller Syndol has seen sales treatment and prevention product portfolio.
Resolve Just one of a growing portfolio of UK market-leading OTC medicines, Resolve continues to grow in value, backed by creative marketing campaigns.
Operating Review continued SSL International plc 16 Annual Report 2003 Regent Infection Control Biogel Surgical Gloves Sales of Biogel surgical gloves have continued to develop the European markets, helped by the recent launch of three new products.
The Wound Management innovations are set to consolidate Sales of Avance wound dressings the Groups number one position and Lyofoam have performed very in the global surgical glove well over the past year.
Sales of marketplace and have been Tubifast the bandage for wetdeveloped in direct response Hibi wrapping to control atopic eczema to market demand.
The integration of Hibi manufacturing have also performed well, thanks into Peterlee from AstraZeneca to new sizes of bandage and an Biogel Skinsense PI.
made is now complete after a longer than intensive marketing programme from the latest synthetic material expected transition period, which to develop a category that SSL has polyisoprene, is said to be the involved regulatory procedures made its own.
People Power nearest there is to natural rubber to bring the product licences uplatex, ideal for those with a known to-date.
A new range of distinctive An exciting new development for or suspected allergy to natural product packaging has been the Tubifast range has been the Our employees are one of our rubber latex.
launched, with the Group maximising recent launch of Tubifast Garments best global assets.
We are committed every opportunity to promote itself a range of ready-to-wear clothing to training and developing individuals Biogel Optifit Super Sensitive as the hand hygiene expert for the for children, to enable parents to to reach their full potential, enabling has a straight cuff for a tighter health professional.
New medical avoid the hassle of trying to keep them to add value to the business.
fit, developed in response to marketing teams have been a child still for the time it takes to cuff slippage and roll down established in many countries, wet-wrap using bandages.
The Factory-based training and from increased use of synthetic Initiatives have included sponsoring design concept was developed and development has created a surgical gowns.
the first-ever handwashing seminar manufactured in-house at Oldham, multi-skilled workforce to in Hong Kong to promote Hibiscrub: which has the capability to make an maximise site productivity.
The third product is for the UK launching Hibi towelettes for adult range of garments if required.
Investment in management market, a straight-fingered Biogel the health professional working training continues, to create Indicator Underglove, which is in a domestic environment, and Marigold new generational skills for preferred in the UK to the curved developing Hibiderm handcream The Marigold brand comprises future business growth.
finger format of the USA and for health workers.
housegloves sold through the Continental Europe.
consumer distribution channels A new Regent Antiseptics alongside our consumer products website has been developed and also a comprehensive range for health professionals of industrial gloves used for www.
com protection of workers against to inform and educate hazards such as heat and chemicals.
Award-winning website consultancies Top are utilised to develop flagship product SSL Peterlee employees are and service websites.
experienced in hosting customer visits.
Bottom In-house expertise is nurtured and developed.
Full Marks Full Marks Mousse is the flagship brand in a UK healthcare category that SSL has made its own the treatment of headlice.
Investment in consumer promotions continues to grow the brand and the category.
Operating Review continued SSL International plc 18 Annual Report 2003 Manufacturing The Group is committed to maintaining the highest possible standards of quality and environmental responsibility at all its manufacturing sites, and to Customer Service sourcing its manufacturing in order The UK and Global customer to achieve maximum productivity service improvement programmes and efficiency.
have continued apace, with notable successes including reducing An on-going manufacturing review stock holding to just-in-time ensures the best possible sources requirements: reducing lead times of manufacturing are maintained, and improving efficiencies from providing the flexibility necessary rationalising the distribution to both maintain high standards networks and haulage systems.
of customer service and support Investment has included new Socially new product development.
knitting machines at Oldham Environmental Responsibility to support the growth of Tubifast All sites within the Group are Responsible Recent changes to achieve these bandages for the wet-wrap now operating to consistent ends have included the closure treatment of atopic eczema.
world-class standards on quality of part of the Avanti condom Elsewhere in the UK, a new and environmental issues.
Our SSL embraces good corporate manufacturing process at forum for UK Engineering has latest annual Environmental Report governance and social awareness Cambridge in England, transferring been established to pool ideas gives detailed accounts of some taking seriously its responsibilities production to SSLs joint venture and share expertise.
of the successes over the past as an ethical global business.
condom manufacturer in India, 12 months, with local sites taking which has just celebrated a 50 year Commercial Expansion ownership of their own We are committed to sharing partnership with the Group.
Some Our commercial offices continue requirements and achievements our knowledge with like-minded manufacturing rationalisation to develop and exploit new to ensure international standards organisations, in order to enhance was also undertaken at Oldham opportunities.
SSL New Zealand are maintained.
Our global an individuals everyday life.
in England, and production of the has celebrated its first birthday, approach has simplified systems We set high standards of indigestion remedy Remegel is to be growing business for Durex, Scholl, and procedures and avoids governance across the transferred from the Bootle factory OTC and Medical.
A new SSL duplication of effort.
organisation, exceeding which is closing to SSLs state-ofbusiness has opened in Taiwan, minimum requirements the-art pharmaceutical factory in building on the success of the Hong wherever possible.
Peterlee, which opened last year.
Kong subsidiary to exploit growing consumer demand.
SSL Poland has doubled in size, with new teams of sales and marketing personnel replacing the old structure of commission agents, and SSL France has seen great success from a business reorganisation and development of new channels to meet demand.
Advanced cleanroom facilities at SSLs Malaysian surgical glove manufacturing sites ensure enviable standards of quality and hygiene.
Flexible manufacturing facilities Top maintain efficiency and high A social marketing programme for standards of customer service.
condoms in Brazil is helping to reduce unwanted pregnancies and disease.
Bottom Reducing latex waste in Malaysia is a key element of our environmental responsibility.
Scholl Flight Socks An excellent example of how to create a new market category, Scholl Flight Socks have been a phenomenal business success to date and the product range is ripe for global development.
