S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2003 R EVIEW OF O PERATIONS B OOKS Conditions within the book market remained resilient and Clays was again able to increase sales and market share while further enhancing its excellent reputation for service and quality.
The continued need for faster service and more complex orders has been supported by the investment in additional capacity and the further development of Clays management information systems.
During the last year we invested in additional pre-press, printing and nishing equipment, as well as introducing screen-based work to lists on equipment to improve the ow of timely, accurate and complete management information.
Our continued efforts to drive manufacturing efficiencies whilst improving the service we offer to our customers once again helped to ensure that we successfully produced a significant number of best selling titles.
These included, for Bloomsbury, The Little Friend Donna Tartt, Schotts Original Miscellany Ben Schott and Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix J K Rowling : Life of Pi by Yann Martel, published by Canongate: Man and Wife Tony Parsons and Unless Im Very Much Mistaken Murray Walker for HarperCollins: Living History Hillary Clinton and James Pattersons The Beach House for Headline Publishing: The Shelters of Stone Jean M. Auel published by Hodder Stoughton: Patricia Cornwells Portrait of a Killer for Time Warner Books: Into Temptation Penny Vincenzi for Orion Publishing: A Short History of Nearly Everything Bill Bryson for Transworld Publishers: and, for Penguin, The Autograph Man Zadie Smith, Keane The Autobiography Roy Keane and Taking on the World Ellen MacArthur.
Overall sales growth was achieved from a combination of particularly strong demand for trade hardbacks, success in increasing our share of the non-trade book market and being able to satisfy our customers requirements for post production services such as storage and direct delivery.
D IRECT R ESPONSE Demand from commercial markets was generally weak throughout AND C OMMERCIAL the year, which saw no improvement over the previous years activity.
UK Countering competitive pressure on margins, therefore, offered a considerable challenge.
Despite this we improved our overall performance year-on-year mainly due to improved sales mix and the benets of the restructuring measures we took in 2001 2002.
Our Graphics and Point of Sale businesses performed well despite unexpected delays in accepting the new large format silk screen press at DisplayCraft, the benets from which will now not be fully realised until 6 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2003 2003 2004.
In spite of reduced market volumes in some sectors, Direct Mail showed improved sales performance which supported the expansion of our mailing facilities in Bradford and Romford.
Our sheet fed businesses generally performed very well with strong performances in both sales and profits in the face of intense price competition in local markets.
The performance of the Web businesses was particularly encouraging, benefiting from the rationalisation measures and reinvestment undertaken in the previous year.
Development projects and investments completed in the year included the relocation of our Edenbridge mailing business to Romford: the new silk screen press at Crayford: computer-to-plate facilities for our Bradford web and sheet fed presses and new Docutech personalisation and booklet making facilities in Leeds.
During the year we produced work for CWS, Somereld, The Royal Bank of Scotland, HBOS, Tesco, Grattan, Spar and Dixons.
We continue to sell added value services in addition to printing, particularly to our major customers, who are accounting for a growing proportion of our revenues.
Unfavourable economic conditions in Germany continued to frustrate G ERMANY the actions taken to improve Johler Drucks results.
Weak domestic demand offset the benets of cross-selling from UK sister companies and the installation of its 6-unit web offset press, aimed at achieving better margin sales from more specialist market areas.
Market conditions in the USA failed to improve and the effect of the USA war in Iraq depressed print demand further, with customers delaying and reducing print projects.
Industry utilisation declined and pricing was further depressed reecting reduced activity, particularly towards the end of the year.
We took action to further reduce our costs during the year.
Additional cost reductions will be made as we complete installation of the new division-wide MIS system.
We have completed the consolidation of the Hollywood and Avanti businesses and the two printing plants are now run as a single operational unit.
We plan further automation in our bindery departments and are in the process of establishing a single, consolidated, digital pre-press capability for the division.
We are beginning to offer our 7
