Ive looked after travelling passengers for 10 years now and know that, above all, our customers value good communication.
If services dont run smoothly, they like to be kept informed.
Keeping our passengers happy is crucial to our success.
Chris Pearce Standards Controller UK Bus Operating review 2003 Outside London, total passenger volumes have increased by UK BUS 0.4%.
The trend in passenger volumes varies significantly by Stagecoach continues to be one of the leading UK bus operators, geographical area.
We have initiatives in place to encourage with a 16% share of a highly competitive market.
Our UK Bus further growth and we have been particularly successful in business, the traditional core of the Group, remains a strong increasing volumes in areas where congestion is causing some source of cash flow.
As one of the biggest bus operators in the commuters to switch to using public transport.
UK, we are at the cutting edge in developing new and innovative products and we are committed to playing a key part in Our major operation at Ferrytoll Park and Ride in Fife, Scotland, achieving the Governments objectives of increased use of public which at peak times runs buses every five minutes into transport and greater integration.
Edinburgh, has seen passenger volumes increase by 30% in the Turnover in our UK Bus division has increased by 5.4% to 598.4m past year.
The Scottish Executive has approved additional 2002 567.9m.
Operating profit was 67.0m, compared to investment to double the size of the facility to 1,000 car parking 62.7m in the previous year, and this is after taking account of spaces.
Successful park and ride operations are also running in increases in insurance costs and labour costs, including an increase Cambridge, Canterbury and Exeter.
The operating profit figure is stated after the A new turn-up-and-go network and fleet of 40 easy-access financing element of vehicle operating leases, which amounted to low-floor buses was introduced in Cambridge city centre around 0.5m.
This represents an operating margin of 11.2% 2002 18 months ago and we are still achieving annual passenger 11.0% and reflects the benefits from a wide range of local growth of around 17%.
This has flowed through to on-bus initiatives to grow revenue, despite a continuing fall in the cost of revenue and further development of the rebranded Citi network car ownership.
Across the UK, we have invested in new buses with is planned later this year.
We have seen strong levels of a total capital value of 40.7m during the year to develop our passenger growth in other areas, including Manchester and on-the-road product.
Total passenger volumes across our UK Bus Kingston-upon-Hull.
In London, where we have a 16% share of the market, we have In certain rural areas, where traditional bus services do not increased our fleet size by 10% and recruited 200 more drivers suit the needs of the community, we are working with local in the past year.
Some 88.5% of our London fleet is now low authorities to deliver transport solutions.
Known as demand floor, with a significant proportion of vehicles having been responsive transport, these taxi-bus style services run on a replaced within the last five years.
Passenger growth in London skeleton timetable, and also take pre-booked pick-ups arranged was 8.8% for the year and we have purchased new depot space via call centres, helping to boost social inclusion.
We are already at Stratford for future expansion.
helping run similar services in Strathclyde, Hampshire and Newcastle, with some systems using sophisticated on-board In order to meet the extra demand generated by congestion computers and the latest Global Positioning Systems technology.
charging, we have negotiated improved margins and enlarged contracts to operate buses on behalf of Transport for London Stagecoach is working in partnership with the devolved TfL, introducing 100 new vehicles.
In partnership with TfL, we administrations in Scotland and Wales on the successful launched the UKs first 24-hour, round-the-clock articulated bus operation of the free concessionary fares schemes.
We also service in London in March 2003.
A fleet of 35 state-of-the-art worked in partnership with Manchester City Council and Greater Mercedes bendy buses, each capable of carrying up to Manchester Passenger Transport Executive to deliver an enhanced 140 passengers, is now running through the West End of London.
network for the Commonwealth Games last year.
Over 500,000 Passengers using the route buy tickets in advance from retail passenger journeys were made on the successful free shuttle bus outlets and roadside ticket machines.
This cashless operation not operation to and from the main stadium.
only helps improve journey times, but also provides added Our emphasis continues to be on strong local marketing, security.
simplified fares and ticketing, and improved information, Operating profit of a particular business unit referred to in the operating review including the introduction of online access to timetables for all is operating profit before restructuring costs, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
An increasing number of customers are 8
