Operating Review I am pl I am ple ea ased to r sed to repor eport t a a fur furt ther her y ye ear of ar of pr progr ogre es ss s for Stanley Leisure.
This was achieved despite for Stanley Leisure.
This was achieved despite difficu difficul lt t t tr ra adin ding in the la g in the las st t quar quart ter of er of the the y ye ear in ar in both divisions.
Turnover of over 1 billion and both divisions.
Turnover of over 1 billion and pr profit ofit bef befor ore t e ta ax xation and g ation and goodw oodwiil ll l amor amorti tis sation ation of of o ov ver 40m ar er 40m are s e signific ignificant ant mil mile es st tones ones and w and we e BOB WIPER, Chief Executive are proud to have achieved these figures.
are proud to have achieved these figures.
2003 Annual Report and Accounts 05 60 Stanley Leisure plc Operating Review Gaming Division Can the gaming division match the performance of last year?
And are the casinos still PAUL COLLIS, Gaming Division REELING THEM IN Divisional profitability before goodwill amortisation rose 9% as the new games deployed began positively to influence our in the year from 33.8m to 36.7m, driven primarily by an margin mix.
This also reflected the investment in improved CCTV exceptional performance from our London casinos.
coverage beginning to pay dividends.
Provincial casinos Our acquired casinos were among the most affected by the changes Core profitability excluding the acquisitions we made during the we made: the effect on profitability was marked, immediate and year was in line with last year at 17.2m.
However, it is important expected.
However, the Tower casinos acquired in July 2002 two to remember that last years figure represented a significant casinos in Birmingham plus casinos in Blackpool, Derby and step-change with profitability up 62% on the previous year.
Reading did recover their profitability levels in the fourth quarter Performance was affected by the operational changes we made in of the year.
The two smaller casino acquisitions we made in May the year.
The reconfiguration of our estate to accommodate the new 2002, in Luton and Brighton, also performed below expectations games and food offering was disruptive to trading and ultimately in the year for the same reasons, but it should be remembered to profit.
However we are confident that these necessary changes that the Luton casino was a brand new casino where we are have improved our operations in readiness for the anticipated effectively building the business from scratch.
London casinos In the fourth quarter of the year our provincial casinos suffered a You will recall that in 1999 we acquired a London portfolio which reduction in turnover growth, as indeed did the entire industry.
needed no front of house change: from this strong base we We reacted to this slowdown by significantly reducing our cost have consistently produced highly satisfactory results and this base from April.
year was a new high, with an 18% increase in profitability from 17.1m to 20.2m.
Average drop per head increased 11% from Despite the issues outlined above we have again seen significant 1,170 to 1,298.
The net charge for debt collectables for the growth in some of our key metrics.
Average drop per head on a year was 1.8m.
Despite these collectables, the combination of like for like basis increased 9% in the year from 180 to 197 top-line growth and a stable and settled cost base has re-affirmed on top of a 23% increase last year and our win margin improved our position as the most successful operator in the London market.
2003 Annual Report and Accounts 07 How is the betting division responding to changes in the industry?
The year JOHN WHITTAKER, Betting Division in betting A dogged performance 80 Stanley Leisure plc Operating Review Betting Division Divisional profitability was 5% below last year at 20.3m against 21.4m.
Ignoring fixed asset disposals the shortfall was 1% at A MATURE BUSINESS 20.4m against 20.7m.
Our strong turnover growth in the year was obviously encouraging: PERHAPS IT USED we were particularly pleased to see the growth continuing beyond the anniversary of the change to Gross Profits Tax.
Average stake per slip moved ahead by 13% from 6.16 to 6.93.
TO BE, BUT NOT On the other hand, the second half of the year provided a very tough trading environment for our core betting business.
You will ANY LONGER recall the problems with horse racing margins highlighted at the half year: this continued to be an issue and was exacerbated by It is probably true to say that only a couple of years ago our betting the poor run of race results for bookmakers culminating with business could have been described as mature.
Since then we Cheltenham and the following two weeks.
have seen a succession of significant changes Gross Profits Tax, product diversification, EPOS, FOBTs and now international FOBTs have emerged during the year as a popular new betting developments.
A mature business perhaps it used to be, but not opportunity.
At the half year we had 239 machines deployed, any longer.
Our aim is to increase this figure to beyond 1,000 during the new financial year.
Our slow start in People FOBTs was due to supply problems which will be rectified in the As ever it is only right that I take this opportunity to express my year ahead.
gratitude to all our staff for their contribution towards the years results.
It is a truism that in a service business such as ours, We were pleased to see the development last year in our customer service is all important.
I am confident that this remains international operations in Italy and Croatia: the business is a key element of our success and will remain so as we continue primarily football.
The profitability achieved helped to counterto develop the business in the years ahead, both up to and balance the difficulties encountered with U. K. horse racing beyond deregulation.
results and highlights the benefits of geographic and product diversification.
Bob Wiper, Chief Executive, 10 July 2003 2003 Annual Report and Accounts 09
