Polymer Chemicals Polymer The Ditar business in Holland, Chemicals acquired in early 2003, has been successfully integrated and establishes us as the clear market leader in the European carpet compound sector.
Once again, good growth in turnover, Our ongoing strategy of investing in Turnover million including joint ventures approaching 14%, was achieved by our new assets in support of product and water-based polymer operations in 2003. geographic growth has passed some Underlying demand was reasonable, but important milestones and provides an selling price increases and the first time excellent platform for future growth.
The contribution from the acquisition of the Synthomer SA dispersion facility in Ditar compounding businesses were also Mouscron, Belgium, is achieving good 2001 238.8 important factors in this performance.
capacity utilisation and a major expansion 2002 260.0 is currently at an early planning stage.
Operating margins, at 10% of sales, were Production at our Malaysian nitrile latex 2003 295.4 towards the bottom end of the range we plant is approaching design capacity.
With have experienced historically during the the further migration of synthetic glove The above data has been extracted from note 1 cyclical rise and fall in the cost of raw production to South East Asia we shall, to the financial statements on page 42 materials.
Generally, it had been thought as planned, be augmenting the local that the price of petroleum-based production from our European sites.
Divisional operating profit million products would moderate post the New environmental legislation further resolution of the Iraq crisis.
This did not delayed our capacity expansion in South turn out to be the case and raw materials Africa.
However, working in close remained firm.
The anticipation of a fall, cooperation with the authorities and the however, made customer sentiment local community, full commissioning took against price increases all the stronger.
place in the fourth quarter.
2001 31.1 The Ditar business in Holland, acquired 2002 37.6 in early 2003, has been successfully 2003 29.6 integrated and establishes us as the clear market leader in the European carpet The above data has been extracted from note 1 compound sector.
Recent announcements to the financial statements on page 42 of the withdrawal of a significant supplier from this market should provide both a sales opportunity and greater stability going forward.
14% The difficulty of predicting even the short-term position regarding the cost of raw materials may persist for some increase in turnover time, providing challenges for margin development.
On the other hand, volume during 2003 growth should be less problematic given our sustained concentration on speciality markets and the fact that manufacturing capacity is now available in the appropriate location to develop sales geographically.
06 07 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2003 Synthetic Latex Emulsions Polymer The acquisition of Ditar Ridderkerk BV Synthomer continued to grow its share and Ditar Hasselt BV in February 2003 of the free emulsion market in the UK, but Chemicals provided additional volume to our overall sales were flat, as additional synthetic latex plants in Germany and the in-house capacity was installed at major continued UK, as well as establishing Synthomer as customers.
In mainland Europe, volumes the number one supplier in the European grew, supported by the new polymerisation carpet compound market.
Floor covering plant in Belgium.
Product development latex and compounds now represent the also saw the portfolio enhanced by the largest volume sector of business for launch of several new water-based Synthomer, with sales growing by close polymers for surface coating and adhesives.
Progress was sustained in the speciality areas, but the free A new reactor installed at DCI-Harco in capacity created by the transfer of volume Saudi Arabia has provided much needed to Malaysia will permit further penetration capacity to supply the Middle East market.
Despite concerns over security in the region, it was pleasing to see our Saudi Synthetic nitrile glove production continues joint venture achieve record volume and to grow in South East Asia and China.
substitution of natural latex gloves also continues apace, creating an opportunity In South Africa, the strengthening Rand for substantially increased sales volumes.
impacted unfavourably on export activity The new Synthomer nitrile latex operation to sub-Saharan Africa.
The local market in Kluang, Malaysia experienced some remained strong, placing pressure on delays in obtaining customer approvals.
production capacity until the new reactor These were, however, achieved during the was fully commissioned.
second half, leading to a rapid growth in sales volume.
Additional resource is now The business in the Far East saw a year of focused on debottlenecking the plant, economic turbulence.
As well as the raw in order to maximise the supply of nitrile material cost pressures seen elsewhere, latex manufactured in Malaysia.
the first half was badly affected by the SARS outbreak.
Volumes improved during the second half, partly helped by exports on the back of Ringgit devaluation.
Overall, the year finished strongly and plant debottlenecking is in progress in anticipation of a continuation of this improved performance.
01 01 Synthomers emulsions are used in many types of decorative paints.
08 09 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2003 02 02 03 04 Our market status in aqueous polymers was strengthened using the advantages of new production capacity and a wider portfolio of products.
03 Alcotex stabilisers for PVC manufacture continued their forward momentum as the market for higher quality PVC expanded.
04 Carpet compounding was complemented by the acquisition of Ditar in the Netherlands.
Polyvinyl Alcohol Acetate Other Speciality Products The natural rubber business continued The PVC industry, the main outlet for In the Malaysian adhesives sector, its recovery and produced much improved Synthomers alcotex range of polyvinyl Revertex Finewaters maintained its market results, aided by a strong upward alcohols, had a weak year, showing little leadership position, but the SARS issue movement in rubber prices.
The core growth in Europe and reduced growth rates impacted the Malaysian woodworking prevulcanised latex business remains in the traditional USA and Asian markets.
and furniture industries, which were slow a focus, where a number of new growth Sales of alcotex, however, continued to recover.
It is pleasing to report that opportunities have been identified.
to grow, with their unique stabilising things have now returned to historic levels.
characteristics being utilised by our Export sales, particularly to Vietnam, In the lithene polybutadiene business, customers desire to produce ever higher exhibited strong growth and a study is in initiatives brought to the market in the last quality PVC.
The new PVC pilot plant progress to assess the possibility of three years are showing excellent customer commissioned in early 2003 was used to establishing local production in that country.
acceptance and will easily compensate good effect by Synthomer in demonstrating for the decline in the use of this product for the effectiveness of our products.
The resins business in Malaysia also chlorinated rubber production.
exhibited growth, primarily in the polyester Polyvinyl acetate sales continue to find market, where a technical licence with their special niche in a wide variety of a major South Korean company is moving applications.
Sales were slightly down the business into new product areas.
on 2002, primarily as a result of weaker Flame retardant and in situ pipe lining parquet wood flooring adhesives sales in repairs typify the speciality direction of the the recessed German market.
