Operating reviews Regionals division impact on the overall circulation of most regional newspaper The Regionals division has robust, market leading titles in many of titles.
This research enabled a more aggressive cover pricing the UKs most important metropolitan markets.
Whilst the division policy to be implemented in the second half of the year within had undergone a period of change through the from Biggest to a framework of little and often.
The benefits of this policy are Best programme since 2001, 2003 represented a period of clearly evident in the improved circulation revenue performance significant change following the Chief Executives Review which in the second half of the year.
highlighted scope for further improvement.
Key areas identified for accelerating the performance of the division included: Advertising represents the key revenue stream for the division improving circulation revenues by implementing a more and improving performance remains a key objective of the aggressive cover pricing strategy division.
Revenue improving initiatives completed in the year improving advertising performance included: cost reduction through delayering management structures better segmentation of our markets to better understand and regionalisation revenue trends and identify opportunities accelerating the pace of change.
The change programme sharing of best practice throughout our businesses was moving too slowly on too many fronts.
yield optimisation and control systems improved performance monitoring through a more sophisticated Despite a difficult economic environment and uncertainty created method of recording overall and new business call rates by the war in Iraq in the first quarter the division has made improved prospecting and contact management systems significant progress in improving performance during 2003. using marketing databases to source business leads a new and more efficient advertising booking system.
Arresting circulation volume decline and increasing readership levels remain a key challenge for the industry as busier lifestyles In short, our Advertisement function will be more efficient and more and growing media choice affects consumers.
However, the effective than before and this will drive future revenue development.
inherent strength of our brands, coupled with a vigorous, ongoing product development programme, enabled the Group to During the second half of the year the management team of the limit volume declines in line with our peer group whilst division has been significantly scaled back and is now focused increasing circulation revenues in the second half.
on co-ordinating activity within the regions with regional management taking more responsibility and having a greater A strong focus continues in this area to: involvement in specific business development initiatives.
develop editorial to ensure we meet readers needs In addition to a more focused divisional and senior management have the product in the correct place at the right time by team through delayered management structures, the division focusing on the supply chain works closely with the Group functions to reduce duplication develop home delivered sale through best practice direct and drive Groupwide performance improving initiatives.
distribution methods optimise the return on our marketing investment A new Managing Director has been appointed to the business ensure we have appropriate point of sale methods as the in the South.
We are currently reviewing all aspects of this range and nature of the retail business changes business with the objective of improving performance.
add value through new or enhanced content use this overall, publishing-led philosophy to implement The division continued its regionalisation programme, which a more aggressive cover-pricing policy than in recent years.
delivered significant cost and operational benefits.
The division, excluding Ireland which was successfully disposed of on 15 Research into the impact of cover price increases on circulation January 2004, operates through 6 regions.
These are Scotland, volumes confirmed that sensible cover price increases had little North East, North West, Midlands, South Wales and South.
The division has made significant progress in improving performance during 2003.
