The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Minerals Division: The world leader in the design and manufacture of pumps, mill liners, cyclones and slurry valves for the mining and minerals processing industries.
250 200 150 Order input 100 Scot Smith 225.8m 201.1m Divisional Managing Director 2002 2003 Up 12.3% Operational review Our Minerals Division continued to build on its leadership position growing input, profits and margins across most areas of its operations.
Much of the success in 2003 is attributed to the actions taken by management to develop innovative new products and expand the divisions geographic position to high growth emerging markets.
Increased focus on our South American, Chinese and Indian initiatives produced further year on year growth while laying the foundations for investments as and when the right opportunities arise.
The divisions commitment to geographic expansion was reflected in revised operating structures which placed our strongest management in regionally focused roles to leverage the considerable installed talent of our existing businesses in support of growth in emerging markets.
Key achievements Market research started in 2002 has evolved into product development projects that will see patented, high performance products launched into every market where we operate during 2004.
Lean principles have been introduced in each company with disciplined, focused improvement plans driving productivity increases.
A new management team was installed in India focused on growing our Minerals Division and the Weir presence in that country.
The operations were moved from Delhi to Bangalore to better support our end customers.
Exports to the Former Soviet Union and China continue to grow.
Much analysis and resource was committed to developing a growth strategy for China.
2003 saw our regional management structure fully mature.
Four regional managers, responsible for North America, South America, Europe-Africa and the Asia Pacific are in place.
Their task and focus is to drive growth in each region.
Divisional support structures focused on growing our division were installed in 2003.
A business development champion and a lean purchase champion were hired.
Purchasing co-operation with all Weir divisions has driven implementation of globally negotiated supply agreements helping us to reduce costs and suppliers.
Lost time accidents have been reduced by 35% from 2002 results, driven by focused improvement plans and a dedicated management team.
All Minerals companies are on target to achieve ISO 14001 certification by December 2004.
Four companies, Weir Warman Australia, Weir Brasil Brasil, Weir Warman UK and Weir Vulco Chile have already received certification.
10 Operational Review: Minerals Division Best product for process Minimum downtime, minimum disruption to process Global supply, local support Copper mine Codelco Chuquicamata, Chile Consolidating the supply base Slurry pump installation We provided 60 Slurry Pumps, 65 Isogate Codelco was seeking to raise production knife valves, hydrocyclone reparation, Best people in the right place levels at the Chuquicamata copper mine in equipment selection during concept stage, Chile from 160k tons per day to 184k tons on-site engineering solutions, equipment per day.
Our contract was for supply, repair testing, inspections and service, totalling and testing of a solution that would optimise $2 million in orders.
equipment at two concentrators, including the acquisition and construction of a new Results and benefits: pebbles crushing plant.
Achieved projected 184k tons per day Increased life of mill circuit pump liners from 600 hours to 3000 hours Improved duration of hydrocyclone liners over competitors Superior products Through life performance The strength of Weir Minerals products lies in the superiority of our Meeting customer specifications is simply the first step in delivering whole hydraulic designs coupled with our wear and corrosion resistant materials.
From design and installation, through service, Mining and minerals as well as other key markets typically involve abrasive maintenance and upgrade, we ensure continuity of excellence.
and or corrosive slurries that make severe demands on the equipment A combination of the best people, the most cost effective products, used.
The product brands in our portfolio have a deserved reputation for solutions for any application, customer-focused product development and wear life and reliability.
continuous materials research and development lies at the core of the Our core skills revolve around delivering demonstrably lower ownership market leadership enjoyed by all our Minerals Division products.
costs from all our products.
This requires expertise in product design, Weir Minerals is committed to providing a strong technological resource manufacture, specialised materials, application and ongoing field support.
dedicated to minimising downtime and preventing disruption to the Our products maintain a clear technological superiority over our customers business.
competitors and the depth and extent of our integrated core skills ensure we maintain this leadership year after year.
Weir Minerals design teams operate worldwide, in product specific design Close to our customers centres, based in areas where particular expertise exists.
The design Our field engineers work together with our customers, often on a daily engineers, material scientists, process specialists, field engineers, project basis, to optimise and continuously reduce the ongoing ownership cost of managers and manufacturing experts across Weir Minerals companies are our products.
Field improvements are quickly transferred back through our among the best in the world.
engineering and materials teams into ongoing product improvements.
To ensure that all our customers, wherever they are in the world, have Many of our best innovations and improvements are derived from the access to local expertise of the very highest calibre, we are constantly mutual problem solving or cost reduction programmes carried out with sharing know-how and best practice in a culture of continuous our customers.
Fast and reliable supply also ranks high among our business priorities, which are tuned to the specific needs of our many diverse customers.
Weir Minerals is at the forefront of the industry in developing a truly global supply capability.
Our business model allows us to service global and local customers equally effectively.
Substantial operations in all major global regions, operating through a very strong divisional network, enable us to maximise the benefits of our worldwide operations.
Clearly, local engineering support and the ability to have someone on site are vital to our customers process efficiency.
We have historically delivered that expertise locally, on site, day or night.
11 Alluvial diamond mine Siberia Facts and figures: No.
of businesses 9 2003 order input 225.8m Market size c. 800m Market position No.
1 Primary input breakdown: Minerals 70% General Industrial 16% Power Generation 7% Oil Industry 5% Water & Wastewater 2% Geographic breakdown: Americas 36% Australasia 18% Europe 15% Asia 13% Middle East & Africa 11% UK 7% The Minerals Division delivered double-digit input growth through a combination of market share gains and expansion into extended geographic and product areas.
Our progressive and increasing investments into higher growth markets of India, China, South Africa and South America all contributed to stronger year on year input growth and profit generation.
The combination of strong commodity prices, new product launches and our continued investments in higher growth markets augur well for a continued strong performance from our Minerals businesses in 2004.
Scot Smith, Divisional Managing Director Market review The Minerals Division strengthened our position within our core markets through the year while aggressively expanding in developing markets.
Technological leadership in our products consolidated our position as the worlds premium supplier of specialised slurry handling equipment, which includes slurry pumps, hydrocyclones, slurry valves and mill lining systems.
The ongoing provision of technical support services, replacement parts and specialised service enables us to provide an integrated service to our clients.
Key global markets include minerals processing, coal washing, power generation and general industrial applications where tough, abrasion resistant products are demanded for the most difficult jobs.
Core minerals markets remained strong through the year with important commodities such as alumina, copper, gold, lead, nickel and zinc all showing improved price levels over the year.
Our regional operations are strategically located within these core global markets and are well positioned to effectively supply and service all our key customers.
Our major manufacturing operations in Australia, Chile, Brasil, France, UK, United States, and South Africa support our extensive global supply and service network.
Aggressive growth strategies were initiated in India and China to reflect the strong potential in these dynamic regions with plans on track in the developing Russian market.
China figured prominently in marketing activities through the year with strong demand from their alumina industry for our GEHO high pressure slurry pumps and their power generation market for our Warman flue gas desulphurisation pumps.
A range of new pumps was introduced specifically to boost our market share in the important Canadian tar sands industry with encouraging initial results.
Overall, markets served by our Minerals Division remained solid through the year with optimism for the coming year.
The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Clear Liquid Division: A world-class provider of end to end pumping solutions for major oil and gas, power generation, water and hydrocarbon processing projects.
200 150 100 Order input 50 Laurie West 146.5m 162.7m Divisional Managing Director 2002 2003 Down 10.0% Operational review Our Clear Liquid Division made considerable progress in 2003 and, despite a 6.2% reduction in turnover from continuing businesses to 158.8m 2002: 169.2m, operating profit and margins improved when compared to 2002.
As outlined in the 2002 report, this division has historically underperformed the best of our peers.
Throughout the year, we continued to take decisive actions to realign our product portfolio to more attractive markets, while rigorously pursuing operational improvements.
These actions remain on target and promise to deliver margin, earnings and cash flow improvements in line with our ambition to deliver sector best returns and performance.
With restructuring in the Clear Liquid Division now substantially complete, our energies are focused on delivering a new rationalised product range in a global landscape, after deleting product which did not have the potential to lead markets.
Our late 2003 product launches, initially targeted at the Middle East and Far East oil and water markets, have received a positive reception resulting in a strengthened level of input in the second half of 2003.
Key achievements Uniglide launch the first of seven brand new products, representing part of a 6m investment, was launched in September and was well received by customers.
A major order, was received for pumping equipment for the Buzzard oil field in the North Sea.
Further equipment for this project will include Techna and Valves products.
Sales to the Former Soviet Union increased by some 400% in 2003.
This was largely driven by successes at Weir Lewis in the phosphates market.
The new VSR 2100 variable speed Roto-Jet product was launched and the first installation made at the Drax Power Station in the UK.
Key advantages of the product are a footprint that is 50% smaller and a 10% energy saving.
The VSR 2100 has been nominated as Technical Innovation of the Year in the prestigious British Pump Manufacturers Association Awards.
The divisions global sales force has been restructured to deliver significant growth in 2004 5.
Considerable progress has been made in all companies on the journey to Lean implementation.
Stronger focus on upgraded Apprentice Training Programme resulted in external awards and recognition.
Lost time accidents have been reduced by 41% over 2002 for the total division.
12 Operational Review: Clear Liquid Division Customer focus Innovation and problem solving New product development Uniglide Achieving operational excellence New product launch Global delivery Reducing through-life costs Longer life components minimise costly Through-life operating costs are a key driver downtime of the equipment.
Its internal for both municipal and deregulated water efficiency enhancement coating is approved industries worldwide and general industrial for use with potable water to UK and US customers.
Weir Clear Liquid saw an standards, while a resilient fusion-bonded opportunity for a new generation of pumps efficiency enhancement coating is available that would operate at 60Hz speed yet remain for industrial operating conditions.
Customer benefits 48 frame sizes using 24 casings The resulting Uniglide water pump offers a Up to 10% reduction in through-life costs 5-10% reduction in operating costs, with 70% reduction in offline time for greater energy efficiency, ease of bearing seal replacement maintenance and extended service intervals.
Over 50% reduction in parts Meeting customer needs worldwide Best product for process The success of Weir Clear Liquid Division is based on our ability to satisfy Anticipating customer demands in competitive and changing markets is a the needs of both major engineering contractors and the ultimate endkey factor in improving our performance.
The Weir Groups commitment user.
Understanding that our products play a critical role in our customers to a 6m programme of development has enabled us to create innovative processes, we provide products known for their dependability, efficiency products that solve specific process problems for our customers.
A good example of this is the Variable Speed Roto-Jet product launched in In 2003, we reinforced our global sales and marketing activities to ensure 2003, which improves energy efficiency by up to 10% by operating at a consistent quoting, pricing and service delivery worldwide, while an lower speed when demand is low and which has a footprint 50% smaller enhanced customer care process, including a web-based project tracking than earlier equivalents.
facility, has strengthened relationships with key customers.
A new chopper pump has several patented features that provide improved As a result, we have greatly increased the number of quotation performance and serviceability over competitors.
We have also developed opportunities open to us and are selling an improved portfolio of products the first size 18 sulphuric acid pump, capable of circulating 2600 cubic to satisfy customer needs.
This has resulted in a number of significant meters per hour.
contract wins, particularly in the oil and power industries.
In all, seven completely new product lines have been introduced within the last 18 months.
This compares with five product improvements in the prior 10 years.
Our strategic approach is underpinned by Clear Liquid Divisions recognised value analysis, value engineering expertise.
We evaluate continuously all our products against competitive benchmarks, seeking design and engineering solutions that reduce costs and improve quality.
This systematic search for efficiency, coupled with our expanding global distribution footprint, allows us to grow market share.
From strategy to execution Throughout 2003, we continued to drive toward best in class Lean business practices.
The division wide ownership and understanding of Lean principles has not only resulted in operating efficiencies, but has also provided us with the ability to execute strategies effectively and rapidly.
From a 41% reduction in accidents, to Weir Lewiss achievement in increasing sales to the Former Soviet Union by over 400%, from the implementation of a global sales team, to the reduction of overdues at one site from over 700 to 50 in the year, we now have the structures to deploy policy globally and consistently.
Weir Clear Liquid Division today is an effective, responsive organisation, well positioned to capitalise on opportunities and focused on those markets where we can lead.
13 Sea water injection pumps Canadian oil platform Facts and figures: No.
of businesses 6 2003 order input 146.5m Market size c. 7.5bn Market position No.
3, 4 or 5 in sectors in which we operate Primary input breakdown: Oil 32% Water & Wastewater 23% General Industrial 18% Power Generation 15% Minerals 9% Naval & Marine 3% Geographic breakdown: Americas 34% Middle East & Africa 21% UK 17% Asia 17% Europe 11% The significant investment which has been made to build our technical infrastructure over the past two years, is now showing early signs of promise.
The first of our new products was launched in 2003 with excellent market response and a high level of enthusiasm for the progressive launch of the balance of our new ranges in 2004 and beyond Laurie West, Divisional Managing Director Market review Weir Clear Liquid Divisions key global markets include the oil and gas industry and downstream hydrocarbon processing market, water and wastewater and the general industrial sector.
Events in the Middle East had a slowing effect on projects in the first half, as uncertainty about oil prices delayed investment decisions.
Global growth predictions for the oil market remain at 2-3% a year.
There is significant opportunity in the more rapidly expanding markets, particularly the Former Soviet Union and China and we are focusing our energies at these emerging markets.
Weir Lewis has had particular success in Russia and this provides a platform for selling a wider range of products into this exciting market.
Hydrocarbon processing is a highly consolidated market with good opportunities for new, competitive products.
We took the strategic decision to compete actively in this market with the development of two customer-focused product ranges and new sales tools available at regional level.
This will generate good growth.
The predicted downturn in the United States power market proved sharp and significant, though again emerging markets offer opportunities for growth.
We are also working with our sister divisions across the Weir Group to explore opportunities in nuclear and renewable energy.
Water and wastewater is a growing global market, in which consolidation offers the opportunity of building strong relationships with customers working in several regions.
Our global footprint and the wider Group capability place us in a strong position to benefit from these opportunities.
Geographically, Weir Clear Liquid Division has operations across North America, the UK, Europe, Australia and the Middle East.
We have an aggressive strategy towards new markets, with a regional sales presence in Asia, South Korea, the Former Soviet Union and South America and we are also investing in expanding our presence in The Gulf.
The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Valves & Controls Division: Specialists in critical service and isolation valves designed to support regulatory compliance in power generation and oil and gas safety.
80 60 40 Order input 20 Tony Morgan 62.0m 60.8m Divisional Managing Director 2002 2003 Up 1.9% Operational review 2003 saw the continued strengthening of the Valves & Controls Division with significant progress being made in our endeavours to realign the business around a more customer-focused organisation aimed at the most attractive markets.
While the divisions actions to restructure its global market and continued pursuit of Lean business practices delivered impressive operational improvements, the one-off costs to close an under-utilised French valve operation and the costs of turning around the UK business resulted in lower profits and margins when compared to 2002.
As we move forward with the foundation stones of our transition substantially concluded, we are now poised to deliver accelerated growth and improved financial performance in 2004 and beyond.
Key achievements Whilst input levels have been maintained there have been areas of growth especially: - 44% growth in Asia - 20% growth in spares - 11% growth in Europe within base valve - Second record year in succession for growth in the United States pulsation damper market, showing a 35% growth.
Successful closure of a duplicated French manufacturing facility and transfer of production capability to its sister plant, generating significant overhead savings in 2004.
26% reduction in working capital requirements from 2002 with a significant reduction in trade debt.
Considerable purchasing savings for the year with the number of suppliers reduced by 34%.
The divisions global sales force re-structured and strengthened to deliver significant growth in 2004.
22% reduction in the number of lost time accidents.
New product development positions the division well for future deep water application projects.
United States company awarded major power contracts for nuclear and non-nuclear sites.
14 Operational Review: Valves & Controls Division Whole project, whole process solutions State of the art product development Product Configuration New product development Worldwide customer-focus Customer-focused design tool end-users, to assist in achieving operating Global sales and marketing efficiency, optimum performance and ease Designing the complex hole pattern to of maintenance.
achieve the required flow control is a critical factor in the efficiency of any control This launch follows the success of our earlier solution.
The configuration of bespoke project configuration tool, and incorporates Multi-disciplinary teams designs to meet specific process, volume and detailed specification into the earliest stages customer requirements, has traditionally of planning and design.
been a very labour intensive task.
Benefits: Weir Valves & Controls has developed a tool - Quotation times have been cut substantially to automate the process, integrating design - Need for engineering review is eliminated specification with manufacturing, in order to - Closer involvement with customer automatically size, select and engineer our - Design resources freed up for other work control valves.
The hole pattern configurator is used in collaboration with contractors and - Bills of material now free from human error Sharing knowledge, building teams Productivity, safety and reliability The Valves & Controls Division manufactures and supplies products for Valves & Controls Divisions chief competitive advantage comes from the critical isolation and control applications within the power, oil and gas and superior design and quality of our products.
Our customers choose to petrochemical sectors.
Our customers require access to specialist expertise purchase equipment from Weir for severe safety critical applications to and the ability to work in multi-disciplinary teams as part of a wider project ensure that they have the best possible technical solutions and equipment.
Our people are a key differentiator, from engineering through to This reputation is founded on over 150 years of engineering excellence.
One result of this heritage is that there is a very large base of installed plant In 2003, the division invested in the recruitment, training and deployment using Weir Valves & Controls products worldwide.
2003 saw a far more of key people to support our strategy for growth.
We have significantly systematic and successful approach to communicating with this customer strengthened both the global sales team and our engineering research and base regarding their requirement for spares and replacement products.
development team to ensure we continue to grow market share by We now provide our customers with improved availability of original developing new products and taking our whole portfolio aggressively to manufactured spares, with the associated quality, reliability and safety new markets.
Our new product development programmes and innovative technical solutions are essential for the continued growth of the division.
Our research and development engineers work closely with customers to find more effective solutions for some of the worlds most technically challenging environments.
We have state of the art systems for product development and for the rapid deployment of new products to market.
Worldwide customer-focus The divisions strategy for future growth is based on improving and capitalising on our understanding of our customers.
This has entailed a cultural shift, from a traditional manufacturing company to a sales and marketing-led organisation.
Customer-focus is now driven through everything we do, from business development through to assembly, test, despatch, installation and aftercare.
In 2003, we increased our customer interaction through site visits, customer training at our factories and customer feedback sessions.
Most importantly, we have taken the sales and marketing expertise formerly focused on company and country-specific markets and created a global team, with regional responsibilities and the tools to sell the whole portfolio of products.
This has also strengthened our ability to support our customers locally.
As part of our continued development we have established regional divisional sales offices in China, South Korea and the Middle East.
We work through Weir Group offices in Canada, South Africa, Australia, India and South America, offering both commercial and technical support and our manufacturing plants in France, United Kingdom and United States also offer extensive customer support facilities.
Our combination of engineering excellence applied to a customer-focused product range and effective global marketing strategy provides a strong basis for our continued growth.
