Operational review Land bank, purchasing and planning Westburys traditionally strong land bank has been further augmented Socio-economic issues form another major strand of 2 by the acquisition of Prowting, and now comprises 15,000 plots with our investigations, with a growing emphasis on the consent, a further 1,100 with terms agreed and 23,000 strategic plots.
availability of services, including transportation, and Brownfield land accounts for some 60% of our total land holdings, in overall sustainability.
Our ability to contribute to local accordance with the Governments PPG3 planning guidelines.
infrastructure and facilities has become ever more important in securing public support and planning approval for Each land purchase is subject to strict criteria on size, price and location developments.
Westbury maintains close community to ensure that it meets our operational requirements.
A typical site links to ensure that it is in touch with opinions 3 comprises around 75 plots and is developed within two and a half years.
throughout its operating territory, and in tune with local government policies on sustainable In a fiercely competitive market place, the early identification of the development and transportation.
right opportunities is critical to business success.
Westburys excellent regional knowledge and local research, combined with strong Westbury has worked with local authorities for many relationships with land agents and owners, ensures that we maintain years to achieve the right balance between social and private housing a steady supply of sites which meet our targets in areas that are in its developments.
This experience will become increasingly important attractive to our customers.
as social housing obligations increase under the proposed Planning and Compulsory Purchase Bill and Communities Plan during next year.
These Every potential Westbury development is investigated rigorously as part will make sustainability core to planning policy under both European of our site investigation procedure, the key components of which include and British law, and increase the importance of cordial and co-operative an environmental impact assessment.
This examines the potential effects relationships between homebuilders and the communities in which of each development in terms of noise, air quality, landscape and visual they operate.
impact, as well as its effects on ecology, archaeology and the built heritage.
We also examine drainage and ground conditions, and undertake Westburys ability to respond to the requirements of the changing a comprehensive risk analysis.
This EnviroCheck process ensures that we planning and regulatory environment is underpinned by its forwardcan make an informed decision on land values, based on the fullest looking culture.
This has kept us at the forefront of design and possible understanding of each sites work requirements and our costs, technology and ahead in developing social and environmental best liabilities and risks.
We have also consistently maintained close links with the 12 3 8 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 Astute purchasing and planning is combined with responsive design to achieve financial success.
principal industry bodies such as the Housing Forum, and with the Clean-up work will include the demolition of a former cement works, Government itself.
Our proactive policy has enabled us to make a real with most of the rubble being reused on site.
contribution to new strategies and thinking in our industry sector.
Pre-build treatment is essential on many sites, and is often highly We have built up extensive experience over many years in recycling specialised and challenging.
One of the more unusual projects we previously used land, including demolition and the treatment of undertook last year involved abseiling down chimneys at the Wombourne contamination.
These skills are of particular value as we increase our enamel works to jet-wash hardened enamel off brickwork, prior to reliance on brownfield sites.
demolition, in order to avoid air contamination.
For larger regeneration projects, we are experienced in working as part Two of our South Wales sites in the last eighteen months have required of a consortium with other builders.
A typical example is Quedgeley drilling and grouting of old mine workings to stabilise the ground.
We Urban Village in Gloucestershire, our largest current single development.
also remove asbestos and other dangerous materials, such as petrol and This is a mixed-use 240 acre site which will include a business park and diesel spillages.
In these instances we drain the land into sumps and skim retail scheme as well as some 2,650 new homes.
Westbury is leading off the hydrocarbons for safe disposal.
The remaining earth is then the scheme and holds a 25% share in a consortium which also cleaned and reused on site.
includes Wimpey, Bryant and Robert Hitchins.
The Deputy Prime Minister, John Prescott, has identified four key areas Quedgeley faces many of the challenges commonly presented by in the country for significant growth of new homes: the Stansted M11 brownfield sites.
A former Ministry of Defence logistics and supply centre, corridor, Thames Gateway, Milton Keynes, and Ashford in Kent.
Westbury it requires extensive land rehabilitation, including a 6 million investment is extremely well positioned to benefit from this policy, with extensive to remove contaminated material.
In addition, the site currently contains strategic land holdings in the three latter areas, including a significant some small business premises and we will be responsible for coex-Ministry of Defence brownfield site in Ashford where we have the ordinating their relocation.
potential to create 1,200 new homes.
Another significant brownfield development currently under way is the Plymstock Quarry Regeneration Area in Devon, which comprises eight zones to be redeveloped for employment as well as 1,500 new homes.
Selecting land in the right location is crucial to delivering the right house, in the right place and at the right price.
Design styles in home architecture and site layout have moved on in recent years.
We are living longer, more often singly, and we want homes to suit our lifestyle.
Westburys new designs and layouts respond to our customers lifestyles with more choice and flexibility, more individuality and within a traditional community.
Our core ranges, such as the prize winning Renaissance range, can be adapted to suit different locations.
Our planners and designers receive a lot of feedback from our sales team and our customers.
We look further than trends, into our customers real needs, and incorporate their ideas into future designs.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 9 Design responsiveness There are now more single households and people are living longer.
Westbury is responding with new designs to meet changing lifestyles.
It was great to have choices to make my home truly my own.
10 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 1 2 3 4 The national trends are for people to live longer, for families to get storey houses that provide extra accommodation whilst varying the roof smaller, and for ever-increasing numbers of us to live alone.
These help to create a wide variety of attractive street scenes.
Up to fuelled a national shortage of new homes, with home builders supplying 50% of standard Westbury developments are currently using Renaissance around 160,000 new homes a year compared with demand for more house types.
In addition, lifestyle trends and the changing planning environment mean that both site and house design have undergone As one of the leading housebuilders fully implementing the principles substantial change, particularly over the last five years.
of PPG3, Westbury has been asked to join a consultation group set up by the Deputy Prime Minister, John Prescott.
This group is considering Site design the issues of highways, density, planning and design in new housing Westbury has always been and remains responsive to change whether developments.
caused by governmental initiatives, market conditions or site conditions.
Over recent years we have developed our Renaissance range of homes When developments incorporate higher densities, the relationship to meet the requirements of changing planning policy, such as PPG3, between one house and the next becomes even more important.
Mixed whilst remaining attractive to our customers.
developments combining terraces and detached homes are the ideal route to ensure the most efficient use of land and to maximise customer The Governments Planning Policy Guidance paper PPG3, issued in March appeal.
The Renaissance range, as used in Westburys award-winning 2000 has been a key driver of change in site design.
This requires houses Coton Park development in Rugby, is a fine example of this approach.
to be built at a higher density, with more concern for pedestrian priority, The central street scene comprises terraced town houses and large higher quality construction and greater care for the environment.
detached homes with variable heights between two and three storeys.
This variety enhances the visual appeal of the development and can be Planners throughout our operating regions have warmly welcomed used flexibly to create a village or town atmosphere.
Similar techniques the new Renaissance designs from Westbury, which have been have been deployed in the Little Shilling development in Dorset.
The specifically developed to comply with PPG3.
The range facilitates success of Renaissance was demonstrated during 2002 by the news higher densities and enhances the visual appeal of our developments.
that Westbury had been selected by the Duchy of Cornwall to build This is achieved through the introduction of more terraced designs, the next phase of its renowned Poundbury development on the mixed with larger detached homes and with two and a half and three outskirts of Dorchester.
Coton Park in Rugby is an award winning development of Renaissance homes designed specifically to meet PPG3 guidelines.
Local materials are used to create house styles that fit in with local surroundings.
Westburys Solutions package allows a high degree of flexibility to individualise each home.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 11 1 23 4 5 There are many factors which influence each development as we seek to These features can often be designed to look like natural ponds to support maximise appeal to planners and customers.
Designing a layout to take wildlife including frogs, newts, salamanders, fish and birds.
They can also advantage of natural light and shade, for example, can have significant be planted in harmony with local natural habitat, to create areas of environmental advantages, and can produce substantial future savings tranquility for the benefit of people as well as wildlife.
in utilities bills through reduced energy consumption.
On some sites we incorporate grassed areas which are designed to flood Transportation is another major consideration in contemporary site in a controlled manner during months of heavy rainfall.
We now often make financial contributions towards transport approach avoids piping rainwater from sites directly into rivers a major infrastructure costs and work with local partners to achieve real cause of flooding.
Floods can be exacerbated by rainwater pouring off improvements in local travel patterns.
large areas of concrete straight into drains and natural watercourses.
To avoid this, we use new materials such as porous tarmac which We contribute to Green transportation objectives through planning allow rainwater to soak rapidly into the ground and the underlying design that includes footpaths, footbridges and natural pedestrian SUDS network.
access, bus lanes and cycle links.
We carefully design these to encourage people to make the shift to more environmentally friendly alternatives.
The type of high density developments favoured by PPG3, with smaller As well as making other forms of transport easy to access, we incorporate gardens and a greater proportion of buildings, makes the SUDS approach selected deterrents to inappropriate car use, including speed limits, even more important.
An example of the effectiveness of our approach sleeping policemen, rising bollards and pedestrian only areas.
can be found at our Westbury development in Tewkesbury, one of the most flood-prone areas in the country, where flooding has been Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems, known as SUDS, are a hidden area completely avoided due to the measures we have taken.
of design but are crucial to best environmental practice and to fulfilling our commitment to the conservation of British wildlife.
The drainage Other aspects of our environmental commitment include the use of low system under sites may feed into balancing tanks, small lagoons or energy street lighting and the development of site layouts specifically artificial lakes.
designed to reduce energy consumption in the longer term.
The Spinney, Evesham and Westbury Meadows in Warwick include two and three storey properties.
This variety creates attractive developments as well as maximising land usage.
Contemporary style, combining classical detail with natural materials and specialist colours, are features of our city centre developments such as Century Wharf, Cardiff and Leftbank, set to become a benchmark for city living in central Manchester.
Sinks, taps, showers, res, kitchen appliances, carpets, flooring options the exciting range of Solutions products provides exibility and choice for each customer.
Lifestyles have changed and people often entertain at home.
We offer a full range of kitchen upgrades that is proving very popular with our customers.
12 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 Our houses have increased in popularity due to improved design and our range of customising solutions.
House design more room for their choice of lifestyle.
Perhaps surprisingly, hi-tech The Westbury Renaissance range of homes has been well received by homes are not in great demand.
Technology is constantly changing and customers and planners alike.
Our development designs reflect the developments such as the increased use of portable devices make it new trends in lifestyles, both in and out of doors.
Smaller front gardens difficult to predict future requirements.
Telephone and aerial sockets are are easier to maintain and contribute towards better looking installed in the kitchen, family rooms and master bedrooms to allow as neighbourhoods.
Advance planting of mature trees is often used to much flexibility as possible for the use of technology in the home.
ensure that by the time houses are completed, the landscape planting has already started to mature.
Parking is kept off the street and away In city developments of flats and apartments, Westbury has also worked from the fronts of houses by placing car spaces and garages at the sides hard to design complementary schemes which fit in with the local and the rear of properties.
This year Nottinghams Civic Society awarded our development, The Point, in the old Lace Market a special commendation New houses are also increasing in popularity due to improved design for making a significant improvement to the local environment.
and customisation offered through the Solutions range offered by Westbury Direct.
Changing lifestyles require houses which are easier to Homes already built in Century Wharf, Cardiff, and underway at our maintain, have smaller gardens and incorporate additional features like Leftbank development in Manchester, are highly sought after.
Leftbank the popular Renaissance range room in the roof.
We retain significant is the residential development within Spinningfields, a major mixed-use scope to tailor each of our developments to reflect local styles.
Examples urban regeneration scheme covering 2.64 million sq ft over 22 acres in include the use of local stone and brick cladding, roof tiles, windows, central Manchester.
Westbury is constructing 391 luxury apartments in doors and other external features.
the 16 storey Leftbank building, and we have already pre-sold a significant proportion of the total.
Houses are generally more spacious than they were thirty years ago, as increasing prosperity has enabled people to afford larger houses with 67 6.
Columbus Point, Eastbourne pictured here along with other Westbury developments such as Century Wharf, Cardiff Bay and Leftbank in Manchester, is injecting vibrant new life into urban regeneration areas.
Westbury has developed considerable expertise in the regeneration of brownfield land.
Westburys traditionally strong land bank has benefited from the acquisition of Prowting.
Mariners Court, Minehead, featured here, was developed by Prowting in what is now Westbury South West region.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 13 Construction We continue to develop better construction skills, through our traditional labour force and our innovative Space4 manufacturing process.
This combined approach gives us the ability to build high quality homes efficiently that exceed environmental regulations.
14 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 1 2 3 4 Perhaps the single most positive feature of the last year has been the Construction is planned to take account of the natural environment and great progress we have made in improving our safety record and its other inhabitants.
Site schedules are mapped with sensitivity to local procedures.
All sub-contractors, as well as Westbury employees, working flora and fauna so that, for example, in an area incorporating trees or on site now receive basic training on health and safety and carry a site adjacent to woodland, we avoid starting construction until the end of card to confirm this.
A range of on-site toolbox talks are also run to the bird-nesting season in June.
Even in a brownfield scheme, such as old update people on specific safety issues on a regular basis.
Health and railway sidings, factors such as the breeding cycle of badgers or other safety guidelines are incorporated as an integral part of all job descriptions native fauna are taken into account during planning.
and are supported by a range of policy documents consistent with our Group Health and Safety Policy Statement.
Part of this is the Health and Construction methods are changing.
Westburys Group Technical Director Safety Training Matrix, which specifies requirements of each job in the is a member of the Housing Forums planning subgroup, involved in close Company and enables our regions to identify training needs for all staff.
consultation with the Government to determine the practical application of PPG3.
Improvements in the planning process will assist the take up of The second set of safety audit results for Westbury were completed off-site manufacture.
This approach, in which Westburys Space4 is a leader, during the year and all regions have achieved considerable holds out the promise of better quality homes built to high standards that improvements in their health and safety performance.
The Groups are also affordable.
Using standard components does not exclude performance now exceeds the industry average.
Westburys overall individuality, but frees up resources for street planning, site layout, score for PPE Personal Protection Equipment improved more than landscaping, aesthetic design and the creation of sustainable communities.
The Space4 factory manufactures a range of house components including On site we are recycling and reusing more components than external walls, with doors and windows, internal partitions and floor ever before.
On a brownfield site old buildings are demolished and cassettes.
It is designed to improve speed of construction, precision, quality the materials are separated.
All metals are sent offsite for recycling and finish.
Site labour cost inflation is a significant business risk and over and old concrete and bricks are divided, crushed and then reused time Space4 will enhance our efficiency in the utilisation of specialist trades.
Our aim on each site is to import no aggregates and export Space4 delivered 15% of our homes in the last financial year and over the no waste.
next two years that proportion is expected to increase to around 50%.
Precision engineering is a manufacturing technique that we have learned from the automotive industry.
Our team builds Space4 units with accuracy and speed.
Space4 uses continuously jointed timber so there is little end waste.
This is a prerequisite for all new processes as we decrease our environmental footprint.
Space4 shells are insulated with phenolic foam, which has a tried and tested history of use in many applications - from jet engines to baked beans tins.
Its insulation, fire safety and environmental credentials are excellent.
Putting the finishing touches to a Westbury home stretches from the building site to our customer care service.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 15 12 3 We also plan to increase Space4 output to serve other builders and Timber studs are fitted into the frames and the entire production process for social and affordable housing.
Space4 is a key driver to change is linked through a computer network.
Each 12 metre frame comprises a processes on site to make more efficient use of labour, reduce waste and number of separate wall sections which are manufactured together and accelerate our building programmes without compromising quality.
then marshalled into the correct assembly sequence prior to despatch.
Specially trained operators work alongside each machine to ensure The Space4 factory has the capacity to produce components for over quality control throughout the process.
Space4 produces a structural insulated panel comprising an external skin of cement particle board mounted on a Once each frame is constructed on the moving production line, it is timber frame with factory-injected high performance insulation.
This injected through pre-drilled holes with phenolic foam insulation and combines proven, flexible and cost-effective timber frame technology then cured in a thermostatically controlled oven.
Phenolic foam has with a superior and safe insulation system to create a high precision, excellent thermal insulation properties and bonds with the surface of energy efficient shell.
Space4 surpasses the standards set by Part L the each panel to produce an extremely strong composite structure.
latest building regulations governing energy efficiency.
Phenolic is a tried and tested material with a long history of commercial use in a number of industries.
Its applications vary from use in jet Space4s timber frames are constructed from Scandinavian spruce pine engines, where a safe insulant is required to withstand very high from accredited managed forests, and are assembled on two production temperatures, to the hygienic lining of cans for food preservation.
The timber is continuously jointed and then cut into the 12 metre lengths required.
This provides both economic and environmental Floors are built as cassettes covered in a blue, peel-clean film that benefits, permitting the procurement of random lengths of timber and protects the surface from damage during the finishing processes on-site.
ensuring very low waste as offcuts can be recycled.
CAD drawings are The cassettes are delivered just-in-time to be craned off the lorry and translated into panel designs which are then converted into machine straight onto the ground floor walls as an integral part of the rapid instructions for automated manufacture.
Space4 can provide pre-constructed sections for over 5,000 homes each year.
Sophisticated CAD CAM links from planning right through to each operating station provide precision and flexibility.
New designs can be added quickly and efficiently, with over 50 house styles produced to date.
Training in Health and Safety is a prerequisite for both sub-contractors and staff on site.
Our safety record continues to improve.
16 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 Construction Space4 has an innovative culture, including a very positive approach to The average Westbury home, typically a 1,200 square feet four bedroom change and improvement within the factory operations.
Constant house, can be manufactured in the Space4 factory at the rate of one feedback through a continuous improvement cycle helps to develop the house set per hour.
This is just one part of the time savings which the most efficient working practices in the factory and during assembly on system can achieve.
On reaching the building site the Space4 site.
For example each window is fully fitted within two minutes a components are assembled by a team of four on a standard foundation, critical target which has been achieved through teamwork to keep with a crane being used to lift the roof into place as the final part of a production moving at the required line speed.
process that takes just eight hours.
The house is then completed in the normal way with conventional brick, stone or render cladding.
As the The Space4 management team has looked outside the traditional internal fitting out can take place simultaneously, the house can be construction sector in search of best practice, bringing many techniques finished in half the time.
This is particularly evident in Space4s approach to continuous quality improvement.
The Space4 concept offers As the largest and most efficient factory of its kind in Europe, Space4 has a tremendous amount of flexibility which means that Westbury can be attracted a great deal of interest beyond its Westbury customer base.
truly responsive to customer demand.
Many different house designs have Other major housebuilders have recently run trials using the Space4 been produced in the factory to date, ranging from simple terraced units system and Westbury is working with the Housing Corporation to design to three storey town houses with rooms in the roof.
This year has also a range of Space4 housetypes for affordable housing in the priority areas seen the first Space4 apartment blocks assembled with very impressive identified by the Government.
The complete range of Westbury standard house types is now available through Space4 and the Companys sophisticated CAD CAM link allows further designs to be added swiftly and efficiently.
Three storey homes add greater living space, creating the higher density developments that planners prefer, while still providing the personal space that todays homeowners demand.
Developments must also address the varying needs of residents.
For example, older and less able people need easily accessible properties.
Cladding materials such as local stone are in keeping with regional styles.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 17 We have acknowledged expertise in brownfield remediation and redevelopment.
Safety is always a key focus for us.
Westbury talked about site safety at our school.
18 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 Our policies Environmental Health and Safety Company environmental policy Company policy for health, safety and welfare The Groups environmental policy statement is based on a commitment It is this Companys intention that its work will be carried out in to strive to apply the principles of responsible environmental accordance with the relevant statutory provisions and all reasonably management in all aspects of its business operations.
Specifically, it is our practicable measures taken to avoid risk to its employees or others policy to: who may be affected.
remain at the forefront of expertise in the recycling of brownfield Management and supervisory staff have the responsibility for land to create safe and attractive living environments implementing this Policy throughout the Company and must ensure that health and safety considerations are always given priority in continually improve the energy efficiency of our homes, so as to planning and day-to-day supervision of work.
reduce both energy consumption and emissions work with suppliers to eliminate packaging, materials and All employees and sub-contractors are expected to co-operate with the components which generate waste on site, and recycle building Company in carrying out this Policy and must ensure that their own materials as part of the cut and fill process on site work, so far as it is reasonably practicable, is carried out without risk to themselves and others.
strive to use raw materials and products from sustainable sources minimise the transport of materials to and from sites The overall responsibility for Health and Safety for the Group is with the Chief Executive, M C Donohue, with delegated responsibility to the protect controlled waters, thereby complying with the Water nominated Director in each of the subsidiary companies.
Resources Act 1991 pay careful attention to the storage, treatment and disposal of The operation of this Policy will be monitored by the management and hazardous materials, and take precautions against the accidental staff of the Company.
To assist them in this respect, the Company has spillage of toxic substances appointed Safety Supervisors to visit sites and workplaces and to give advice on the requirements of the relevant statutory provisions and carefully control the use of pesticides, herbicides and potentially safety matters generally.
toxic treatments retain trees, wherever practicable, and comply with tree The Safety Supervisors are MBA Safety & Training and NHBC Health and preservation orders Safety Services.
protect vulnerable species including badgers, bats and amphibians, This statement of Company Policy will be displayed prominently at all and take expert advice when necessary sites and workplaces.
allocate environmental responsibility at main board level.
The organisation and arrangements for implementing the Policy will also be available at each site and workplace for reference by any employee as required.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 19 Sales success The relationship of our sales people with each customer is critical to our success.
We provide homes that match individual needs and expectations.
Valuable feedback provided by our customers is incorporated into our future designs.
20 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 12 3 4 Last year we announced our aim of doubling the turnover of our homes Integral to the basic house package are choices for kitchen styles, business within five years, and we are currently ahead of target.
The bathroom suites, wall tiles and carpeting.
There are also additional successful integration of Prowting our third strategic acquisition since Solutions options for upgraded kitchens, jacuzzi installations and 1996 has extended our territory, strengthened our land bank and appliances such as dishwashers, ovens and washing machines.
Other delivered a significant volume uplift which will continue as we move choices which can be incorporated during build include conservatories, forward into our first full year of ownership.
landscaped gardens and a choice of driveway finish, such as tarmac or block paving.
There is enormous interest in adding the personal touch to During the year we sold a total of 4,461 homes, an increase of 19%, a new home, reflected in the vast array of popular television shows and reflecting the addition of former Prowting sites, while our average magazines on interior decorating and garden design currently on offer.
This was driven by Westburys continued move towards superior locations and designs, including the Four Westbury regions are also pioneering the use of Solutions growth of our Renaissance range, as well as Prowtings higher average showrooms where customers can see the entire range of products on sales price.
These showrooms are based on active sites using multiple garage units that can be moved to new locations as required.
Even the best designed products do not sell themselves, and our wellinformed and highly motivated sales teams are a key component of our Solutions has been extremely popular with customers and the service success.
We are currently running a pilot scheme in the West Midlands has steadily expanded since its inception.
Over the last two years we which will enable our sales negotiators to acquire a new professional have doubled our resources to meet demand and the range of products qualification that recognises their skills.
This National Vocational has been expanded to offer customers even more choice.
Although not Qualification NVQ in Sale of Residential Property was only approved for core to the financial success of a site, which is dependent on the right national use last summer, and six of our people are taking part in the pilot balance of land and product, Westbury Direct makes a significant programme.
The results so far are very encouraging and we plan to make contribution to higher revenue and profits.
This year it earned in excess it available to more employees next year, in line with our long-standing of 2.75 million.
goal of developing every Westbury employee to his or her full potential.
Further added value is provided through Incresco, which assists In common with other leading customer-facing businesses, we realise customers in finding and organising the most suitable mortgage for that the customer has a choice, and that extra service and attention to them.
Incresco complements our one-stop-shop service for Westbury detail are often critical in securing a sale against competition from customers and offers home-related financial services in the open market.
One of our key points of difference has been Incresco IFA staff can also advise, independently and impartially, on the development of Westbury Directs Solutions range to provide a insurance and other mortgage-related products.
Customers can access manageable and attractive range of choices to enable customers to tailor Increscos services using the medium of their choice, from face-to-face their homes to their own tastes.
These packaged options, combined with appointments to self-service via the internet.
Internet based business has the ability to buy competitively priced white goods, provide us with a grown rapidly this year as a result of expanding the range of online powerful sales tool.
A new line of business is being developed through affinity marketing to mailing lists of customers for relevant goods and services.
Enquiries are handled through a call centre and the Incresco 1.
Renaissance homes are very popular with our customers.
telesales team follows up to offer customers a personal service.
We are supporting our show homes Sales Information Centres with Solutions showrooms, offering customers a range of options for their new home.
Brownfield developments in urban centres are now a significant part of our portfolio.
The room in the roof is a popular feature on many developments.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 21 Westbury people People are vital to Westbury we invest in our employees for the long term.
The acquisition of Prowting created a major challenge this year for our Westbury achieves this is by retaining excellent staff, with job satisfaction people and our systems.
However, our experience with other acquisitions being the key to such retention.
We obtain formal feedback from our staff provided us with an effective framework for integrating the business with through the Investors in People review, which we voluntarily undertake minimum disruption.
A cross functional team was put in place to co-ordinate on an annual basis, with assessors interviewing staff on a random basis.
Westbury staff once again showed their exceptional This review confirmed that our staff share our values, and regard us as commitment in all areas of our business to ensure that the integration professional, with a culture of honesty and integrity.
to Westbury systems was achieved efficiently and ahead of programme.
We are most appreciative of the efforts of all involved.
Regrettably some Good internal communication is reinforced through team co-operation job losses were inevitable, but every effort was made to redeploy staff and participation, so that staff feel empowered in their work, supported where possible.
We welcome all of our new colleagues who have joined by the management team, and can take a real pride in what they do.
us through Prowting, many with long experience of our industry.
Initiatives such as our Employee of the Month and Employee of the Year awards also contribute to a culture in which individual effort and Prowting has many long-serving valued members of staff.
We held a dinner achievement are recognised and rewarded.
In 2002, we were delighted to recently for those with over 20 years of service, recognising their continued become the first major housebuilder to gain entry to the Sunday Times commitment following the amalgamation of the two companies.
list of The 100 Best Companies to Work For.
Due to the Prowting acquisition, the rules precluded us from taking part in this survey in 2003, Change is not always easy and we are delighted with the way all the people but we look forward to participating again next year.
in the enlarged group have supported the merging of Westbury and Prowting operations.
We ran induction programmes for Prowting staff in Last year we invested 4,000 man-days in training our staff, and our both the South West and South East regions, which were presented by budget for the current year is 1 million.
We take a long term view on the Westbury directors.
In addition, we have provided specific intensive management development and formally plan for succession within the training for the sales groups to familiarise them with Westbury practices organisation in all key areas.
Our high level training programmes also and systems, together with training the build teams on Space4 put significant emphasis on developing our managers as coaches.
way they are able to provide informal training to their team, often on a one-to-one basis, ensuring that training is disseminated widely and that Good relationships with customers, planning departments, land owners, we encourage a culture of learning within Westbury.
contractors and the local community are essential.
One of the ways 12 3 4 22 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 Our training programmes are inclusive and cover all areas of our Last year, only 746 people applied to study for a degree in Construction business.
We regularly run Skills Review Workshops and Management Management, compared with the 29,000 who applied for Business Studies.
Development programmes to help our people to identify the skills needed to become a more effective manager through individual training Even among construction graduates, housing is often not seen as the plans.
We also run courses to improve the skills of our sales and most challenging option, despite its entrepreneurial nature and the great construction teams, and also for our subcontractors.
With the latter there scope that a company like Westbury can offer for personal development is particular focus on training in Health and Safety issues and in Space4 within a relatively fast and well-rewarded career path.
Skills are in short assembly.
supply not only among graduates, but at every level within our industry.
The continuing shortage of skilled labour on site is the key obstacle to We are developing new skills to reflect our growing commitment and meeting production targets throughout the housebuilding sector.
This responsibilities to the environment and sustainable development.
Our has been a key driver behind the development of Space4.
site managers today require the capability to manage and co-ordinate disciplines as varied as health and safety, demolition, decontamination, We are also paying close attention to the long-term development of ecology, transportation, redeployment, social sustainability, drainage, the labour pool for our industry, through initiatives such as West regions noise and masterplan design.
This has required us to equip them with sponsorship of On Site Bristol, a project of apprentice training for young new skills to augment their background knowledge, typically of people in trade skills.
We also expect to expand across the Group the construction and engineering, and with training opportunities to apprenticeship training scheme pioneered by our South West region.
enhance their skills in leadership, project management, negotiation and community participation.
The pictures below demonstrate some individual achievements.
1 In 2002, Westbury was the first major housebuilder to be included We have recently developed a new model for the training of our site in the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For guide a notable managers, which now includes project management as an integral part accolade complementing our renewed Investors in People accreditation.
In addition, this training also covers the communication 2 Dave Brown and Ian Latham received the nationally recognised skills required in dealing with customers and subcontractors, and RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety Award Bronze level on behalf efficient time management.
Last year, ten of our project, technical and of Westbury South West formerly Prowting, recognising its improvement construction managers also took part in the Construction Project in health and safety management procedures and systems.
3 Roger Evans Management course sponsored by the Construction Industry Training acted as a tour guide to show off Space4 to interested visitors.
Space4 Board at the University of Reading.
completed its 1000th house in February 2003.
4 Ron Spence right receives his health and safety site manager of the year award from The Westbury graduate recruitment programme has demonstrated its Homes Deputy Managing Director Colin Cole in November 2002. success with a number of former graduates being appointed into 5 Roger Middleton centre and Andy Weller not featured both management positions throughout the group.
Nine new graduates joined from South West, have received Top 100 Seal of Excellence Awards the scheme at our most recent intake, having completed degrees in from the NHBC in the 2002 Pride in the Job Awards.
Roger went on subjects including Building Surveying, Construction Management, Business to scoop the South West Regional Award.
6 Steve Gwilliam from the Studies, Business Management and Economics.
This year, we are aiming South Wales region and 7 Nigel Pestell, representing Northampton, to attract two graduates for each of our ten regions, an ambitious target were also two of the many Health and Safety award winners.
given the national shortage of young people interested in our sector.
5 6 7 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 23 The extra mile 12 3 Westbury continues to encourage a culture of support for charitable latest range of house designs.
We increasingly encourage community causes and local community involvement.
involvement at an early stage of site development in order to ensure that our plans are in tune with the wishes of local residents.
In the case In July 2000, we launched a three-year corporate partnership with The of Ashford and Shaftesbury, for example, we have participated in British Heart Foundation.
As well as Group donations to the charity, community planning days with council officers, environmental agencies, Westbury staff across the country have organised their own imaginative utilities providers and local residents.
Some of the money raised has been used to purchase a defibrillator a vital piece of medical equipment used to We feel that rather than impose our preconceived plans on the local resuscitate heart attack victims within each region.
In addition, community, we should engage with all parties to understand their needs Westbury ensures that each new homeowner receives BHF information and incorporate their ideas wherever possible.
These meetings are often packs on healthy eating, exercise and activities for children.
followed by open evenings where local residents can discuss the plans for a particular site with representatives from Westbury, architects and Regional offices have also supported a range of locally based charities.
For example Riding for the Disabled in Southern region.
South East and South West regions raised over 1,400 for Breast Cancer charities in the Once building work commences, we aim to minimise disruption to course of the year.
There is always healthy competition for the London local residents and endeavour to keep them informed of progress.
Even Marathon places funded by Westbury each year and those taking part at this stage we try to involve the local community in the project.
Recent are generously supported by their colleagues.
examples include resident involvement in street naming, and school projects where children put forward their ideas to decorate a room in a Wherever our developments are located, Westbury aims to build not just show house.
individual homes, but a feeling of community, ably demonstrated by our 1.
Personal motivation to help good causes is high among 45 staff at Westbury.
Kevin Herriot, a Southern region carpenter, joined a team that raised 8000 for the British Heart Foundation through a sponsored cycle ride... 2.... and group marketing manager, Sarah Oliver, raised 400 for MacMillan Cancer Relief after completing a charity run.
Many of our regions have excellent relationships with schools in their local communities.
Support for the British Heart Foundation continues across the Group from the presentation of life saving equipment to the Dartmoor Rescue Team by South West region... 5.... to personal fundraising activities by staff such as Jos Ferreira in Cardiff who shaved his locks to raise 500 for the charity.
24 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 Westbury has real commitment to creating sustainable communities.
I love my home and so does Tiny.
Were going to live here forever.
