hotels!Whitbread Alan Parker Managing Director, Whitbread Hotel Company All of our effort this year has gone into improving our delivery: to our customers: throughout every level of our operation: and ultimately in our revenue generation.
We have been more resilient to the market downturn and are now better placed to profit from economic recovery Alan Parker looks back over the last 12 months at Whitbread Hotel Companys Marriott business and sees more positives than others might expect.
Its been a pretty tough year.
The market was looking to a recovery in the second half, which never really came through, and a few people might have been caught out by that.
In amongst some pretty bad news, weve been able to improve our own performance.
One headline is that profit per room in Marriott is now approaching parity with the very best in the four-star sector, and as Parker stresses: Weve improved our position, while the others have been falling.
Hes 20% at pains to point out that this has been an all-round effort.
Time and again though he returns to four key factors, all stemming from smart and determined management, which have driven Marriotts resilience.
yield premium page 10 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Persuading business people to choose Marriott for work AND leisure has enabled the brand to remain focused on its prime market page 11 hotels!Whitbread Golf helps Marriott attract both conference guests and leisure guests for weekend breaks Agility First is the fact that Marriott seems to have been quicker off the mark than others in spotting where the market dynamics were leading in the wake of September 11 and in adapting to changing conditions.
We looked at the whole of our operation and took some big decisions quickly restructuring and re-engineering key elements of the way we do business.
Weve taken significant costs out of the business, without damaging our quality of delivery in any way.
Asked what he means by significant, he simply shrugs, About 10 million out of our operating costs.
We saw that, although the business travel market might not be coming back at the levels any of us would have wanted, we could still maintain our focus on the UK business traveller.
It was, he says, a subtle, but significant shift.
Basically, we felt, and still do, that the UK domestic market would open up as our customers began to think differently about where to travel to and where to stay.
Which explains the second of the four The Marriott network is main factors.
truly national, and not so dependent on the London Brand value market, which has been hit hardest by the downturn.
Persuading business people to choose Marriott for work and leisure has enabled the brand to remain focused on its prime market.
We have a tremendous strength in the brand Forbes magazine rates Marriott as its most admired hotel brand and weve extended that appeal by tapping more of the potential of our hotels.
The fact that Marriott is one of the biggest owners of golf-courses in the UK, for example, creates an opportunity to build business.
This year we will host the British Masters at the Marriott Forest of Arden as part of a three year deal.
And we aim to stage at least one big tournament every year for the next decade.
The logic is that, as well as encouraging golf tourism, the heightened profile will give Marriotts Country Club hotels an edge in the conferencing market.
This in turn Improving customer and stimulates leisure breaks as delegates return for long employee satisfaction levels while making cost reductions weekends with their families.
of 10 million is testimony to the unique commitment at Whitbread Hotel Company.
page 12 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Our customer and associate satisfaction scores are at record highs The only segment of our sector thats showing any real Unlike some operators, weve kept up our commitment signs of buoyancy is UK domestic leisure travel and we're to training.
General managers and department heads positioning the Marriott brand deliberately to take are the backbone of our business, so dedicating advantage of that trend.
something like 23,000 hours to management training during this last period doesnt seem strange to us.
Transformation Parker stresses that this training has been pragmatic The strength of that brand is revealed in the third of rather than theoretical with the focus on how to Parkers factors the conversion of the Swallow hotels sharpen up operationally at all levels of the business.
business that Whitbread acquired in 2000.
In three years One of the most successful initiatives has been Spirit we have added 24 properties to the Marriott business to Sell an attempt to improve profit per room by through the Swallow transformation programme.
increasing revenue from ancillary services.
The first tranche of converted hotels has already Spirit to Sell has been incredibly successful.
Its made boosted room yield by 15% points and theres more all of our people understand that simple things like to come.
that additional aperitif, or making guests feel like staying an extra half hour in the bar, can really make Weve done well, but were only just getting started.
We'five asked our associates how they can Were working on the basis of another 10% points drive our service levels so high that guests want to worth of value to be realised, and that only puts the indulge themselves a bit more and their passion for whole network on an even keel.
We are in good shape the business has taken on a new dimension.
to benefit when the sector picks up again.
Ready for the upturn People making the difference Parker takes us to the fourth and final success factor: Parker points to the fact that, while the market might the Marriott people, literally, the personification of be depressed at the moment, the underlying trend for the brand.
Their role has been pivotal in creating UK hotels is upward.
He is a firm believer that tough value through their everyday dealings with customers times have brought the best out of his business.
in the toughest trading environment most of them Theres absolutely no doubt that we have emerged a have ever known.
much stronger, fitter business as a result of management And, at the same time, our customer and associate action and first-class delivery, says Parker.
We expect satisfaction scores are at record highs, beams Parker.
to generate more value even in a flat market.
When the If that sounds like the squaring of a circle, he believes upturn does come, well be the best-placed brand to theres a logical explanation.
profit quickly and with sustainability.
All Whitbreads Marriott hotels provide conference facilities page 13 hotels!Whitbread We have taken a beautifully simple idea and placed it at the heart of our business.
In every one of nearly 300 Travel Inns we aim to give our customers everything they want for a good nights sleep Simplicity.
Its the one word that, for Carl Leaver, sums up Travel Inn.
Perhaps, but the creation of the UKs largest and most successful Carl Leaver hotel brand is no ordinary achievement.
Managing Director, Travel Inn When you have such an uncomplicated business dynamic, its important to find the elements of differentiation that drive competitive advantage.
Our philosophy focuses on addressing the basic human need for rest and relaxation.
This is what drives our business: its what has made us the most popular hotel brand in the country.
His claim is difficult to refute.
In 2002 3, Whitbread Hotel Companys Travel Inn was the only major UK hotel brand to boost both occupancy 82% and room rate.
As a result, Leaver finished the year with like-for-like sales up by over 6%, profit ahead by 11% and a further improvement in return on capital.
occupancy page 14 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Demand for our brand regularly outstrips supply.
Travel Inns popularity is driving the creation of a 25,000 bedroom business page 15 hotels!Whitbread Meeting rooms, a business lounge and hot desks are all provided at Touchbase, the purpose built facility now being extended to more Travel Inns.
One analyst has captured market sentiment towards Total satisfaction, total confidence the business in praising it for like-for-like sales growth Perhaps the boldest move of all was the introduction which is unlikely to be matched by any major lodging of Travel Inns 100% Satisfaction Guarantee a zerobusiness in the world.
quibble pledge to refund immediately and in full if guests are not entirely happy with their stay.
Now in Smart technology its third year, it has proved an enormous success both In the summer of 2002, Travel Inn launched a unique operationally and in terms of building brand loyalty.
But didnt the very idea give Leaver sleepless nights?
The beauty is its simplicity, says Leaver, we have one Yes, he smiles, it was a brave decision, but we really system that holds live data on the entire room inventory felt that we had no other choice.
It was the ultimate in the Travel Inn network.
In other words, we can see at test of our promise of a good nights sleep for every a glance how many rooms we have available in every guest.
If we couldnt make that guarantee, we would single Travel Inn from Truro to Inverness.
have to reconsider our core philosophy and that was unthinkable.
If we cant book a customer into their first choice location, we can immediately suggest other Travel Today, Leaver can state with authority that 99.5% of Inns in the area.
And this is true whether the customer Travel Inn customers are completely satisfied with the is booking in person at the Travel Inn, over the phone brand.
The money refunded to the 0.5% of customers or via the internet.
who do invoke the guarantee, Leaver calls the best investment we could ever make.
We now have fewer In the first six months of operation over 120,000 problems and those we do have, we fix faster.
We get rooms were cross-sold this way, generating 6 million more honest feedback from our customers and we of revenue.
At the same time, Travel Inn re-launched get it instantly.
Where guests do not get what they its website, in line with a more aggressive approach expected they get their money back straight away, to web marketing.
At 14% of overall bookings, we were already selling proportionately more rooms via the web than any A brand on the rise other hotelier, but we knew we could improve.
We Looking after customers for the long run is already made navigation easier in order to encourage brand paying dividends, as evidenced by the occupancy loyalty.
In the first four months we have increased growth last year.
And its a brand that is becoming internet bookings to over 18% of all reservations.
increasingly well known, with unprompted awareness leaping from 17% to 35% inside two years.
We have backed up our operational excellence with some smart brand communications, such as our latest billboard advertising campaign.
Travel Inns new advertising campaign has helped push awareness of the brand to 35%.
page 16 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Our unique reservation system has generated 1 million per month through onward referrals from one Travel Inn to another At 18% Travel Inns internet booking levels are the highest by far in the sector.
In 2002, Travel Inn made a concerted assault on the More to come domestic business travel market with the launch of the According to latest research, the UK budget hotel Travel Inn Business Account.
It gives companies a central sector is still at least a decade away from maturity.
itemised invoicing service for employees staying at Despite our growth rate and despite the fact that Travel Inns across the UK, but does not offer discounts.
we now cross-sell far more rooms than ever before, It was important to protect the integrity and simplicity demand for our product still regularly outstrips of the Travel Inn brand model, says Leaver.
reassuring for our customers to know that they pay In May 2003, the largest Travel Inn to date will open the same price as every other guest staying on the at Heathrow its 590 bedrooms makes it the largest same night in the same Travel Inn.
budget hotel anywhere in the UK.
With more large The business account now generates 1 million of Capital and Metro projects now open or nearing revenue every month for Travel Inn and co-located completion at ExCel in Londons Docklands, Liverpool Whitbread restaurants like Brewers Fayre, Brewsters and Sheffield, Travel Inn is closing in on its goal of and Beefeater.
So what comes next for Travel Inn?
Creating new opportunities Scale is a major driver of value, says Leaver.
In 1998, Finding new opportunities also contributes to growth.
recognising the massive potential of the budget hotel The brands joint venture with the Spirit pub company sector, Whitbread set a target of increasing the size and its management contract with motorway services of its Travel Inn estate from around 10,000 to 25,000 group, RoadChef have already added 1,500 Travel Inn bedrooms.
The business has sped towards this goal.
The fastest The fact that other retailers want to work with us is growing hotel brand in the land adding on average testament to the strength of our brand, says Leaver, 1,500 bedrooms each year has become the biggest quoting the example of RoadChef, where room yield hotel brand in the land, with more than 16,600 rooms.
rose by over 25% following re-branding.
And 2003 will see more innovation, including Touchbase, the purpose-built meetings centres developed alongside Travel Inns.
Following successful trials at Hemel Hempstead, Swindon and Mansfield, Leaver now believes that Touchbase will do for the meetings market what Travel Inn has done for the accommodation market and is adding another 15 sites this year.
Its another simplebusiness, but somehow simplicity is something that Leaver and Whitbread do best.
page 17 restaurants!Whitbread Bill Shannon Managing Director, Whitbread Restaurants Our brands outperform the market because we understand more about peoples changing preferences in why, where and when they want to eat and because we can meet those demands better than anyone else Bill Shannon explains how it is that the majority of his restaurant brands are the very best at what they do.
His approach typifies the Whitbread focus on identifying consumer trends, covering the majority of the market with a minimum of brands and an emphasis on scale.
We dont want to play outside the mainstream.
Were very successful in the large, mass-market, informal dining business, says Shannon.
Against an industry backdrop of flat to negative sales growth, Whitbread Restaurants has improved like-for-like sales by 2% and generated serious double-digit profits growth.
Over the past 12 months, across the board increases on comparable sales and margin have enabled the division to up its return on capital employed.
page 18 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Over 140 Brewsters restaurants are now proving the success of the fun for kids, relaxing for parents approach.
page 19 restaurants!Whitbread Great coffee in the places our customers want it is the key to Costas success.
Smarter location selection means we dont waste money on expensive High Street rents Shannon is adamant that this is no blip:The brands Its approach to customer relationship management that we have in our portfolio have been delivering has revolved around the iconic Brewster the Bear: these levels of improvement now for the past three Each year 880,000 children receive a birthday card reporting periods.
from Brewster and many choose to celebrate their big day with him.
With the dining out market predicted to grow by 23% over the next five years, the divisions current trading At Beefeater, while he concedes that the challenge performance suggests that the best is yet to come.
has been different, the methodology remains exactly the same.
Consistency and individuality We have known for some time now that Beefeater Were in a position now to capitalise on all the work needed to be re-energised.
We have tried doing certain weve put into the last couple of years, says Shannon, things differently in a number of Beefeater research and to see the results of ensuring a common and development sites.
Because of this we are now approach to running our businesses.
incorporating the most popular innovations into a Each brand is subject to Shannons five-point mantra: new Beefeater model that is better positioned to give customers compelling reasons to visit: always take advantage of market growth.
deliver ahead of their expectations: make the business This is at the heart of the matter:Building brand a great place to work: run your operation with reputations to encourage people to visit us and efficiency and professionalism: and where each one then delivering a service that lives up to and exceeds of these criteria is met, where there is clear demand that reputation.
and the returns are high, unlock further value through expansion.
For Shannon, this is entirely down to the calibre of those working in the businesses.
If you cant recruit He picks out Brewsters, his star performer, as an and retain great people, the rest is irrelevant, he says.
example of how this approach works.
In a little over Our biggest single success in 2003 has been two-and-a-half years, Brewsters has laid claim to a in getting our people really engaged in their work.
unique position in the UK restaurant market.
It is already the best performing pub restaurant chain in the country and were only just getting started.
Over the past year, Brewsters has made effective use of television and radio advertising in selected regions to strengthen brand perceptions with its target market of young families.
The innovative menu mix at TGI Fridays, including Jack Daniels Three For All sharing appetizer, creates high Pizza Hut Express the new demand and high value meals.
take-away outlet from Britains biggest pizza brand.
page 20 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Brewers Fayre is the UKs leading pub restaurant brand and increasing its lead.
Measures of success Individual brands have received very public recognition of their work in this area: none more so than TGI Fridays, which in 2003 ranked 3 1st and 52nd in roll-calls of top UK employers compiled by respectively the Financial Smarter thinking Times and the Sunday Times.
Over the past three years, Costa has defined the Across Whitbread Restaurants the number of employees profitable coffee shop model, through co-location who claim to enjoy their work rose by 10% points.
There with third-party retailers, including Waterstones, is now not a single brand scoring under 85% against Ottakars and WH Smiths bookshops: Homebase: this measure.
Virgin Megastores: branches of Abbey National: and attractions under the Tussauds group such as Alton The impact on the bottom line is significant.
Towers, The London Eye and Madame Tussauds We reduced employee turnover by 7% over the year.
This means that taken as a whole we have a more committed and more expert workforce than we did The strength of the brand has led to franchise a year ago and we have greater control over costs agreements both at home, with the motorway related to recruitment and training.
services group, RoadChef and overseas, with around 150 stores due to open in the Middle East.
Increasing performance Meanwhile a significant element of Pizza Huts drive This is part of what Shannon calls the faster, better, from 500 outlets to 750 will be fuelled by home lower costapproach which is helping to generate delivery franchises.
And it has taken a lead from Costa higher performance from each of the restaurant brands.
in the development of express take-away outlets in You cannot re-invent your brands every three or four principal rail stations.
years in a constant attempt to follow consumer trends Conversely, Shannon has shown that he will not shy and chase growth its simply not sustainable.
The away from making tough decisions if brands do not most important innovations are the incremental ones perform.
Over the last two years, he has shrunk the those everyday ideas that act as minor adjustments under-performing Beefeater pub restaurant business to boost performance.
In the past year over 90% of our profit improvement There may come a time when Beefeater starts to has come from running our existing businesses better.
grow again, but I would need firm evidence of value That said, there remains a clear expansion agenda for creation.
And that means getting performance up to the majority of Whitbreads restaurant brands but the levels we are seeing in our other pub restaurant it is a right that must be earned.
company will add new outlets to its Brewsters, Brewers The last few years have been exciting, interesting and Fayre, Pizza Hut and Costa businesses.
at times just plain tough for his team at Whitbread We are, quite simply, smarter at finding development Restaurants:Weve had to sell a number of underopportunities, because we dont view individual performing businesses but we have also shown that brands in isolation and are prepared to consider the we are capable of running restaurant businesses unorthodox, explains Shannon.
better than any of our direct competitors.
We will work in tandem with Travel Inn to grow Brewers Fayre and Brewsters, while Pizza Hut and Costa will continue to seek out and nurture partnering arrangements.
page 21 club!Whitbread The more you put into something the more you get out of it.
Its what our personal trainers tell our members.
Its true in sport, its true in life and its true in business Sitting in the clubroom at David Lloyd Leisure in Epsom, Stewart Miller reflects on another strong performance from his business in what has been a difficult year for many in the fitness industry.
Stewart Miller Managing Director, While others have stumbled, David Lloyd Leisures steady like-for-like sales David Lloyd Leisure growth has provided the springboard for a stunning 26% rise in operating profits and, critically, for the second year in succession, more than a full percentage point improvement in return on capital employed.
The first thing you have to understand is that David Lloyd Leisure is not like any other business.
It is not a gym, although we have some of the largest and best equipped gyms in Europe: it is not a tennis centre, although we are the UKs number one tennis operator.
These facilities help to define us, but they are not who we are.
page 22 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 Families are our business.
We plan activities that allow parents to follow their own interests while the children are developing their skills the club atmosphere that is unique to David Lloyd Leisure brings it all together 76% member retention highest in sector page 23 club!Whitbread Above all else, David Lloyd Leisure is a club.
We provide a framework for how our members choose to spend their free time.
It doesnt have to be about working out or playing tennis.
Indeed, given the proliferation of David Lloyd Leisure jazz evenings, running clubs, ski trips, triathlon groups and foreign language classes, its a surprise that some members find time to make it to the gym at all.
Relationships are everything We give people more reasons to join David Lloyd We dont work on the maximum person throughput basis.
At our clubs, people Leisure and more reasons to stay with us, says Miller.
stay longer, bring more of their family This is why we are able to grow sales within our and do more things with us existing club base and why our member retention rates are around 16% points higher than the industry average.
He is clear that the businesss decision to target families has been a key factor in its success.
The club runs the largest junior tennis programme in Europe some 8,000 children learn to smash, volley and serve in his clubs every week : while the recently launched High Fives Club has opened up a wide range of activities for younger members.
We like to think that David Lloyd Leisure has something for everyone its very much an inclusive brand, he says.
The sheer scale of clubs which can accommodate indoor and outdoor tennis courts, squash courts, indoor and outdoor swimming pools, aerobics studios, nurseries and crches as well as large gyms is a significant competitive advantage.
However, the real strength of the business lies in is its approach to its 6.1% members.
like-for-like sales growth, year-over-year Fit for growth In 2002, David Lloyd Leisure launched the Health and Fitness Experience, with the aim of strengthening retention levels by helping members to identify and achieve personal fitness goals.
At the same time, Miller also decided that personal fitness training qualifications would need to be standardised across the business.
In a genuine first for the UK fitness industry, the company brought in respected US sports organisation, the National Academy of Sports Medicine, to work with its own experts on the project.
David Lloyd Leisure employs fully-trained and professional staff throughout its clubs.
From tennis, to swimming to working-out, the motivation and instruction of members is key to their loyalty to the club.
page 24 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 In 2003, over 500 David Lloyd Leisure fitness professionals Raising the bar will graduate from Campus, the academy set up to At the same time, higher standards have been set facilitate the scheme.
The NVQ-level diplomas in fitness for the roll-out of new clubs.
training that they emerge with are linked, directly and Miller has set up a design efficiency team to examine transparently, to salary depending on how many of the ways to reduce the cost of club development.
The four grades of diploma have been achieved.
There is a resultant club model will require less land, be cheaper simple logic governing all of this, says Miller.
We know to run and cost around 1 million less to build, yet is as that our members and employees will only stay with us impressive and as commercially successful as for as long as they value what we give them.
anything that has gone before.
And we are building The steps we have taken this year give our members club membership faster.
Take this place, says Miller, quality-assurance and the very best in personal fitness with a sweep of the arm that takes in the Epsom clubs training, as well as the support and encouragement 7 tennis courts, 3 squash courts, swimming pools, that they need: while our employees get the chance to dance studios, spa and gym.
By the time we opened learn from the very best, to advance their careers and this club in August last year, over 3,000 members had to get more out of work.
signed up thats around four times as many as we used to expect.
A strengthening market He is a disciple of the companys rigorous approach to Meanwhile, the business stands to benefit from a investment and knows that for David Lloyd Leisure to predicted rise in the personal training market.
As Miller continue to grow it has to earn the right to do so.
This points out, it is still a massively under-exploited revenue is a returns-focused business.
Every major investment stream, with just 1.5% of UK gym users having personal decision we make is determined by whether or not it is training, compared with around 10% in the USA.
value enhancing for our shareholders and our members.
Indeed while physical growth of the business remains There are no doubts that there are still huge a key priority 100 clubs is the target by the end of opportunities in the UK for the health and fitness club the decade Whitbread sees exciting value creation industry and that David Lloyd Leisure is in the perfect opportunities within David Lloyd Leisures existing position to exploit predicted market growth.
is not a headlong scramble for market share.
The goal has been to redefine the fundamental David By building the right clubs in the right places, by Lloyd Leisure business model to drive additional growth looking after the needs of our members and by out of existing clubs and to bring new clubs to retaining and developing our best people we are profitability faster.
building a business that is capable of creating and Clubs that had previously been considered mature sustaining significant value for Whitbread investors.
have been tasked with improving yield through a focus on attracting more off-peak members.
This has led to a growth in classes aimed at young families and retired people, who typically might be interested in using a club outside of the busy evening and weekend periods.
And as clubs strengthen the bond with their members, the opportunities to grow revenue increase commensurately:on tennis coaching, on fitness training and on food and drink.
Club lounges are the new locals for members, many of whom choose to just drop in, regardless of whether they have other activities planned.
