Vanadium Markets The supply demand balance in vanadium improved substantially from the beginning of 2003 due to cut backs in primary vanadium production at Xstratas Windimurra and Vantech plants, disruptions in Russian supply, and improved demand in China, curtailing their exports of vanadium.
Global production of crude steel increased by 6.9% for the eleven months to November, with the major contributor being China, where production was up 21.5%, and where the percentage utilisation of vanadium per tonne of steel continues to grow.
These factors have steadily improved market sentiment towards vanadium and signicantly improved prices.
The Metal Bulletin average price for ferrovanadium FeV for 2003 was US$11.5 kg, 48% up from 2002s average of US$7.7 kg.
Prices have continued to climb, moving above US$17 kg in January 2004.
As South Africa represents approximately 40% of world vanadium production, the strength of the South African rand has also been a factor placing upward pressure on prices.
However, supply side restraint is still the critical factor in the market and with mothballed production, including Xstratas Windimurra plant, still uneconomic at current US dollar exchange rates, the outlook for vanadium in 2004 is positive.
Operations Turnover for the year was down just over 7% to US$70.8 million from US$76.4 million, principally reecting the significant decrease in sales volumes of Vanadium Pentoxide V O, down more than 66% as a result of operational suspensions 2 5 at Windimurra and Vantech.
At the earnings level, the benets of increased vanadium prices and a reduction of unit costs Financial and Operational Data: Vanadium Xstrata Xstrata Year ended Year ended US$m 31.12.03 31.12.02 Turnover 70.8 76.4 EBITDA 1.9 10.4 Depreciation & Amortisation 5.6 3.3 EBIT 7.5 7.1 Attributable net assets 140.4 122.6 Capital Employed 140.8 122.8 % Share Group EBIT 1.7 % 0.9% % Share Group Net Assets 2.1% 2.5% Return on Capital Employed 6.0 % 7.1% Capital Expenditure 5.4 1.1 Sustaining 0.7 0.3 Expansionary 4.7 0.8 Attributable Saleable Production V O k lbs 29,029 41,333 2 5 Ferrovanadium k kg 7,317 6,458 Indicative Average Published Prices V O US$ lb Metal Bulletin 2.22 1.34 2 5 Ferrovanadium US$ kg V Metal Bulletin 11.47 7.74 Excludes Ravenswood and discontinued operations Avonmouth, Duisburg and Magnesium ROCE % based on average exchange rates for the period Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 39 ALLOYS EBIT Variance: Vanadium US$m EBIT 31.12.02 pre-exceptionals 7.1 Sales price 16.2 Volumes 7.2 Unit cost real 5.6 Unit cost ination 2.4 Unit cost foreign exchange 22.9 Windimurra standing cost 3.1 Depreciation and amortisation excluding foreign exchange 0.8 EBIT 31.12.03 pre-exceptionals 7.5 in real terms of US$5.6 million could not offset the negative impacts of a stronger South African rand and lower volumes.
As a consequence, EBIT was down US$14.6 million period on period, to a loss of US$7.5 million.
It is worth noting, however, that despite these adverse conditions, the Rhovan operation posted an operating profit of US$1.3 million.
The plant continues to achieve excellent operational results, with a monthly record production of 840 tonnes of V O in December and an average daily production of some 22.6 tonnes for the year.
Due to market 2 5 conditions output at Vantech was restricted to eight tonnes per day during the latter half of 2003.
Following the anticipated depletion of the Kennedys Vale ore deposit in December 2003, it was decided to place the Vantech operation into care and maintenance and to postpone development of the Steelpoortdrift deposit.
As with Windimurra, the care and maintenance programme focuses on the rehabilitation of the mine area and equipment, with the added advantage that Vantech personnel and facilities will be utilised to the fullest extent possible in the development of the new Lion Project in Xstrata Chrome.
Developments Capital expenditure of US$5.4 million in 2003 is mainly associated with the ongoing development of the vanadium trioxide V O plant and furnace project at Rhovan.
Commissioning of the V O project, which will materially reduce aluminium 2 3 2 3 consumption, started only at the end of October.
It is expected that full commercial production levels will be achieved during the first half of 2004, with resulting improvement in costs and efficiencies.
Dirk Opperman, Mechanical Supervisor of the ATCOM dragline Carmen Badenhorst, Electrician at ATC, repairing a section of underground cable Mbekezeli Madonsela, Operator, driving a front end loader underground at ATC Rob Marsh right and Cliffy Nibbs left, Operators at Newlands open cut 40 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 COAL COAL Markets European and South African Thermal Coal Markets 2003 was characterised by unprecedented volatility in Atlantic export coal prices.
In the first half of the year average export prices were 12% lower than in the same period in 2002, while volume was up 9%.
However, higher export prices were secured in the second half of the year as the market tightened.
Spot prices, approximately US$27.50 t at the start of 2003, fell to a low of US$23.0 t in the second quarter mainly due to high levels of availability, particularly from Colombia, being unmatched by demand from customers who sought to avoid prevailing high freight rates.
However, delayed purchases and stock reductions by customers proved unsustainable, resulting in a rebound in demand towards the end of the first half of 2003.
This coincided with the diversion of much of Colombias increased production to meet solid US demand, and constrained supply out of South Africa due to some rail capacity bottlenecks.
The market tightened further during Europes summer heatwave, which accelerated the drawdown of coal stocks.
High freight rates in the second half, which constrained the ability of Asian producers to feed the European market, together with widely anticipated closures of export production in Poland contributed to a surge in spot prices through the US$30.0 t level and up to over US$38.0 t in the second half of the year.
The momentum of the Atlantic market was reinforced by the rapid increase in thermal coal prices in the Pacic, which also nished the year above US$38.0 t levels.
Continuing strong demand, restrained growth from Colombia, expectations of further withdrawal of Polish production and the absence of significant new supply into Europe is expected to maintain positive pressure on coal prices in the first half of 2004.
The volatility in the thermal markets has led to increasing demand from buyers for longer term and annual contracts.
Spot prices FOB Richards Bay have traded above US$40.0 t since January 2004 reecting the tightness in physical supply and the high proportion of physical sales already concluded under contract, with some producers almost completely sold out for 2004.
As at the end of January 2004, Xstrata Coal South Africa had sold and priced some 60% of 2004 export sales into the rising market.
The South African domestic market was strong in 2003, with tight higher-grade supply resulting in opportunities to move lower-grade product.
Long-term Eskom contract sales volumes, from the Douglas Taylor Joint Venture, were 8% lower than the previous year, while prices increased by 4%.
Other domestic sales volumes rose 4% year-on-year, with realised prices 3% up on 2002 despite a reduction in the average quality of saleable product.
Continuing delays in recommissioning a number of Japans nuclear reactors, due to ongoing safety concerns, led to greater reliance on coal-red power generation.
Outside of Japan, the Asian market grew at a steady rate of just under 5%.
Market conditions at the time of annual price negotiations led to a 7% reduction in the Tohoku Electric Power Company term contract price a reference price used by many long-term buyers of Australian coal set in March 2003 at US$26.75 t FOB Newcastle for the contract year beginning April 2003.
Supply problems in the major exporting countries feeding the Asian market prompted a rise in spot prices for thermal coal from US$25.0 t FOB Newcastle in early August to almost US$40.0 t by year end 74% up from its low of US$23.0 t in April.
The steady appreciation of the Australian dollar also put upward pressure on the US dollar price, as Australian suppliers sought to maintain acceptable margins.
44 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 China remains the most inuential and unpredictable factor affecting the Asian market.
This is due to its vast and rapidly growing coal production and consumption.
Chinese thermal coal export volumes increased by some 10% in 2003 over 2002, although the rate of increase peaked in September and fell off signicantly in the final quarter of the year.
Domestic demand continued to absorb the bulk of Chinas production increases, driven by ongoing growth in demand for power.
Indonesia maintained its recent strong growth, increasing exports by approximately 20%, while Australia remained the largest supplier to the region with almost 40% of market share.
The Pacic market was characterised by supply constraint in the latter half of the year that resulted in a steep and steady rise in the thermal coal spot price.
Disruptions to supply began with a mixture of safety related mine closures in Chinas Shanxi province in August, resulting in a number of delivery cancellations and postponements.
This was followed by a strike at the Kaltim Prima mine in Indonesia, worsening congestion at the port of Newcastle, a Chinese domestic supply shortfall as winter set in and ooding in Indonesia.
Korean customers, in particular, were caught short by Chinas supply problems, with their increasing reliance on spot purchases responsible for pushing up prices for prompt tonnage in the latter half of the year.
In addition to the movement in the spot price and currency uctuations, an increase in seaborne freight rates, partly due to the massive build-up in demand for vessels importing iron ore to China, also affected the market.
The freight rate differential between Newcastle and Richards Bay to Rotterdam rose from US$4.0 t to US$14.0 t slowing spot sales of Pacic coal into Europe, particularly from Australia, and heightening the disconnect between the Pacic and Atlantic markets.
About 80% of 2003 sales went to Asia, with the remainder going to Europe and Mexico.
Approximately 60% of Xstrata Coals Australian export sales were sold under term annual contracts, with the balance sold on the spot market.
This split is likely to be maintained in 2004.
Around 13% of Xstrata Coals 2003 Australian production was sold to local customers, which afforded a level of protection against the strengthening Australian dollar.
Approximately 91% of sales to the domestic market are under long-term contracts.
The outlook in the Asian market remains broadly positive, with continuing growth in thermal coal demand on the back of robust and increasing demand for electricity.
On the supply-side, booming demand in China is expected to absorb Chinas production growth in future years.
While Indonesia is expected to maximise its output, a large portion of this growth will Mario Macchia, Control Room Operator, monitoring cyclone pressures at the Macquarie Coal Preparation Plant A cutter head on a continuous miner in operation underground at ATC John Motaung works as a Miner underground at ATC Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 45 COAL be of inferior quality and or mined in higher-cost inland locations.
Taken together, these factors are unlikely to compromise the current strong demand for Australian coal.
Coking Coal Markets Due to a slight overhang of supply from Canada and, to a lesser extent, Australia, average contract prices for Queensland hard coking coal reduced to around US$46.0 t in the contract year beginning April 2003 a drop of around 4% on the previous years prices.
However, a global supply shortfall of quality hard coking coal developed as the year progressed.
Substantial increases in steel production in Asia and a severe shortage of Chinese coke exports saw coking coal producers inundated with requests for spot purchases.
Production difficulties experienced by some Queensland hard coking coal operations, including those acquired by Xstrata Coal from MIM, exacerbated the situation.
China was the driving force behind increased global steel production, with robust Japanese and Indian production directed to China to feed its escalating domestic demand.
China, a large producer of metallurgical coal, imported just over two million tonnes of hard coking coal in 2003, having imported almost nothing the prior year.
In addition, a number of Chinese mills signed unprecedented long-term contracts with Australian and Canadian suppliers of hard coking coal, a strong indication of ongoing supply tightness in that market.
At the same time, Chinas limited exports of hard coking coal all but ceased and even those of semi-soft coking coal were cut dramatically, making China almost single-handedly responsible for taking the world hard coking coal market from oversupply to undersupply in 2003.
At the beginning of the year, many Japanese mills started to replace semi-soft coal with hard coking coal to increase productivity from their furnaces and, as a consequence, Australian semi-soft coking coal contract prices fell in line with contract prices for thermal coal.
However, semi-soft coking coal demand received a boost during the second half of the year from the tight hard coking coal market with some non-Japanese steel-makers, who would normally not use this quality coal, obliged to accept the lower quality semi-soft coking coal.
The re at the Southland coal mine in New South Wales in late December 2003 will only serve to tighten availability of this product into 2004.
Asian customers accounted for just over 60% of Xstrata Coals hard coking coal sales, with a further 25% going to Europe and other sales into the Americas, Africa and the Middle East.
The Japanese mills, the dominant buyers of Xstrata Coals semisoft production, purchased over 70% of sales, with 40% of Xstrata Coals 2003 semi-soft production sold on the spot market throughout the year.
The outlook for the coking coal market in 2004 is positive.
significant price increases are expected in both hard and semi-soft coking coal term contracts, with price increases of between 25% and 28% already negotiated by some producers.
Due to the production difficulties experienced in the Queensland operations, contracted but undelivered 2003 sales will continue to be supplied at the 2003 contract price until the end of the second quarter.
Australian Thermal Consolidated production for the year, at 36.9 million tonnes, was 250,000 tonnes higher than 2002.
The year was characterised by weak spot prices and an appreciating Australian dollar and, in that environment, management continued to take responsible decisions to limit production at selected New South Wales operations, particularly where this also reduced operating costs.
Despite a significant reduction in operating costs in New South Wales, in real terms unit cash costs across Australian thermal operations remained constant compared with 2002.
The improved efficiencies and productivity in New South Wales, which helped compensate for the poor cost performance of the Queensland operations, was achieved despite increased demurrage 46 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 Xstrata MIM Pro forma EBIT Variance: Coal US$m US$m US$m EBIT 31.12.02 pre-exceptionals 230.2 185.6 415.8 Sales price 8.8 31.3 22.5 Foreign currency hedging gains 97.5 15.7 113.2 Volumes 19.5 41.3 21.8 Unit cost real 35.2 31.2 4.0 Unit cost ination 15.2 1.5 16.7 Unit cost foreign exchange 235.0 76.2 311.2 Depreciation and amortisation excluding foreign exchange 9.6 13.3 22.9 EBIT 31.12.03 pre-exceptionals 131.4 6.5 137.9 Pro forma includes MIM Group acquisition from 01.01.03 Pro forma includes MIM Group acquisitions from 01.01.02 costs of around US$0.80 per tonne.
The demurrage at the port of Newcastle resulted from rail capacity problems that are now being addressed by both government and industry representatives, but are likely to continue to be a feature of 2004.
Despite sales volumes being held in line with the previous year, EBIT decreased some 49% from US$178.9 million to US$90.8 million year-on-year, due to negative impacts of lower average prices and the appreciating Australian dollar.
In New South Wales total production levels were maintained despite the closure of the Cumnock underground mine in September, reductions in manning levels at West Wallsend and Baal Bone, scheduled two-week maintenance shutdowns at the Bulga Open Cut, Mt Owen and Liddell mines, and protracted enterprise agreement negotiations at Beltana.
Production levels were supported by increased productivities and the commencement of low-cost export production at Ravensworth East.
The net result was a 6% increase in coal production in New South Wales.
Thermal coal production in Queensland fell 15% year-on-year with 3% of this variance due to the change in ownership from 75% to 55% at the beginning of November 2003.
The major impact was at Newlands open cut where the completion of the Southern open cut in the first half constrained open cut production until the Eastern Creek area recommenced operation in the second half of the year.
Eastern Creek will deliver both thermal and coking coals at lower costs than previously achieved due to the purchase of a large dragline that is expected to deliver increased productivities.
Across the New South Wales operations, a number of projects to increase productivity and reduce operating costs were completed or commenced in 2003.
These projects will meet a large proportion of the future medium term growth with lower cost output, and include: the integration of Ravensworth East and Mt Owen Mines, which commenced in the latter half of 2003.
The first step in this project is the transformation of Ravensworth East from a domestic coal supplier to a profitable dual exportdomestic mine.
This integration will optimise resource recovery and enable efficient utilisation of capital through the shared use of existing major infrastructure.
Full benets accruing from the integration will be realised in 2004, with significant reductions in cost and increased production exibility: the benets of Beltana, a low cost, high productivity operation, started to be realised in the second half of 2003, following the commencement of full production in August.
However, the upside of this operation will be more apparent in 2004: Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 47 COAL Julie Minton, Operator at Newlands open cut, commencing day shift Abey Kraai, Colliery Manager ATC, discussing the mines Environmental Management Programme Report with Piet Wessels, Divisional Environmental Coordinator Longwall operations at Beltana underground mine commenced in June 2003 improvements at the Bulga open cut, including mine plan optimisation, productivity improvements, manning reductions and negotiation of a replacement enterprise agreement: renegotiation of the mining contract at Liddell open cut in the first half of 2003, with reduced contract costs per tonne: the introduction of longwall mining at United in 2002, which has improved productivity and reduced sustainable unit cash costs in real terms by some 34%: a new domestic coal supply contract for Baal Bone Colliery which, together with a reduction in workforce and the suspension of development work, will enable the mine to operate at signicantly reduced costs for its remaining life: and the closure of the high-cost underground operations at Cumnock in September 2003 and the continuation of lowercost contract open cut operations.
South Africa Thermal The decline in earnings compared to 2002 was principally driven by the considerable strengthening of the Rand throughout 2003, which was only partially mitigated by the small increase in average export coal price.
The Rand strengthened in 2003 to an average of ZAR7.54 to the US dollar from an average of ZAR10.50 in 2002.
The impact on US dollar costs, and hence earnings, was profound with the 28.2% strengthening of the Rand translating to a 39% increase in costs in US dollar terms.
This was compounded by the fact that the average export price in 2003 was only 1% higher than the previous year, at $24.91 t FOB, compared to $24.60 t FOB in 2002.
As a consequence, EBIT declined by US$81.2 million from US$102.9 million in 2002 to US$21.7 million in 2003.
Compared to 2002, production of saleable tonnage in 2003 increased by 3% from 16.3 million tonnes to 16.8 million tonnes.
However, placed in context of continuing and new operations, output actually increased by 6.5% following the closure of Rietspruit and Strathrae during 2002.
Sales increased year-on-year from 16.8 million tonnes to 18.0 million tonnes, or 7.1%, with a consequential reduction in stocks of 1.2 million tonnes.
48 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 significant operational achievements at underground operations in 2003 included the completion of the Boschmans underground upgrade project commissioned in January 2004, as well as the expansion of both the WitCons and Tavistock underground operations and coal beneficiation plants.
At the open cast mines, operational achievements included the relocation of the ATCOM dragline to the North Pit, following the depletion of economic reserves in the East Pit, and the commencement of mining operations at the new Goedgevonden Colliery.
Bottlenecks in the rail infrastructure constrained coal exports from South Africa, although this did not directly affect Xstrata Coals 2003 exports as port stocks and excellent logistics management mitigated the impact.
However, year-end saw signicantly reduced stock levels.
The continued strengthening of the Rand relative to the US dollar during the year impacted heavily on costs and is largely responsible for the decision to postpone some US$75 million of previously planned capital projects, including the South Witbank 5 Seam project and the project to replace the current 4 Seam operations at Waterpan Colliery, which will lead to a reduction in planned staffing levels.
Xstrata Coal will continue to focus on maximising output at low cost operations and will assess further closures of higher cost capacity.
Further revision of the companys short to medium-term operating plan and capital expenditure was necessitated by the delay in the Richards Bay Coal Terminal Phase V expansion project.
Despite this project not proceeding in 2003, good progress was made in negotiations with the National Ports Authority in this regard.
Coking Coal As foreshadowed at the half-year, production of coking coal for the full year, of 6.3 million tonnes, was down 22% on the 8.1 million tonnes of the previous year.
Total coking coal production in the second half continued to be negatively impacted by localised strata conditions at Oaky North and frictional ignition issues at Oaky No.
These issues were inherited and subsequently addressed by Xstrata Coal when it assumed management in the third quarter.
A methane drainage programme was promptly introduced involving both underground and surface inseam drainage.
Annual production was also affected by an extended longwall changeover time at Oaky North in the first half of 2003.
A reduction in Xstrata Coals ownership from 75% to 55%, following the sale of 20% of the Queensland coal assets at the beginning of November 2003, accounted for 2% of the variance.
These impacts were partially offset by increased but expensive open cut production, which together with the lower production volumes pushed local unit cash costs some 15% higher.
This increase, together with the rapid appreciation of the Australian dollar in the latter part of 2003, resulted in a 37% increase in the US dollar operating cash costs period on period.
Steps taken by Xstrata Coal management to reduce cash costs are expected to have a material and positive impact going forward, with these initiatives already delivering a reduction in local cash costs in the second half of the year, compared to the first half, despite lower production as the gas drainage solutions were implemented.
As a consequence of the lower sales volumes and higher unit costs, EBIT at the coking operations fell 81% from US$134.0 million in 2002 to US$25.4 million in 2003.
Immediately following Xstrata Coals acquisition of the MIM coal assets, a number of key management positions were lled by experienced Xstrata Coal management who oversaw the rapid implementation of Xstratas systems and procedures.
The new management team has a successful track record of turning around poorly performing assets and particular expertise in longwall mining.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 49 COAL A comprehensive review of inherited management systems, completed prior to the end of 2003, has seen the immediate and ongoing implementation of initiatives to address the shortcomings of these systems in order to improve production performance and cost management.
These initiatives include a t for purpose approach towards equipment, where extensive work is being undertaken to re-engineer the longwall equipment at Oaky North to greater productivity and more efficient operating performance.
In addition, the management structure has been changed to ensure a greater focus on engineering and management support.
The frictional ignition management plan adopted at Oaky No.
1, in particular methane drainage, has already yielded positive results and the business has been meeting expectations since the commencement of this new management plan.
It is anticipated that the initiatives implemented to date will return these assets to the higher productivity and stable production of which they are capable during the course of 2004.
As part of Xstrata Coals ongoing life of mine planning, exploration programmes will be conducted in or around existing mining leases or tenements, with priority given to the identication of increased coking coal reserves.
Developments Australia Capital expenditure for Xstrata Coals Australian operations totalled US$171 million in 2003, US$66 million in New South Wales and US$105 million in Queensland.
The expenditure relates to a number of key projects, including: Development of the underground mine at Beltana on time and within budget, with expenditure totalling US$16.3 million during the period.
Due to its highly competitive cost structure and having now reached full production, Beltana will reduce Xstrata Coals average unit cost.
Completion of the conversion of United Colliery from a high-cost bord and pillar operation to a highly efficient longwall mine, including the construction of a state of the art coal handling and preparation plant.
In 2003, the replacement of the Bulga Open Cut truck and dozer eet was commenced.
Two dozers and two trucks were purchased in the final quarter of 2003 for US$7.6 million, with the remaining seven trucks to be purchased and in use in the first half of 2004 at a cost of US$18 million.
This will lower Bulgas pre-strip mining costs over the remaining twelve years life of the Open Cut.
The purchase of a large dragline at Newlands to remove overburden from the Eastern Creek open cut area was progressed.
The dragline will lower overburden costs, increase productivity levels and allow for more efficient selective mining of both coking and thermal coal, thereby enabling margins to be optimised.
The current dragline is to be relocated to Collinsville, further reducing overburden costs at this operation.
