Operating review Building, Building Management and Services 2003 performance Review of operations Heery, the US-based architectural, engineering and programme profits in the Building, Building Management management business, again performed well in a at market.
and Services sector were down by 2% at The progressive shift of its business towards the public sector, particularly in the education, health and justice sectors continued 45m.
Performance was steady in UK building as did a clear focus on cost-efficiencies.
construction and building services and in US Amongst many notable contract wins were those for the construction and programme management.
City of St Lawrence High School in Massachusetts, a new baseball complex in North Carolina and a 130,000 sq.
ft. expansion of Atlantas profits from facilities management improved, Shepherd Centre.
but were offset by the impact of a slow first Balfour Beatty Construction BBCL again performed well despite some PPP preferred bidder positions suffering delay in reaching half for the building management and security financial close.
The trend towards larger, more complex projects has controls markets in the US.
At the year end, the BBCL order All the UK businesses responded successfully book stood at over 630m with over 150m more, at preferred bidder stage, including five Local Improvement Finance Trust projects LIFT.
to the increasing market demand for bigger, Major successes during the year were contract wins for the more complex projects and forward order London Underground station refurbishment for Metronet, the new rail station at Heathrow Terminal 5, Blackburn Hospital, Rotherham Schools, books rose signicantly as a result.
At the end Calderdale Schools and the new medical research institute at the of the year, the 43m acquisition of Mansell Edinburgh Royal Inrmary.
Good progress was made on other major added a substantial and high-quality presence projects, including Waverleygate in Edinburgh, accommodation projects for the MoD and University College London Hospital.
in the refurbishment, t-out and social Mansell joined the Group at the end of the year.
As one of housing markets.
the UKs leading construction and construction services companies, its business mix in terms of geography, sector and project size is Before 2.8m goodwill amortisation.
highly complementary to Balfour Beatty Construction.
Project summary Selfridges, HMS Nelson Palace of Denver Art Museum Balfour Beatty Construction Andover Controls provided Birmingham Westminster has made good progress the high-security and Haden Young completed Balfour Kilpatrick completed on Ministry of Defence environmental control core electrical and complex new electrical works accommodation projects, systems to protect the mechanical and t-out at the Palace of Westminster including HMS Nelson.
exhibits at the Denver services at the new Selfridges during the year.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 22 Highlights Financial summary Acquisition of Mansell for 43m 1,196m Work on Blackburn Hospital and Rotherham Turnover 2002: 1,123m and Calderdale Schools PPPs commences 45m Preferred bidder for 521m Birmingham profit 2002: 46m Hospital PPP Before 2.8m goodwill amortisation Major projects secured for stations on London Underground and at Heathrow Terminal 5 In Balfour Kilpatrick, the electrical engineering and mechanical a retrot programme for the Denver Art Museum and a fully services contractor, both sales and profits improved with substantial networked, integrated digital CCTV system for the Gate, a major work under the PPP programme, particularly in education projects leisure facility in Newcastle.
New projects included a first major carried out at Stoke, Rotherham and Calderdale.
The company installation in Mexico and a large-scale OEM contract for continued to develop its regional multi-services capability.
The 26m Lehman Brothers project at Canary Wharf in London In Haden Building Management, the building and facilities and complex services works at the Palace of Westminster were management company, profits increased with a full first years successfully completed.
contribution from the companys 49% share of Romec, the facilities Good progress was made on the PPP project to provide the manager for the Royal Mails entire building stock.
power supply to the London Underground network, work for Romec met its sales and profits targets and good progress was Scottish Power on the Edinburgh Ring Upgrade and on Network Rails made in planned efficiency improvements.
A major programme to Southern Power Upgrade.
Amongst new projects was a major wind reorganise service delivery and increase productivity is now under way, farm development in the North of Scotland.
with a full range of appropriate performance measures now in place.
profits in Haden Young, the Groups building services company, Romec also increased its work for other substantial customers.
were slightly down on last years exceptional level, largely as a result Performance on other major facilities management contracts such of signicantly increased bid costs for major PPP work.
A very strong as those for BT, the Department for Work and Pensions, PPP hospitals forward order book was increased by 30m in respect of work on as well as the Stoke Schools concession also went well.
The order Blackburn Hospital and other major contracts for Dudley and Great book is strong with a major new contract for the BBC secured in Ormond Street Hospitals and the BBCs new White City development.
For the third year running, Haden Young was Mechanical and Outlook Electrical Contractor of the Year.
It completed major works for the Opportunities to bid major schemes, particularly through the PPP Meteorological Ofce in Exeter, Kings College Hospital in London programme and the market for outsourced services continue to develop.
and the new Selfridges store in Birmingham as well as making good With a substantial proportion of its overall order book already progress on University College London Hospital and other projects.
secured and the addition of Mansell, we anticipate growth in the Andover Controls, a US leader in computer-based security and building Building, Building Management and Services sector in 2004. management systems, suffered slow market conditions in the first half of the year but made some recovery in an improving market in the second half of the year.
The companys ow of new product introductions continued with new system and terminal controllers, software modules, sensors, integration products and systems.
Major projects included Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 23 Operating review continued Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services 2003 performance Review of operations Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering, which is responsible for civil engineering profits in Civil and Specialist Engineering work in the UK and Hong Kong, performed well.
Regional markets and Services improved by 24% to 21m in in the UK were buoyant and good progress was made on key major projects.
Planning work for two contracts under the Highways Agency 2003.
Performance in UK major projects, Early Contractor Involvement programme the A303 at Stonehenge regional civil engineering, power engineering, and the A3 at Hindhead is now well under way.
More conventional road projects are coming to the market only road maintenance and in Devonport slowly.
Work started on the 132m M77 design, build, finance and Management was good.
Progress was also operate road concession and on the 148m widening project between made in reducing the losses in US civil junctions 12 and 15 on the M25.
Other major project work secured during the year in the UK included engineering, although some claim settlements the construction management work for Metronets London Underground previously anticipated in 2003 were delayed.
Civil works for the West Coast Main Line electrication project and the A120 in Essex progressed well as did the Steg-Raron In utilities, the cost of integrating Kentons rail tunnel in Switzerland with all tunnel drives completed and concrete and John Kennedy and some contract issues lining started.
The M6 Tollway north of Birmingham and the Aston Clinton adversely affected performance in that sector Bypass were successfully completed and handed over.
but, as in the US, the year ended on an In the regional civil engineering business, work generally proceeded improving trend.
well, including on the Forth Rail Bridge maintenance contract, the Durham County Council strategic alliance and Northumbrian Water framework.
Before 5.5m goodwill amortisation and 2m exceptional charge.
Raynesway Construction Services in Scotland had a notably good year winning the framework contract for maintenance at BAAs Scottish airports.
It was also a very good year in Hong Kong.
The 300m Nam Cheong Station and the East Hall extension work at Chek Lap Kok airport were completed to time and budget.
Work on the 106m Lok Ma Chau terminus and custom hall is also progressing well.
Specialist engineering projects were won for the Eagles Nest tunnel and for the refurbishment of power lines for China Light and Power.
The Groups small International businesses in Indonesia, Dubai, the Philippines and Turkey had a mixed year.
The civil engineering business in Dubai performed well, as did the Groups new 28m project at Muara Tawar in Indonesia where the Lot 3 power line Project summary Dubai Marina Hong Kong Airport Balfour Beatty is building Balfour Beatty completed two concrete bridges for a the East Hall extension at major leisure and residential Chek Lap Kok airport three development in Dubai.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 24 Highlights Financial summary Major road construction, widening and 1,393m maintenance contracts secured Turnover 2002: 1,347m Good progress on contracts in the UK, 21m US and Hong Kong profit 2002: 17m Integration of utilities business completed Before 5.5m goodwill amortisation and 2m Balfour Beatty Management launched exceptional charge project was completed successfully.
However, the markets in Turkey We anticipate a more stable market in 2004.
Regulatory reviews in and the Philippines were very weak.
Balfour Beattys interests in 2005 offer substantial opportunities to develop the business as major Turkey and the Philippines were sold in early 2004. contracts come to tender during 2004.
In the US, the Groups civil engineering arm, Balfour Beatty In road management and maintenance, RCS had a very good year, Construction Inc, also had a mixed year.
The Texas highways business improving its profits and winning the Highways Agency Area 4 contract performed well with the 1.3bn SH130 toll road proceeding well and at a value which could grow to 175m over seven years.
The North new orders secured.
The business in California has been held back by Yorkshire and Hampshire contracts won in 2002 are both proceeding the Californian budget deficit with few projects now coming to market.
well, with additional work having been secured in Yorkshire during the National Engineering and Contracting, acquired in 2001, has been year.
Progress in Areas 2 and 3 for the Highways Agency is also satisfactory.
reorganised and integrated into a new Central Division to cover major RCS should continue its successful development in 2004. infrastructure works in Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia where market In Stent, the Groups piling and foundations business, performance prospects are good.
Some unanticipated further costs were incurred was good, with major projects completed at Kings Cross, the new on bridge projects on the East Coast.
However, two are now complete Wembley Stadium and ongoing works for the rail upgrade on the with a third project over 90% complete.
significant unanticipated costs, West Coast Main Line.
Balvac, the concrete repair specialist, and Testal, which have already been accounted for have been incurred on these the testing contractor, also performed well.
Applications for the recovery of these costs are now with the profits improved at Devonport Management, which added responsibility owners but no significant recoveries were achieved or recognised in for the management of the entire naval dockyard to its existing remit 2003.
Performance in Balfour Beatty Construction Inc should show for the naval refurbishment and ret programme.
The major capital works significant improvement in 2004. to develop the yard are now completed.
The ret of HMS Vanguard is Balfour Beatty Power Networks, the Groups power, transmission now well under way and a programme of retting T-class boats is also and distribution company, performed well and completed the integration progressing well.
of Walgrave, the distribution cable service provider.
The 56m Vale of Balfour Beatty Management, a professional services company York power line project was completed and commissioned to time and offering project and programme management for major infrastructure budget and work on the Groups 100m Sunderland Street Lighting schemes was formed in late 2002.
In 2003, the company developed its PFI project commenced.
structure and personnel and began work on the station development The merger of John Kennedy and Kentons, to form Balfour Beatty project at Kings Cross.
Utilities, has now been successfully completed to create an integrated Outlook gas and water contracting services company with a first-class customer Order books in the UK Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services base and a strong market presence.
businesses are healthy and market prospects are generally improving.
In 2003, however, one-off costs associated with the integration Recovery is anticipated in the utilities business, as is a signicantly programme were incurred, while Transco released work with signicantly better performance in the US.
We expect to make good progress lower margins than anticipated.
A number of new contracts were in this sector in 2004. secured, most notably a 44m repair, maintenance and installation contract for Yorkshire Water, taking the order book for that client to approximately 140m.
Wembley Stadium Sikorsky Bridge S Stent successfully Balfour Beatty is completed the complex reconstructing the1,800 ft ground engineering and steel girder bridge on foundation works at the route 15 over the new Wembley National Housatonic River for the Stadium in September.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 25 Operating review continued Rail Engineering and Services 2003 performance Review of operations In Infrastructure Services, performance was signicantly better than profits in Rail Engineering and Services in 2002.
2003 saw high volumes of maintenance work in the Wessex, increased by 11% to 41m in 2003.
Kent and Anglia regions and a strong UK track renewals market.
In the first half of the year, the New Maintenance Programme This reected a particularly strong second half NMP contract, which had been jointly developed with Network Rail, year with continuing good performance from was piloted and successfully introduced in the Anglia region.
In March the Groups German-based rail power systems 2003, Network Rail announced its intention to take maintenance work under the Wessex contract, one of three contracts to be so selected, business, particularly in Italy.
This was successfully achieved at the end of November with good performances in UK maintenance, track Balfour Beattys full co-operation.
However, in October, Network Rail announced its intention to renewals and systems, plant and major projects, take all its currently outsourced maintenance business in-house during and some successful settlements on UK projects.
This disappointing and surprising decision was Preferred bidder status was secured on made with the stated intention of improving efficiency and reducing costs.
Balfour Beatty is co-operating fully with Network Rail on the both major UK track renewals work and the transfer, while safeguarding its shareholders interests in the handover Southern Region power upgrade project, and commercial settlement process now under way.
It is in the interests of all parties to complete the complex tasks required as quickly while the sector order book increased as possible.
substantially with the 500m new trackwork In June, Network Rail announced preferred bidders for its new contract for Metronets London Underground five-year track renewals contracts.
Balfour Beatty was preferred for plain line renewals in Anglia and Southern Region and switches and PPP concessions.
A small acquisition was made crossings renewals in London North-Eastern, Southern Region, in Germany in early 2004 to enhance the Anglia and Scotland.
These contracts are likely to be worth some 90m per year and represent a significant extension of Balfour Beattys Groups capacity to serve Deutsche Bahn.
responsibilities under the previous contract regime.
The terms of the Before 9.0m goodwill amortisation and 15m exceptional credits.
new contracts are still in negotiation.
Project summary Dublin City West Coast Mainline Balfour Beatty Rail Power Work continued on the Systems was awarded two electrication upgrade contracts for the capacity and renewal work on the extension of the Dublin City UKs West Coast Mainline.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 26 Highlights Financial summary Appointed preferred bidder for up to 450m 873m of UK track renewals Turnover 2002: 838m 500m order for trackwork under London 41m Underground PPPs secured profit 2002: 37m Electrication orders awarded from network Before 9.0m goodwill amortisation and 15m owners around Europe to the value of 1150m exceptional credits As a result of the changes in maintenance, the infrastructure In Plant, profits improved, with high volumes and new equipment services business will be reorganised to recognise its more restricted continuing to be introduced.
Despite the changes in maintenance, role from 2004. we anticipate continuing to be a major supplier of plant to Network Rail.
In the Projects business, 2003 saw continuous performance In the Technologies division, which researches and develops new improvement and increased volumes.
Good progress was made on systems and techniques, the delivery of remote condition monitoring the West Coast Main Line upgrade project and on the railway link and other technical services to Network Rail continued to expand.
to the new Heathrow Terminal 5.
In April, the 500m order for new A test section of Slabtrack, Balfour Beattys revolutionary embedded trackwork on the Sub Surface Lines and the Bakerloo, Central and track system, has now been installed at Crewe on the West Coast Victoria Lines was placed as Metronets two London Underground Main Line, with encouraging results.
PPP concessions reached financial close.
Early work on this project Performance in Balfour Beatty Rail Inc in the US reected lower is now under way as it is for Network Rails Southern Zone power volumes and the deferral of final settlements on some completed upgrade project.
The specialist rail maintainer acquired in 2002, Towards the end of the year, a 40m trackwork contract for performed well and a new industrial rail business has been formed the Santiago Metro in Chile was secured.
with an encouraging early workload.
Rail Power Systems, the German-based electrication and power Work is under way on the $200m Greenbush Line Rail Corridor supply business, again performed well.
Demand in the domestic project in Boston after some significant delays in the Massachusetts German market improved during the year and margins and market Bay Transit Authority planning process.
The high-prole trackwork share were maintained.
Our Italian business also performed well with contract for the new rail system at the site of the New York World good progress on a number of major electrication projects in the Trade Center was successfully completed.
countrys high speed rail programme.
New business was secured in Outlook Italy as well as an extension to the Porto Metro in Portugal.
The last three years have been characterised by rapid growth in some Extensions to the Turin-Novara and Bologna-Florence contracts are major rail markets which is now slowing in the light of economic anticipated.
In China, a follow-up order to the Harbin-Dalian project conditions and, in some cases, structural change.
The UK maintenance as well as the electrication of the light rail system in Tianjin were business will transfer to Network Rail during the year, creating a awarded and more work is anticipated in 2004. different prole for the business in the UK for 2005.
However, the work In Track Systems, the switches and crossings manufacturer, for Metronet under the London Underground PPPs will increase in line UK demand strengthened and performance improved.
In 2004 the business should again perform well.
grew, particularly to the US.
significant workload is now arising from Metronet.
US rail maintenance Rawang Ipoh Balfour Beatty Rail Inc. Malaysia is a major supplier of Work is progressing on maintenance services to the electrication of the Americas class 1 railways.
Rawang to Ipoh section of the main north-south rail line in Malaysia.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 27 Operating review continued Investments and Developments 2003 performance Review of operations In April, Metronet, a consortium in which Balfour Beatty has a 20% profits in Investments and Developments interest, signed contracts for two of the three London Underground improved by 10% to 54m.
Continued growth PPP projects, covering over two-thirds of the network.
Metronet will be responsible over the next 30 years for the maintenance, modernisation, in existing concession income was augmented upgrade and, where appropriate, replacement of track, signalling, by a first contribution in line with budget from stations and rolling stock for the Sub-Surface Lines and the Bakerloo, the Groups investment in Metronets London Central and Victoria lines.
This has produced some 1.2bn of civil engineering, building and rail engineering contracts for Balfour Beatty Underground PPP concessions.
This more than operating companies over the next seven years.
A major programme offset the anticipated fall in profits at Barking to refurbish and upgrade stations began in early 2004.
Balfour Beattys eventual equity investment in the concession companies will be Power where, following the entry into 70m.
Metronets operational and financial performance in 2003 administration of TXU Europe, some 28% was in line with expectations.
of the stations output is now sold on the In the Highways sector, Connect, already responsible for the A50 and the A30 A35 concessions reached financial close in May on the spot market.
This involves the During the year, six concessions were upgrade of 15 km of existing dual carriageway to motorway standard and constructing 9 km of new dual carriageway.
Construction work converted from preferred bidder status to is already well advanced.
contract and bidding activity remained extensive.
In August, Balfour Beatty reached financial close on the 100m contract with The City of Sunderland Council to update and maintain its street lights and highway signs.
In the first five years of the 25-year contract, Balfour Beatty will replace 35,000 of the existing items of apparatus.
In December, Balfour Beatty reached agreement with Atkins to purchase its 32.2% share of Connect Roads for 13m.
This transaction was completed in January 2004.
Project summary Birmingham The M77 Sunderland Metronet Construction work is A programme to refurbish Hospital Street Lighting well advanced on the M77 and upgrade London Consort Healthcare is the As part of the 100m Glasgow Southern Orbital Undergrounds stations preferred bidder for the Sunderland Street Lighting Route design, build, finance began in early 2004. new 521m Birmingham project, Balfour Beatty is and operate project.
responsible for lighting the Penshaw Monument.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 28 Highlights Financial summary Good performance from existing concessions 216m Metronets London Underground PPP Turnover 2002: 133m contracts reach financial close 54m Financial close reached on four profit 2002: 49m other concessions Barking Power makes progress towards settlement of claims In the Healthcare sector, the new 220m Edinburgh Royal Inrmary The Seeboard Powerlink concession, which has operational became fully operational in April.
Performance on Durham and the first responsibilities for London Undergrounds high voltage power system, phase of the Edinburgh Royal Inrmary was satisfactory.
Both hospitals performed well and completed the final stage of the power quality are run through Consort Healthcare.
significant additional works under this contract are During 2003, further good progress was made in the construction currently under discussion.
of the new 225m University College London Hospital which is due Balfour Beatty Capital Projects is exploring opportunities to extend to open in 2005. its activities outside the UK.
It is bidding a light rail scheme in Canada In July, Consort signed a 38-year concession contract with East and examining a number of other opportunities.
Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust for the design, construction, finance, Barking Power Ltd maintenance and lifecycle replacement of a new 125m acute hospital The 1000 MW power plant at Barking in East London, in which in Blackburn, Lancashire.
Balfour Beatty has a 25.5% share, had a good year operationally, In early 2004, Consort was appointed preferred bidder for the with high levels of availability.
profits were, however, impacted by the 521m Birmingham Acute and Adult Psychiatric Hospitals.
This 35-year entry into administration of TXU Europe, one of the business principal concession is expected to reach financial close in March 2005 and customers.
As a result, some 28% of the stations output, previously the hospital is scheduled for final completion in 2010.
Balfour Beatty on long-term contract, is now sold at lower prices on the spot market.
is one of two contenders for both the Pindereld and St Helens Prices on the spot market, however, improved during the year.
A substantial claim has been made in respect of TXU Europes In Education, operations and construction activities continued liabilities and significant recovery of the monies owed is anticipated, successfully at Transform Schools Stoke project, where more than but not yet recognised.
half of the entire schools estate has now been handed over.
In June, Transform reached financial close for the 100m Rotherham Outlook Schools contract to construct 10 new schools together with the With existing concessions continuing to perform well, further progress upgrade and refurbishment of a further five.
The contract also includes can be anticipated in 2004.
The volume of major projects coming to the maintenance and facilities management over the 30-year concession.
market shows no sign of slackening and we expect to nd further The group is bidding for major education projects in Birmingham, attractive bidding opportunities.
We will continue to focus on major North Lanarkshire and Bassetlaw in Nottinghamshire.
schemes in health, education, accommodation and road and rail In the Process sector, the Aberdeen Waste Water Project transportation which have the potential to generate appropriate rates performed well.
of return as well as substantial volumes of long-term contracting work Following a business and financial review of the waste-to-energy for Balfour Beatty operating companies.
plant in Dundee to address certain operating problems, measures to restructure the company were agreed with its lenders.
Balfour Beattys interest in this project is likely to be relinquished early in 2004.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 29
