A commitment to innovation and design and quality continuous product development, coupled with the highest standards of design, construction quality and customer service, has earned Barratt e v e ry major industry honour in recent years, including the Major Housebuilder of the Year award a record three times.
In the NHBC Pride in the Job campaign, our Site Managers won 38 a w a rds for quality workmanship, significantly more than our market share, and Keith May went on to win the top national award for his work at our highly-successful Vi rg i n i a Quay regeneration project, one of the biggest residential schemes in Docklands.
He is the second Barratt site manager to win this national award in four years.
Awards we won three Gold Awards for Best Starter Home in Britain, Best Luxury Development and Best Brownfield Development.
1 At Barratt, our strategy is to serve the total market.
We are building on 415 developments nationwide at prices from around 70,000 to 1.5 million, plus providing homes for rent and shared ownership.
Whilst we are well-known for our traditional and highly-successful range of home designs, we also work with dynamic architects to produce custom-designed developments, 2 both classic and modern, on every scale from small infill schemes to entire town centre redevelopments.
The result is an outstanding 3 p o rtfolio of developments which 4 5 1 3 6 7 enhance their environments and the i n t roduced more mixed reputations of our towns and cities, developments combining terr a c e s and provide homes in which and detached homes.
Many factors residents are proud to live.
influence development design as we seek to maximise appeal to both F rom classic ar c h i t e c t u re to planners and buyers.
For example, cutting edge contemporary designs, 1 our range of 2 2 and 3 storey houses these landmark projects have won 1 & 3 Sovereign Quay, Cardiff Bay.
This contemporary ensure more efficient use of land and development in a high-profile location won a w i d e s p read praise and have been provide additional accommodation, prestigious design award.
All 60 apartments are now sold.
recognised by scores of industry whilst their varied rooflines help to 2 Geoff Hester, Chairman of Barratt West, at the awards.
former Pirelli factory in Eastleigh, Hants.
The site is create attractive street scenes.
providing over 600 homes, including live work units like these.
We have successfully responded to 4 The Grange, Oxshott, Surrey.
Barratt won three Gold What House?
Awards, including the Best changing Government planning Luxury Development in Britain for this development of nine homes.
policy which requires greater use of 5 Paul Gieron, Regional Chairman right with Tim urban locations with higher density Goldby, who won an NHBC Quality Award for his work at Centenary Plaza, Birmingham.
PPG3 has instigated 6 Regency Apartments, London SW1.
This major radical changes in product design urban renewal development includes three detached homes, rarities in the heart of and site layout and we have Westminster.
Work is almost complete on this 100-acre ex-MoD site, one of the West Countrys largest housing schemes.
1 4 1 e n v i r o n m e n t Barratt are industry leaders in the derelict industrial sites into desirable is acquired, an environmental survey recovery and revitalisation of brown and sustainable re s i d e n t i a l and risk assessment is carried out, land.
Well over 75% of our land has developments.
Much of this work is identifying potential impacts and had a former use, comfort a b l y in urban areas where regeneration o p p o rtunities to pre s e rve and exceeding Government targets, and can produce important social and enhance existing natural features.
in many of our divisions this figure economic benefits by r e s t o r i n g We have national agr e e m e n t s rises to 90% and above.
residential life to town centre s, with suppliers whose environmental enabling people to live nearer their In reclaiming over 800 acres of p e rf o rmance is monitored with workplaces and lessen car brown land nationally each year, the special emphasis on the use of raw dependency.
G roup makes a substantial materials from renewable sourc e s, contribution to the improvement of We fully recognise our reduction of waste and impro v e d both the quality of life and the responsibilities to assess and energy efficiency.
For example, all environment in local communities minimise the impact of our business timber purchased by the Group is a c ross the country, transfor m i n g on the environment.
Before any land p rovided from sustainable and managed sources.
We also have a housing projects.
This year we won national agreement with a waste and 12 awards, more than any other e n v i ronmental management housebuilder for the second year facilitator to reduce and recycle as running.
The awards included both much waste material from our sites the English Partnership Award and as possible.
the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust A w a rd for our Pierhead Lock We retain natural features such as development in London Docklands, mature trees, established hedgerows, together with top regional awards for ponds and streams wher e v e r London, the South and Scotland.
possible, and in addition we plant around 15,000 new trees each year at our developments thus pre s e rv i n g and creating wildlife habitats.
Our efforts have been recognised by continuing success in the annual Greenleaf housing awards, presented for the quality of the living e n v i ronment created around new 4 1 5 2 3 1 Collingtree Park, Northampton.
This development was the winner of a Greenleaf environmental award, presented for the quality of the living environment.
2 & 5 Barratt won three Gold Awards in the What House?
Awards, including Best Starter Home for The Heights, Stratford, 2 an office conversion where apartments started from 66,000, and Best Brownfield Development for Barrier Point, London E16, a site which posed significant technical challenges.
Inset: Clive Fenton, Chairman of Barratt Southern, left receives a special award for Pierhead Lock from Trevor Beattie, of English Partnerships.
The scheme won three awards in this years Greenleaf environmental awards.
5 1 t r a i n i n g We are committed to the Our training programmes cover all p ro g ressed to their current r o l e s p rovision of training pro g r a m m e s aspects of our business.
We are, for t h rough our training and which address the requirements of example, industry leaders in development programmes.
At the start of each a p p rentice training, providing a In addition, we have launched a year a Group-wide annual training planned programme over three years graduate trainee scheme, with 35 programme is formulated, identifying in key skill areas such as bricklaying, graduates already established on fastspecific training needs linked to key carpentry and plumbing, and helping track career paths in sales, corporate priorities and objectives.
to provide the next generation of construction, technical, finance and construction skills.
Working in close association with land departments and more to be the CITB and the NHBC, a wide We have 420 appr e n t i c e s recruited during 2004.
1 6 range of Barratt standard training is currently receiving training more During the year work has p rovided across the core areas of than any other housebuilder and continued on the fur t h e r c o n s t ruction best practice, health plan to extend this fur t h e r. All development of the Gro u p s and safety, quality control and receive paid on-the-job training and Occupational Health and Safety customer service.
"This includes onundertake college work in recognised Management System to ensure site ""toolbox talks"", which are also vocational skills, supported by the that all staff understand their used to deliver messages on CITB and the Government."
Many of responsibilities for the management environmental awareness and waste our senior managers began their of health and safety at every stage of minimisation issues.
careers as Barratt apprentices and the development process.
2 3 5 1 7 1 Harold Walker, Deputy Group Chief Executive and Chairman of Barratt Central, with Barratt Manchester apprentices left to right Rob Lucas, Billy Yates, Barry Carr and Danny Davis.
2 Customer care assistant Chloe Hughes left and commercial assistant Jill Davies joined our South Wales division as trainees and are both studying for professional qualifications.
3 Our Graduate Trainee Scheme already has 35 graduates on fast-track career paths including left to right Michael Cayton, Philip Hall, and Kevin Furey.
4 Workforce for the future: these Aberdeen-based apprentices are training in key skills such as bricklaying, carpentry and plumbing.
5 Steven Boyes, Chairman of Barratt Northern, with Samantha Roe, winner of a Forward Through Quality award for customer service, at Brewery 4 Wharf, Leeds.
barratt in america B a rratt has been established in more, in a superb canyon-rim setting Southern California since 1980 and with beachfront pr o x i m i t y.
Homes has built more than 17,000 homes, range from 3 to 6 bedrooms, offering growing to become a leading home between 4,740 to 6,101 square feet of builder.
During the year we sold 598 living space.
Prices range up to 1.1m homes at an affordable average selling and already 12 homes have been sold.
In the Temecula Valley, a popular Based in Carlsbad, Barratt American location in Riverside County, we have is currently building on 15 two highly-successful developments.
1 developments in the strong commuter More than 80 homes have been sold, areas of San Diego County, Orange within four months of opening, well County and Riverside County, ranging ahead of construction.
Buyers can in size from just 10 homes to over 300. choose from a wide range of We offer a diverse product range at architectural designs, offering from 4 to prices from 115,000 to 1.1m.
7 bedrooms, at affordable prices from 180,000.
With an annual average of 300 days or more sunshine, Californians enjoy We also have a number of urban active outdoor lifestyles and Barratt redevelopment projects planned in American builds homes which make prime locations such as the beachside the most of their locations.
community of La Jolla, San Diego and 1 8 Escondido.
For example, at Whitehorse, San Diego, we are building 17 luxury homes, each on plots of an acre or 2 1 9 3 1 Colin Dearlove, Group Finance Director, right, presents a customer care award to Sam Gonzales of Barratt American.
2 Barratt American homes offer elegant living areas and high specifications, including the latest in communication technology.
Affordable first-time buyer and family homes, offering up to 2,900 sq ft of living space, are selling fast at this popular location.
4 Whitehorse, Lone Tree Estates, San Diego.
Dramatic architecture is a feature of this development of 17 luxury homes, each offering up to 6,101 sq ft of living space.
