04 Pillar Property PLC Operating review Hercules Pillar continues to be the largest manager of retail parks in the UK.
On behalf of HUT, Pillar now manages 23 parks and will continue an active management approach.
This will involve disposal of parks where programmes of improvement have been completed, and investment in new or enhancement of existing parks which will offer greater returns over the medium term.
01 02 03 05 Pillar Property PLC Total return to HUT investors during the year was 24.7% 04 Outlook and activity The retail warehouse Pillar also sold their last five small retail parks, Currently out-of-town stores account for 27.1% investment market remains the strongest which were unsuitable for HUT, in the open of total retail space and Verdict expects this to sub-sector within the UK property market with market for a total of 54 million.
rise to 31.3% by 2007. unsatisfied demand amongst the major life HUT acquired a further eight schemes The occupational market Over the last assurance and asset management companies.
for 314 million with an average size of 12 months, tenant demand for both the This was seen in the intense bidding for the 124,000 sq ft, as part of the strategy of bulky good and high street sectors of the 695 million Chartwell retail warehouse portfolio acquiring large parks which dominate their out-of-town retail warehouse market has been at the end of 2002.
Pillar was successful in catchment and have sufficient critical mass strong, particularly from the more traditional acquiring the portfolio by fronting a consortium to attract an increasing range of retailers.
high street retailers who are continuing to move of bidders including HUT, Morley and Capital & The competitive nature of the market and into out-of-town locations.
The strength and depth of demand shortage of stock has deflected some fund Over the year, there has been the welcome has led to significant yield compression in both managers into indirect vehicles, such as HUT return to the market of Boots and continued prime and secondary sectors.
This is expected which allows them to gain exposure to the 01 Fosse Park, Leicester.
expansion of amongst others Arcadia, Sports to continue on the large Open A1 schemes, sector, rather than investing directly.
There are 02 Waterfields Retail Park, Soccer, WH Smith and Argos.
Next are also which are in short supply and where the pricing nearly 50 unit holders within HUT including a Watford.
continuing to take new stores and are shortly is fully supported by good occupier demand.
large number of local authority and corporate 03 Colne Valley Retail Park, expected to occupy their first triple decker On some of the more secondary bulky pension funds.
The number of investors is Watford.
They are also now building on their stock, pricing has become extremely aggressive expected to increase significantly over the 04 Andrew Jones, Director.
success in the furniture sector with the trialling and there are doubts about whether it can be next 12 months as we create liquidity in of a stand-alone Next Home Store.
sustained in the absence of real occupational the stock.
Following the successful opening of their demand.
Large Open A1 schemes now Looking forward, Verdict predict that first Simply Food store at Fort Kinnaird, M&S dominate the HUT portfolio with 89% of out-of-town sales will continue to grow more are looking at achieving a target of 100 similar schemes greater than 100,000 sq ft and strongly than total retail spending over the next stores.
However their ability to achieve this will 65% being Open A1.
five years, although out-of-town space growth to a large extent depend upon finding suitable HUT have taken the opportunity of the will slow from 31.9% to 20.4%, with much of sites with the appropriate planning consents.
strong market over the last 12 months to this being achieved from store extensions and dispose of a number of their smaller schemes the installation of mezzanines rather than new to Morley, Prudential and LxB where growth store openings.
prospects in the short term were limited.
During The two emerging out-of-town sectors of the period, a total of 13 schemes, with an clothing footware and general merchandise will average size of 94,000 sq ft have been sold at be the fastest growing, achieving growth of an aggregate value of just over 302 million.
74.8% and 112% respectively over the next five years.
It is these sectors of the market which will drive rents in shopping parks given the scarcity of supply.
Operating review continued 06 Pillar Property PLC Hercules 05 Great Western The last year has also seen a steady stream Within the furniture sector Courts, MFI and Retail Park, Glasgow.
of other high street occupiers seeing the Harveys are all continuing their downsizing 06 Mark Stirling and opportunities for continued growth out-of-town, policy and are acquiring very few stores.
including Borders, HMV, River Island, Birthdays, However, DFS, and SCS are continuing to 07 Fort Kinnard, Edinburgh.
expand and Reid Furniture are looking to It is evident that they are attracted by the expand south of the border.
PC World are improved flexibility and cost-effectiveness still taking new units as they continue to offered by the out-of-town units, with the added build market share, as part of a move benefit in a number of locations of being able to into smaller towns.
exploit mezzanine floor space which improves Over the period there have been a number total sales for no additional retail cost.
of high profile casualties amongst retailers.
As these parks evolve, tenant mix is Administration orders have been placed over becoming increasingly important as the Texstyle World, What Everyone Wants and the 05 customer demands a greater depth of retail Famous Brunswick Warehouse.
The owners of good quality schemes fashion retailer Uniqlo announced its intention are beginning to see the benefits of bringing the to close all out-of-town stores and the travel likes of Borders, Next and Boots to their agents Lunn Poly and Holiday Hypermarket schemes, which assist customer retention and halted further expansion.
create additional footfall in the same way Planning & Future Supply The Government in-town shopping centres operate.
remains determined not to deviate from the More recently, however, in the traditional stringent guidelines and regulations set down bulky end of the market there has been a slow in Planning Policy Guidelines 6 and 13, for both down in demand from some retailers, who are food and non food retail development on the becoming ever more selective.
In the electrical edge of and out-of-town, throughout the UK.
sector both Currys and Comet have reined The Government remains convinced that back their expansion of the big store formats their planning strategy is working and that and Powerhouse have put all new stores on for the first time since the mid 1980s we hold and are looking to dispose of a number of have more in-town shopping developments unprofitable outlets.
Those responsible for implementing the policy remain keen to see that the sequential test and associated planning tests need to be satisfied in the most robust terms by developers, retailers and investors.
07 Pillar Property PLC The retail warehouse investment market remains the strongest sub-sector within the UK property market The focus on adding new space out-of-town 07 is being led by a mixture of new developments and extensions including mezzanines to existing schemes.
In both circumstances it is essential to prove to the local authority that there are significant benefits to be accrued from the granting of a planning consent.
This may come in the form of improved transportation or a regeneration package which is perceived to benefit the local community.
The sheer scale of these types of projects can create sufficient value to deliver investment, jobs and rejuvenation to economically deprived areas.
Further assistance has recently been granted by central government for these types of areas by the cutting of stamp duty to assist regeneration.
These factors, particularly regeneration and civic pride are important considerations for local authorities and, as such, retailers and developers will need to consider how they can improve towns and cities through their out-of-town developments.
