Chief Executives operating review Last year was a landmark in the history of the Company.
We reached significant milestones in our major projects whilst remaining committed to acquiring properties for their financial characteristics.
QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 8 Adrian Wyatt Chief Executive ANNUAL REPORT 2003 9 Chief Executives operating review continued 1 2 1 St Davids House Cardiff, South Glamorgan 2 The Bishop Out Of Residence Kingston, Surrey QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 10 For a number of years, the Group Last year was a landmark in the history of the Company.
has divided its business into three We reached significant milestones in our major projects whilst segments, and has established remaining committed to acquiring properties for their financial targets, strategies and criteria for characteristics.
We thereby achieved a total return ungeared measuring their contribution to overall performance.
in the UK of 12.2% which compared favourably with the IPD benchmark of 8.7% and further consolidated our record of outperformance.
SPECIAL PROJECTS are large complicated properties where The fundamentals of the Company remain robust: we have a significant value can be released through planning gain, development well financed reversionary portfolio with an average lease length and land sales.
The two best known of 15 years and upside potential from rent reviews, planning gain, examples are the Greenwich Peninsula development and marriage value.
The defensive nature of the and Wembley which combine to make one of the largest urban regeneration portfolio is reliant neither on rental growth nor positive yield shift.
The business remains focused on three areas, namely Special Projects, the Investment Portfolio and Structured Finance.
THE MAIN PORTFOLIO is the investment mainstay of the company SPECIAL PROJECTS and is valued at 357.9 million.
In 2002 03, the portfolio contributed Highlights for Special Projects included the purchase of 55 acres gross rental income of 28.0 million.
of land adjoining Wembley Stadium and the resolution to grant Many of the properties have planning consent on the Greenwich Peninsula.
considerable latent value which will be released over time through active Following the year end, the London Borough of Greenwich management.
The properties are key to the cashflow and the maintenance unanimously resolved to grant consent for 14.1 million sq ft of of a progressive dividend policy.
mixed use development, including 10,000 homes.
Reaching this milestone within four months of the applications submission was a significant achievement.
Q3P is the Groups structured finance and fund management At this stage we anticipate commencing development in Spring enterprise.
The strategy is to access third party skill, opportunity and 2004.
The joint venture Meridian Delta Limited with Lend Lease capital to enhance our cash flow and is working well and we are pleased with this association.
For example, Quercus is a limited and general partnership In August 2002 we acquired Wembley London Limited which with Morley and invests primarily in owns 44 acres of land including the Arena, Conference Centre nursing homes let on long leases with annual rent reviews linked and Exhibition businesses.
In March 2003, we acquired the to the Retail Price Index.
11 acre Palace of Industries site, with a passing rent of 1.1 million per annum at an initial yield of 9.1%.
This acquisition reflected our strategy of acquiring assets with income for their development potential, coupled with the prospect of securing a key adjoining landholding.
We are now working closely with the London Borough of Brent, with considerable additional help from the London Development Agency.
It is our intention to submit a planning application in the Autumn with a view to securing an appropriate setting for the National Stadium in 2005, as part of a major new mixed use community for London.
Wembley and Greenwich together represent one of the largest urban regeneration programmes in any major city involving the development of circa 20 million sq ft on 250 acres, creating in the order of 30,000 jobs and more than 14,000 homes.
ANNUAL REPORT 2003 11 Chief Executives operating review continued 2 1 1 Wembley Conference Centre Wembley 2 Fountain Street Manchester PROPERTY RETURN During the year, we completed our 250,000 sq ft retail High Street scheme in Scunthorpe, which is now over 90% let and has Over the last ten years, the Group has consistently outperformed the generated a considerable revaluation surplus.
The average annual total return in the benchmark over At Deansgate, Manchester, we anticipate submitting a planning this period has been 11.7% while application for 155,000 sq ft of residential and 55,000 sq ft of the Group has achieved 15.4%.
This makes Quintain the top retail within the calendar year.
In anticipation of a decline in the City of London market we sold most of our City office holdings with the result that our exposure now stands at less than 3% of our portfolio by value.
We own only two adjoining buildings in Gracechurch Street, which we have retained because of their 120,000 sq ft development consent.
One of them is let to Standard Chartered Bank for a further 14 years.
The other has been refurbished and is being marketed.
Incorporated within the Bristol local plan, our 65 acre site at Emersons Green, forms part of a larger 300 acre site, which is allocated for 2,250 homes and 1 million sq ft of employment use, which is due for review at the local planning inquiry this year.
QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC 12 Excluding Wembley, we purchased 65 million of properties yielding 8.1%, the two largest being a freehold office building in central Manchester 9.3 million and a district retail centre in Erdington, near Birmingham 8.3 million.
STRUCTURED FINANCE We have over 260 million of funds under management co-invested with leading UK institutions including Morley Asset Management, Hermes and Bank of Scotland.
We are confident that we have the ability to grow this business considerably as appetite for specialist collective investment vehicles gathers pace amongst the investment community.
Fund management activities bring secure fee income, enhanced returns and an efficient way of recycling capital.
With this in mind, our current focus is on non-traditional, specialised, high-yielding real estate assets, particularly those where there are high barriers to entry or restructuring opportunities.
We calculate that the inclusion of UK and overseas joint ventures increases the Portfolios return to 12.6%.
INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO OUTLOOK With a return of 12.2%, our investment portfolio remains at the A progressive dividend is a strong indicator of sound financial core of our business.
We maximise our returns to shareholders prospects and management and I am pleased that we have been by stock-picking assets for their financial characteristics and will able to increase our dividend again this year.
We have deliberately dispose of assets when appropriate.
Overseas assets continued strengthened our team in the areas of project management, to make a positive contribution to total return.
With a strong balance sheet, we are well positioned both in terms of our skills and finances to capitalise One of the major contributors to the outperformance was the on the many opportunities ahead.
Our limited development high-yielding, retail portfolio acquired from Chesterfield, which exposure is underpinned by the income from our investment delivered a revaluation surplus of 19.1 million.
We took an portfolio and we look to the future with great confidence.
opportunity to dispose of our 127,000 sq ft Wheatsheaf Shopping Centre in Rochdale and will recycle the capital to acquire other assets with higher prospective total rates of return.
We continue to balance income with opportunity in our major holdings at St Davids House, Cardiff, Anglia Square, Norwich and Queensway, Birmingham, adjoining the Bull Ring.
These properties offer safe and secure medium term income with the prospect of Adrian Wyatt Chief Executive significant land assembly and regeneration opportunities.
