Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Chief Executives Operating Review For many years Bellways consistent approach to housebuilding has delivered improving returns for shareholders resulting in earnings per share achieving compound growth of 25.8% over the last ten years.
Group turnover in the year to 31 July 2003 increased by 23.4% to 954 million and operating profit rose 29.8% to 172.8 million.
The number of homes sold increased by 234 to 6,278 with 55% of completions in the north and the remaining 45% in the south of the country.
Our wide geographical coverage helps to smooth the impact of local price fluctuations and provides more Gloucester Terrace, London.
The operating margin increased from 17.2% to 18.1% through a combination of strategic land buying and improved overhead recovery.
During the course of the year, overheads reduced from 4.9% to 4.4% of turnover.
One of the key financial indicators within our business is return on capital employed.
Managing the balance between core long-term sites and short-term land opportunities has resulted in a healthy return on capital this year of 31.4%.
This is one of the highest in the industry and a creditable performance in the light of higher work-in-progress levels associated with apartment developments and a record expenditure on land, up 70 million to 272 million.
The Right Product in the Right Place In developing a wide range of property types we benefit substantially from our product portfolio which runs from one bedroom apartments to five bedroom detached houses.
This extensive product range enables us to cover the full pricing spectrum and all market sectors, with the exception of retirement housing.
The average selling price across the Group advanced by 24% to 149,700.
This was largely due to planned product changes and the continued re-focusing of our former urban renewal divisions.
The core of our production is firmly established in the middle market sector and this year 60% of our homes were sold at 150,000 or less.
Advancing our Reputation for Regeneration Using our urban renewal credentials and under the new banner of Bellway City Solutions, we are forging closer links with housing associations and local authorities.
Last year saw the commencement of a landmark site in the Borough of Barnet in partnership with Notting Hill Housing Association.
This is a different form of land procurement with the end product providing homes for key workers within the local borough.
We feel that this model can be transported elsewhere and further schemes are now being submitted for planning in Greenwich and Liverpool.
9 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Vanguard Court, Centurian Gate, Portsmouth.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Chief Executives Operating Review continued Harbourside East, Littlehampton, West Sussex Advancing our Reputation for Regeneration continued Gateway North division covering the London boroughs of This year 10% of our completions have been sold to housing Newham, Stratford and Tower Hamlets, extending as far east as associations, predominantly in the south of England.
This area has undoubted growth potential and we We expect this trend for affordable social housing will continue to anticipate production from this new division in the 2004 05 increase as housing associations and other agencies come under financial year.
further pressure to provide more homes.
These changes will increase the number of divisions to 17 raising Infrastructure and Growth our medium-term growth aspirations to over 8,500 homes per In April we announced the opening of our new South West annum.
division and whilst still utilising the facilities and services available from a neighbouring division we will see production flowing Land and Planning through in the current financial year.
Furthermore we are currently acquiring new sites in the east of Scotland with the Despite the cost and time spent in processing planning intention of separating the existing single entity into two distinct applications increasing throughout the year, we have been trading divisions, serving the east and west respectively.
The new successful in acquiring almost 7,300 new plots with detailed division will be operating by Summer 2004. planning permission in the period under review - 16% more than we used, increasing last years 17,400 plots to 18,400 The Governments Communities Plan has identified four key at 31 July 2003. housing growth areas Ashford, Cambridge, Milton Keynes and Thames Gateway, the last two regions being targeted for a Furthermore our medium-term land representing plots owned or further 134,000 and 120,000 new homes by 2016.
Whilst we contracted subject to planning, has increased from 12,500 to already have divisions in these locations we have recruited an 14,800 plots.
This figure includes our substantial land holding experienced Managing Director to form a new Thames adjacent to the River Thames at Barking.
We also own, 11 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Old York Square, Hulme, Manchester.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Chief Executives Operating Review continued City South, Manchester.
Environment Land and Planning continued control or hold under option, some 3,500 acres where we The management of environmental issues has become a key expect to see land releases coming through the planning process concern for all companies and we fully recognise our in due course.
responsibilities in this important area.
By purchasing more pre-fabricated materials we have been able to Earlier this year the Deputy Prime Minister announced a wide reduce site wastage.
Similarly we have increased the volume of ranging review of the planning system and we welcome any on-site recycling, thereby reducing our landfill liability.
Extensive Government initiatives that are designed to improve the current experience in brownfield development means that more than 75% planning process.
of our land has had a former use, comfortably exceeding Government regeneration targets.
This year we have also Award Winning Quality supported The Wildlife Trust through an innovative sponsorship We continue to evaluate new products and building processes in culminating in a Bellway wildlife garden at this years BBC order to maximise quality and margin.
We have in place supply Gardeners World Live exhibition at the NEC in Birmingham.
chain agreements with manufacturers where we continue to benefit from economies in group-wide purchase arrangements.
Training Bellway work closely with the Construction Industry Training Our focus on quality has this year been recognised by Bellway Board CITB and the National House Building Council NHBC to being voted Major Housebuilder of the Year 2003 by Building ensure consistent training complementing our business objectives.
Also, in the annual NHBC Pride in the Job Awards, Over 30% of the workforce participated in training opportunities twelve of our site managers were recognised for their skill and throughout the year.
Currently the Group employs more than 100 abilities.
In Wessex our division was awarded the National apprentices all at various stages in their training programmes.
I Volume Housebuilder Award for its development at Farrington was particularly pleased to see that Anthony Sutton won the Gurney in Somerset by the Local Authority Building Control Trainee of the Year Award in the Carpentry and Joinery category as Organisation.
It is hoped that this will lead to a long and successful career for him within the industry.
13 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Orwell Gate, Ravenswood, Ipswich.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Chief Executives Operating Review continued The Future The underlying fundamentals affecting our business are still in a sound state with high employment levels, low interest rates and household formation increasing above the rate of new housing supply.
We commenced the new financial year with a strong forward sales position, up 17% in value terms.
Since the end of the financial year, the market place has remained buoyant.
Our forward sales position has further improved resulting in over 60% of our current years target having already been secured.
This gives us a solid base on which to continue the future progress of your Group.
J K Watson Chief Executive 13 October 2003 Top: Construction Industry Training Board CITB award winner, Anthony Sutton.
Bottom: Craft apprentices pictured with contracts manager Paul Piloviun.
15 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Bellway is committed to creating homes to enjoy.
