Operational Review Performance in Last Year enhancing the quality of our product, reducing the impact of It gives me great pleasure to report another very favourable our industry on the local communities in which we work and year for The Berkeley Group with turnover and profit up on improving our cost efficiencies.
The operating companies are last years record gures.
The Groups success, in a year where we deliver upon our sustainability agenda and I am which has clearly seen an uncertain property market, is a immensely proud of the progress they have made in this area.
testament to the quality of our product and the uniquely skilled management team that we have brought together In the consistency of our strategy, our willingness to pioneer to deliver it to the market.
and the ability of our management to identify and take advantage of new opportunities, lie the solid foundations for A consistent approach to managing the Group has established our success in the last financial year and our confidence in us as one of the most significant players in the regeneration of the future of the business.
We encourage innovation, we reward entrepreneurial air and we nurture the strong brands that we The Housing Market have created.
But we have never forgotten the very particular During the second half of our previous financial year challenges inherent in a cyclical industry.
Over the past year we November 2001 to April 2002 we operated in an have continued to simplify our management structures and unexpectedly buoyant market.
We did not consider this improve efficiencies, the savings from which are already owing market to be sustainable but nevertheless to help satisfy through the business.
We have built on the sound capital base demand we released a number of developments early and for which we have gained a deserved reputation, enabling us accelerated our reservations rate.
In the first six months of to invest in new opportunities and insulate ourselves as far as the financial year May 2002 to October 2002, Berkeleys possible from potential downturns in the market.
reservations were in line with the same period in 2001, indicating a return to a more normal market.
In the second The Group has continued to develop its sustainability strategy half of the financial year November 2002 to April 2003, over the past year and this has played an important part in reservation levels weakened and Berkeleys were 36% down Imperial Wharf, London St George continues to demonstrate that it is at the leading edge of urban regeneration in the UK.
The Point, Bristol A stunning riverside development by Crosby Homes.
06 06 The Berkeley Groups success is a testament to the quality of our product and the uniquely skilled management team that we have brought together to deliver it to the market.
Tony Pidgley Managing Director against the boom conditions of the comparable period in the Traditionally, the housing market is driven by consumer previous year.
The positive news is that reservations in June confidence which in recent years has benefited from high 2003 are ahead of those in June 2002, indicating a return to employment levels, low interest rates and a low level of supply a more normal housing market.
which is being exaggerated in London and the South-East due to planning constraints and the deliverability of complex urban Forty-five per cent of the reservations during the period were regeneration schemes.
from investors, which the Group defines as ranging from households purchasing a second home through to a large While Berkeley has seen a slowing of reservation levels and institutional investor.
This compares to 51% for the headline prices have fallen, our sales prices have been running comparable period last year.
Overseas investors account at between 3.0% to 8.0% above our business plan forecast for 19% of the investor reservations, down from 22% for with some variations dependent on the location and the type the comparable period last time.
Build costs continue to put operating margins under pressure given the continuing skills shortage but This highlights the market trend of a shift away from investors Berkeley can maintain its operating margin due to its to owner-occupiers who purchase later in the cycle and the management expertise and constant attention to detail, Group has refocused its marketing strategy accordingly.
providing the current market conditions prevail.
Nevertheless, investor demand is still healthy, which, as we said in the half year statement is reassuring to the Group.
There is continuing evidence that the demand for detached It also demonstrates that our investor market was not solely houses in the Home Counties and large apartments in Central dependent on the buy-to-let phenomenon and comprises London is moderating.
Berkeley has modest exposure to these both opportunistic purchasers and individuals preferring areas of the market.
07 07 Chelsea Bridge Wharf, London Central to our business strategy is the Berkeley Homes development at Chelsea Bridge Wharf has transformed previously objective of creating interesting and derelict land into an exciting place to live, work and play.
attractive environments, bringing home, work and leisure closer together.
08 08 For the Group to achieve its 2003 4 reservation target, 58% Thames Water in the second half for over 1,000 units including of the sales required are on units under 300,000 and 86% a 14-acre site in Hornsey for 467 units and a 60-acre site in under 500,000.
This gives Berkeley a degree of comfort but Worcester Park for 480 units.
the Group is under no illusions regarding the demanding nature of the market.
Current market conditions will favour Berkeley is concentrating on replanning a number of sites companies with distinctive and high quality products, robust in its portfolio and densities have been increased whenever nances and creative marketing strategies.
appropriate in line with best planning practice.
This has the advantage of improving numbers and gross margin without Forward Sales incurring further land costs.
It also allows us to ensure that Berkeleys strategy has always been to sell its homes at an our schemes are meeting market demand and are affordable.
early stage in the development cycle in order to secure an early commitment from customers and thus enhance the As a result, at 30 April 2003, the Group including our joint quality of future income.
This strategy has always stood the venture companies controlled over 25,850 plots compared Group in good stead whatever the market conditions.
Of these holdings, some 19,459 30 April 2003, Berkeley held forward sales of 920.9 million, are owned and included in the balance sheet compared to a drop of 130.7 million on this time last year.
Of this total, 16,014 this time last year, while 3,358 April 2002: 2,612 229.0 million was included in the results for the 12 months units are contracted and a further 3,033 April 2002: 1,800 to 30 April 2003.
Shown as debtors in the balance sheet, it have terms agreed and solicitors instructed.
At 30 April 2003, reects cash to be collected on units taken to sales.
The the estimated gross margin on these 25,850 plots is over balance of 691.9 million will benefit the current year as well 2 billion 30 April 2002: 1,700 million.
Over 95% of our as future years.
land holdings are on browneld or recycled land and many of our sites involve mixed-use developments which provide for Land Holdings living, working and leisure and so meet the Governments Berkeley over the last 12 months has concentrated on urban sustainability criteria.
In the first half, the Group broadly replaced the number of units used up in trading.
In the second half, Within the land holdings the Group has over two million square Berkeley has increased its land bank by 4,500 plots.
Berkeley feet of commercial space, within our mixed-use schemes.
has been able to acquire new land while meeting very strict investment criteria, taking special advantage of the current Berkeley has achieved this increase in land holdings without market in the South-East.
the requirement of additional financial resources either through direct investment or increasing the use of deferred land The land market has yielded a number of opportunities, payments.
The land cost percentage to turnover has fallen especially on the larger sites in the South-East though our from 17.8% to 14.5% while the estimated gross margin has overall assessment is that the land market is still competitive, remained over 28%.
especially for sites with an implementable planning consent.
Financial Strength Large sites acquired during this year include the 13-acre site The Berkeley Group continues to maintain the sound capital at Battersea Reach for 658 units, a 30-acre site in Hendon for base that has been at the core of its strategy for the past potentially over 2,000 units and a joint venture site in York for decade.
Our low gearing level, of 13.5%, reects our over 700 units.
In addition, St James acquired five sites from determination to maintain this strategy.
In total, the Group Battersea Reach, Wandsworth An award-winning new riverside development of individual tiered waterfront towers, which will feature contemporary apartments and penthouses with bars, cafes, restaurants and health and leisure facilities.
09 09 1Brewery Square, London 4 Kew Riverside, London 5 1 5 2 3 2 Chelsea Bridge Wharf, London 5 Royal Clarence Yard, Gosport 3Worcester Park, Surrey 6 One SE8, Deptford 4 5 5 7 Chelsea Bridge Wharf, London 5 6 7 maintains bank facilities in excess of 520 million.
In parallel was accredited with a 5-star rating by The British Safety with this secure financial base, we continue Berkeleys drive Council, the highest rating category.
Crosby Homes has been to maximise efficiencies and create an ever-leaner business.
accredited as a regional training and assessment centre for health and safety, training both the Company workforce and Over the past year we have continued to review our those of its contractors.
cost-base and to ensure that the business is organised to maximise returns.
Awards I am delighted that The Berkeley Group has again received As a further step in our strategy of focusing activities on external recognition for its achievements and those of its quality urban regeneration schemes and the development of employees, whose contribution is so important to the Groups integrated and sustainable communities, the Group merged overall success.
As mentioned above, St George has Thirlstone Homes into Berkeley Homes earlier this year.
maintained its high standards, building on last years fantastic achievement of being honoured with the Queens Award for Joint Ventures Enterprise: Sustainable Development, by being accredited with In January 2002, Berkeley raised 47 million in a share placing a 5-star rating from the British Safety Council.
St George was on the anticipation of requiring further funding for our joint also the House-builder of the Year in the 2003 Building Awards.
Our site managers were awarded NHBC Pride in the Job Berkeley currently has 56.8 million of capital employed in Awards and the Group also received awards from the Evening joint ventures, a reduction of 2.4 million from this time last Standard, What House?
year but our share of bank borrowings has increased by 19.4 million to 70.9 million.
I am always reluctant to single out individuals as the Group performance is down to the whole team, however, I would like Berkeley has not fully utilised equity within joint ventures to congratulate Charmaine Young, Director of Regeneration at because it has been able to develop land through its wholly St George who was awarded a CBE for her services to urban owned divisions.
regeneration, an outstanding personal achievement, of which I and the Group are extremely proud.
Berkeley is committed to all our existing joint venture partners, especially Thames Water, through our joint venture company Issues for the Future St James but will only develop further relationships if there is a mutual benefit to developing land through a joint venture.
Land Supply Our joint venture partners endeavour to operate at gearing Land supply remains constrained and competitive, particularly levels between 60% and 70% hence the requirement for on sites with planning consents capable of immediate equity is lower.
But it is Berkeleys strategy to ensure the implementation.
Nevertheless, The Berkeley Group is strongly Groups financial strength is not weakened by our joint placed in terms of our land holdings.
We remain committed to venture borrowing requirements and they are taken fully our consistent strategy of purchasing land selectively and into account when determining our financial strategy.
according to very strict investment criteria: and we will continue to sell land when we judge it commercially Health and Safety and the Environment appropriate to do so.
During the year, we have sought continuing improvement of health, safety and environmental standards to ensure our sites Skill Shortage and workplaces are safe places in which to operate.
Berkeley Labour and skills shortages continue to constrain the is committed to reducing the incidents that occur and our construction industry but Berkeley has been able to mitigate target is to minimise them as far as possible.
We are currently the impact of these constraints through an increase in off-site experiencing incidents at 48% below the national average for manufacture and pre-assembly of components and by the construction industry.
We experienced a notiable incident developing close partnerships with our main contractors rate of 10.2 per 1,000 workers and have committed to target and sub-contractors.
a 10% reduction of this in the forthcoming year.
Planning It is also pleasing to receive awards in recognition of our The home building industry remains one of the most regulated progress in this area with St George, St James and Crosby sectors in the UK and the planning process is one of the achieving Gold RoSPA Awards for Health & Safety.
St George most obvious impacts on our business.
While the Group, 10 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report 2003 11 12 in partnership with our industry colleagues, continues to lobby assist us in providing the affordable housing elements of for the removal of unnecessary complexities and delays in the our schemes.
system, our experience in negotiating planning agreements remains strong throughout all the divisions and makes us well St George is currently represented on the Housing placed to optimise our land holdings.
Corporations Home Ownership Task Force, which was established at the request of the Government to examine the Conservation provision of low-cost home ownership.
The task force is due Central to our business strategy is the objective of creating to report to the Government this autumn.
interesting and attractive environments, bringing home, work and leisure closer together.
Our divisions are strongly focused Respected Brands on conserving both our natural environment and our built The Berkeley Group has developed a portfolio of powerful heritage.
Projects such as our development at the Royal and respected brands over the past decade.
The autonomy Arsenal at Woolwich demonstrate our commitment and ability that we give to our divisions encourages them to build these in conserving and regenerating buildings of architectural brands and to adopt innovative and assertive marketing heritage and in all our projects we seek to protect and strategies.
Leading Edge Products Affordable Housing The quality of product is crucial to the success of the The increase in house prices, fuelled by constraints in the business.
Berkeley only offers properties that we would be market, has increased the need for affordable housing happy to call our homes.
The design and mix of our particularly in the South-East.
Our developments tackle social developments is market led, ensuring that we build homes polarisation by providing a wide variety of homes for people which t the needs of our customers.
While price and with differing needs including families, key workers, student presentation are important, we have consistently delivered housing and homes for the frail and elderly.
We have a number homes that are easy to sell in terms of quality and the purpose of strategic partnerships with housing associations, which and design for which we build.
We continually review our Chelsea Bridge Wharf, London Extensive investigation was carried out to assist the design of energy efficient buildings.
Opposite page: The London Wetland Centre, Barnes Berkeleys development of Barnes Waterside transformed a redundant site into a major new ecologically diverse habitat.
13 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth A high quality shopping and leisure experience has been created at Gunwharf Quays.
Putney Wharf, London An imaginatively conceived mixed-use development on the River Thames at Putney Bridge.
product to ensure that it is the right product for the right I am confident that the skills of our management team market on the right site.
combined with our consistent strategy of organic growth will enable the Company to continue to perform strongly Service to the Customer and further develop its reputation as a leading urban Our customers are naturally the main focus of our business regenerator.
At the same time, we will generate cash, and ensuring their satisfaction is crucial to our success.
so providing a further opportunity for Berkeley to simplify While our customer surveys show a high level of satisfaction, its structure, improve its land holdings, strengthen its financial we are never complacent and recognise that there is always base and take advantage of opportunities in the market.
the opportunity to improve on the service we give.
The expectations of customers continue to grow and we are I believe that Berkeley remains able to continue delivering conscious that our service must be constantly reviewed to enhanced performance, while minimising the risks inherent in ensure that we retain our hard-earned reputation in this area.
That will continue to be our aim, and I look forward in 2004 to reporting on another year of achievement.
Moving Forward The Berkeley Group is in a strong position.
The decline in the buoyancy of some of our principal markets was anticipated and our business operations have been adjusted accordingly.
We recognise the market will continue to be challenging, which is why the quality of our products and our marketing capabilities have been enhanced.
In addition, our balance sheet is strong, our gearing is low and we had the foresight to create the right mix of land holdings and product Tony Pidgley for the market that exists today.
