06 3i Report and accounts 2003 Go Fly Limited The sale of Go Fly, the low cost airline, to easyJet in July 2002 crystallised a total return of 91 million including 86 million of realised capital profits on its investment made in June 2001 of 56 million.
3is industry knowledge, experience and contacts from earlier investments Buy-outs 3i continues to lead the We see the market through the were valuable in allowing it to pan European mid-market for local access that the 3i network Operating evaluate the investment buy-outs and this part of the provides, through our sector opportunity and in winning business, led by Jonathan Russell, teams, through the relationships managements support for a 3i-led review has performed strongly through that we have built with large deal.
3is previous contact with the year.
3is focus within this corporates and through the British Airways was also important market is on transactions with people programmes we run for in the 3i-led proposal being a value from c25 million to chairmen, chief executives and selected as the preferred bidder c500 million.
The vendors of these independent directors.
in June 2001. companies are typically large We aim to select the most Overview This review Featured: Barbara Cassani, CEO corporates disposing of non-core attractive opportunities through of Go Fly and Tom Sweet-Escott, comments on the subsidiaries or private groups harnessing our international 3i Director.
Market operations of our buy-out, network and experience and by statistics for calendar year 2002 growth capital and early assembling the best team for the show that there were 153 job from our regional, sector and stage technology transactions in this segment buy-out specialists.
A transaction businesses and covers of which 3i invested in 18. like fide Telefoongids profiled on the market conditions 3i is also active in the smaller buypage 7, involved our local office and our operating out market below c25 million.
in Amsterdam, two of our performance in Europe, This is a more fragmented sector teams, Media and segment and one in which 3is Communications, as well as the US and Asia Pacific.
local network provides ideal members of our pan European The review also access to the private vendors, buy-out team.
comments on our third management teams and local A panel of our most experienced party fund management advisers involved.
buy-out investors ensures rigorous activities.
During the year to 31 March 2003, application of our investment 3i made 63 buy-out investments, process and provides additional with 3i and funds managed by 3i guidance to try to ensure that we investing 482 million, of which win the buy-outs that we want to 3i led 14 new mid-market deals do at an attractive price.
investing 338 million including Once we have made an co-investment funds.
Realisations investment, it is critical that we from the buy-out portfolio were add value.
We do this through the strong with total proceeds of investee company board, through 613 million, including 144 million our knowledge and experience from the sale of Go.
These and through our network.
realisations were achieved at an aggregate equity uplift of 69%.
Our buy-out performance is driven by a clear product strategy, which is rigorously applied.
This strategy is to build competitive advantage from our scale and local knowledge so that we see the market, select the most attractive investment opportunities and drive value from our portfolio.
