Operating and Financial Review Operating Review Summary The results discussed below are not necessarily indicative of Abbeys Protection segment, and the General Insurance business was results in future periods.
The following information contains certain segregated into its own segment.
For a discussion of certain cautionary The majority of the Wealth Management and Long-Term Savings statements relating to forward-looking statements, see Forwardbusiness was transferred to the Investment and Protection segment, looking statements on page 7. with the exception of the First National businesses which were moved The following discussion is based on and should be read in into their own segment along with their goodwill impairments charge conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the which was previously recorded in the Group Infrastructure segment.
related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report and The international life assurance operations and European operations Accounts.
For a discussion of the accounting policies used in the of the Wealth Management and Long-Term Savings segment were preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, see Accounting transferred to the Other segment.
policies in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated The Wholesale Banking segment remained largely unchanged, Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, which with the exception of the Treasury Services operations which were varies in certain significant respects from US GAAP.
A discussion of transferred into their own segment.
such differences can be found in the Other material items section of The Group Infrastructure segment remained unchanged except the Operating and Financial Review and a reconciliation of certain UK as noted above.
GAAP amounts to US GAAP is included in Note 61 to the Consolidated Results for the prior periods have been adjusted to reect Financial Statements.
these changes to conform with the new segment structure, which is as follows: Executive summary Banking and Savings: We have prepared this Operating and Financial Review in a manner Investment and Protection: consistent with the way management views Abbeys business as Treasury Services: a whole.
As a result we present the following key sections to the General Insurance: Operating and Financial Review: Group Infrastructure: Operating review summary this contains an explanation of Wholesale Banking: the basis of our results and any potential changes to that basis in First National: and the future, a summary consolidated statutory profit and loss with Other.
commentary, a summary consolidated statutory profit and loss Following the significant strategic change announced at the 2002 analysed between Personal Financial Services and the Portfolio full year results presentation, this report reects the split of Abbey Business Unit, and a summary of the nature of adjustments between the ongoing Personal Financial Services businesses, and between our statutory basis of accounting UK GAAP and our those being managed for exit in the Portfolio Business Unit.
management basis of accounting known as the trading basis : The Banking and Savings, Investment and Protection, General Personal Financial Services this contains a summary of the Insurance, Treasury Services and Group Infrastructure segments results, and commentary thereon, by profit and loss line item on represent our Personal Financial Services businesses.
The Wholesale a trading basis for each segment.
Additional detailed information Banking, First National and Other segments represent our Portfolio is provided for certain segments such as the Banking and Savings Business Unit.
and Investment and Protection segments due to the signicance of their impact on Abbeys results: Critical factors affecting results Portfolio Business Unit this contains a summary of the Business risks results and commentary thereon on a management basis for Refer to the Risk Factors sections for details of the risks associated each segment.
Additional detailed information is provided on with our business.
the assets and relevant provisions of the Portfolio Business Unit due to these businesses being managed for exit: Critical accounting policies and areas of significant Other material items this contains detailed information about management judgement the statutory to trading basis adjustments.
It also contains details The preparation of Abbeys financial statements requires management of the differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP and the to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amount movements therein: and of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and Balance sheet review this contains an analysis the reported amount of income and expenses during the reporting of Abbeys balance sheet as a whole, including: period.
Management evaluates its estimates and judgements on an Capital disclosures this contains an analysis ongoing basis.
of Abbeys capital needs and availability: Management bases its estimates and judgements on historical Off-Balance Sheet disclosures this contains a summary experience and on various other factors that are believed to be of our off-balance sheet arrangements, their business reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ purpose, and importance to Abbey: and from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Liquidity disclosures this contains an analysis of Full details of Abbeys key accounting policies are set out within Abbeys sources and uses of liquidity and recent cashows.
the Accounting policies section of the financial statements.
The following estimates and judgements are considered important to Basis of results presentation the portrayal of Abbeys financial condition.
In 2003, certain organisational changes were made that resulted in a change in our segmentation.
a Provisions for bad and doubtful debts Our segments in 2002 were: Abbey estimates provisions for bad and doubtful debts with the Retail Banking: objective of maintaining reserve levels believed by management to be Wealth Management and Long-Term Savings: sufficient to absorb current estimated probable losses in connection Wholesale Banking: and with loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to Group Infrastructure.
The calculation of specic provisions on impaired loans As a result of the changes made in 2003 the majority of the Retail and advances is based on the likelihood of the asset being written off Banking business, including Abbey Retail, moved to the Banking and or repossessed in the case of mortgage loans and the estimated loss Savings segment, while a portion went to the Investment and on such a write off.
These assessments are made using statistical 12 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review Summary continued techniques based on historic experience.
General provisions are corresponding decrease in Abbeys operating loss in 2003 of up to determined based on historic experience, general credit and lending 19% 2002: 12%, or increased by 20m 2002: 2m, with a potential quality, and current or near-future economic prospects.
These corresponding increase in Abbeys operating loss in 2003 of up to 3% determinations are supplemented by various formulaic calculations 2002: nil.
The actual provision charge of 130m 2002: 139m in and the application of management judgement.
For further discussion 2003, which was at the high end of the provision range, was based of the impairment charges recorded in 2003 with respect to on what management estimated to be the most probable economic Provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts, see the Provisions for Bad and outlook within the range of reasonably possible economic outlooks.
Doubtful Debts sub-section in the Accounting policies section of the b Investment securities financial statements.
Debt securities, equity shares and similar interests held for investment We consider accounting estimates related to provisions purposes are stated at cost, adjusted for amortisation of premium for bad and doubtful debts critical accounting estimates because: or discount on an appropriate basis.
Provision is made for any i they are highly susceptible to change from period to period as the impairment.
Abbey conducts regular impairment reviews of the assumptions about future default rates and valuation of potential investment portfolio and considers indicators, such as serious losses relating to impaired loans and advances are based on recent downgrades in credit ratings, breach of covenants or failure to make performance experience, and ii any significant difference between interest payments, that may suggest that interest and principal may our estimated losses as reected in the specic and general not be paid in full.
provisions and actual losses will require us to take provisions which, We consider that the accounting estimate related to impairment if signicantly different, could have a material impact on our future of our investment securities is a critical accounting estimate profit and loss account and our balance sheet.
Our assumptions about because: i it is highly susceptible to change from period to period estimated losses are based on past performance, past customer because it requires us to make assumptions about the likelihood of the behaviour, the credit quality of recent underwritten business and recoverability of the investments carrying values based on the length general economic conditions, which are not necessarily an indication of time the investments fair value have been below their carrying of future losses.
amount, the severity of the decline in value, and our ability and intent Provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts, less amounts released to hold the securities until their cost is recovered, and and recoveries of amounts written off in previous years, are charged ii the impact that recognising an impairment would have on the to the line item Provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts in the profit assets reported on our balance sheet as well as our net profit loss and Loss Account.
The specic and general provisions are deducted could be material.
from the Loans and advances to banks and the Loans and advances Impairments of investment securities are charged to the line item to customers line items on our balance sheet.
If we believe that Amounts written off xed asset investments in the profit and Loss additions to the allowance for such credit losses are required, then we Account.
Impairment charges are deducted from the Debt securities record additional provisions for credit losses, which would be treated and Equity shares and other similar interests line items in our as a charge in the line item Provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts balance sheet.
in the profit and Loss Account.
Credit exposures that we deem to We could have chosen, in the current period, estimates that be uncollectible and credit losses, net of recoveries of previously would have had a materially different impact on our financial written off amounts, are first allocated against the cumulative presentation.
For example, our financial statements for the year ended Provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts, with any difference charged 31 December 2003 included a charge for impairment of investment or credited to the line item Provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts securities in our Wholesale Banking division part of our Portfolio within the profit and Loss Account.
For US GAAP reporting purposes, Business Unit for an amount equal to 45m 2002: 390m.
This allowances for lending losses related to loans within the scope of SFAS provision reected the length of time the investments fair value 114 Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan, are determined have been below their carrying amount, and the change in 2003 based on the present value of expected future cash ows discounted in our intent regarding our investment securities portfolios.
at the loans effective rate, or at the loans observable market price or If management had continued to intend to hold the securities the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral-dependent.
until their cost was recovered, the impairment charge could have We could have chosen, in the current period, estimates that decreased signicantly.
would have had a materially different impact on our financial presentation.
For example, our financial statements for the year ended c Trading securities and derivatives 31 December 2003 include a provision charge for bad and doubtful Securities which are not held for the purpose of investment, and the debts in our Banking and Savings segment for an amount equal to associated funding and derivatives classied as trading, are stated at 130m.
This provision was reduced for the third consecutive year fair value.
The fair value of such financial instruments is the estimated in 2002 it was 151m, reecting both favourable economic conditions amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current through 2003 resulting in lower defaults and write offs, and transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or improvements to the overall quality of the lending portfolio as a result liquidation sale.
If a quoted market price is available for an instrument, of effective risk management and debt management operations.
the fair value is calculated based on the market price.
In calculating the general provisions within the Banking and Where quoted market prices are not available, as is the case with Savings segment, a range of outcomes was calculated based certain over-the-counter derivatives, fair value is determined using principally on managements conclusions regarding the current pricing models which use a mathematical methodology based on economic outlook.
Had management used different assumptions accepted financial theories.
Depending on the product type and its regarding the current economic outlook, a larger or smaller provision components, the fair value of over-the-counter derivatives is modelled for bad and doubtful debts would have resulted in the Banking and using one or a combination of pricing models that are widely accepted Savings segment that could have had a material impact on Abbeys in the financial services industry.
Specically, if managements Pricing models take into account the contract terms of the conclusions as to the current economic outlook were different, but securities as well as market-based valuation parameters, such as within the range of what management deemed to be reasonably interest rates, volatility, exchange rates and the credit rating of the possible economic outlooks, the provision charge for bad and counterparty.
Valuation adjustments are an integral component of doubtful debts in the Banking and Savings segment could have the fair value estimation process and are taken on individual positions decreased in 2003 from an actual provision charge of 130m where either the absolute size of the trade or other specic features 2002: 139m by as much as 141m 2002: 126m, with a potential Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 13 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review Summary continued of the trade or the particular market such as counterparty credit risk, a global adjustment to these percentages as it would not give concentration or market liquidity require more than the simple a meaningful sensitivity as different products will react differently application of pricing models.
or even contrarily to changes in economic conditions.
When valuation parameters are not observable in the market or With respect to the provision required relating to the shareholders cannot be derived from observable market prices, as is the case with liability for the realistic balance sheet position, there remains certain over-the-counter derivatives, the fair value is derived either uncertainty as to the final form of the Financial Services Authoritys through historical analysis of other observable market data such as regulations in this area.
As a result, the calculations of the year-end spot prices or through an estimation of a valuation adjustment position, and the ultimate amounts of any additional capital to be borne appropriate for each product.
Typically, historical benchmarks are by policyholders and shareholders, have not been nalised.
A provision combined with management judgement in this process.
has therefore been made based on managements current estimate We consider that the accounting estimate related to valuation of the potential cost to the shareholder, though it is possible that the of trading securities and derivatives where quoted market prices are final cost will be signicantly higher or lower.
If we had made different not available is a critical accounting estimate because: i it is highly judgements as to the likely outcome of the uncertainties above, the susceptible to change from period to period because it requires provision would have been increased or reduced signicantly.
management to make assumptions about interest rates, volatility, exchange rates, the credit rating of the counterparty, valuation e Impairment of goodwill adjustments and specic features of the transactions and ii the The carrying value of goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impact that recognising a change in the valuations would have on the amortisation.
The carrying value of goodwill is written down by the assets reported on our balance sheet as well as our net profit loss amount of any impairment, and the loss is recognised in the profit and could be material.
Loss Account in the period in which this occurs.
Should an external event Changes in the valuation of trading securities and derivatives reverse the effects of a previous impairment, the carrying value of where quoted market prices are not available are accounted for in the goodwill may be written up to a value no higher than the original the line item Dealing profits in the profit and Loss Account and the amortised cost.
Impairments are calculated with reference to the Other assets line item in our balance sheet.
discounted cash ows of the entity or income generating unit.
We could have chosen, in the current period, estimates that would Assumptions about expected future cash ows require management to have had a materially different impact on our financial presentation.
Had make assumptions about interest rates, the health of the economy and management used different assumptions regarding the interest rates, operating costs.
This involves significant judgement because such factors volatility, exchange rates, the credit rating of the counterparty, and have uctuated in the past and are expected to continue to do so.
valuation adjustments, a larger or smaller change in the valuation of We consider that the accounting estimate related to impairment trading securities and derivatives where quoted market prices are not of goodwill is a critical accounting estimate because: i it is highly available would have resulted that could have had a material impact on susceptible to change from period to period because it requires Abbeys reported operating loss in 2003. management to make assumptions about future cash ows, interest For details of our US GAAP accounting policy refer to Note 58 rates, the health of the economy and operating costs, and ii the of the financial statements.
impact that recognising a goodwill impairment charge would have on the assets reported on our balance sheet as well as on our net profit d Long-term assurance business loss could be material.
Abbey accounts for the value of the shareholders interest in the Goodwill impairment charges are accounted for in the line long-term assurance business using the embedded value basis of item Impairment of goodwill in the profit and Loss Account and accounting, in accordance with UK GAAP for banking groups that the Intangible xed assets line item in our balance sheet.
The embedded value is comprised We could have chosen, in the current period, estimates that of the net tangible assets of the life assurance subsidiaries and would have had a materially different impact on our financial the present value of the in-force business, which is calculated by presentation.
Had management used different assumptions regarding projecting future surpluses and other net cash ows attributable to the future cash ows, interest rates, the health of the economy and the shareholders arising from business written by the balance sheet operating costs, a goodwill impairment charge would have resulted date and discounting the result at a rate which reects the that could have had a material impact on Abbeys reported operating shareholders overall risk premium.
Future surpluses will depend on lapse rates, mortality, persistency, investment returns for various categories of investments Change in accounting policy and levels of expenses both salary and non-salary.
Surpluses are Shares purchased through Employee Share Option Plans are held estimated by management through assumptions about future at cost, and taken as a deduction from Shareholders Equity in experience, having regard to both actual experience and current accordance with UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
Surpluses expected to emerge in the future are these were accounted for as Other Assets at the lower of cost and discounted at risk-adjusted discount rates after provision has been net realisable value, with any impairments being taken to the profit made for taxation.
There is an acceptable range into which these and Loss Account.
assumptions can validly fall, and the use of different assumptions or The profit and loss impact of this change in accounting policy changes to these assumptions may cause the present value of future was to decrease 2002 loss before tax by 37m 2001: nil impact.
surpluses to differ from those assumed at the balance sheet date.
This could signicantly affect the income recognised, and the value Change in accounting estimates attributed to the in-force business, in the accounts.
During the year, the basis by which embedded value is calculated The value of the in-force business could also be affected was changed from a passive to an active economic basis.
This new by changes in the amounts and timing of other net cash ows, approach involves applying actual asset mix to economic assumptions principally annual management charges and other fees levied upon e. g. rates of investment returns, ination set with reference to market the policy holders, which are reected in the profit and Loss Account conditions at the valuation date.
Previously, long-term economic and using unsmoothed fund values.
In addition, to the extent that actual asset allocation assumptions were set by management based on experience is different from that assumed, the effect will be recognised their assessment of long-term trends rather than the current position.
in the profit and Loss Account for the period.
Demographic assumptions As this is a change in estimate, a restatement of prior periods results are set individually by product.
It is therefore not appropriate to apply is not required.
14 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review Summary continued Current and future developments in UK and US GAAP Current and future developments in UK and US GAAP are detailed in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
significant acquisitions and disposals The results for 2003 have been materially impacted by the disposals described in note 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
profit on disposal of Group undertakings profit on disposal of Group undertakings increased from 48m in 2002 to 89m in 2003, primarily due to the disposals of Abbeys Italian residential lending business.
See the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
Potential impact of International Financial Reporting Standards Abbey, along with all listed companies in the European Union, will be required to prepare its financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards sometimes referred to as International Accounting Standards from 1 January 2005.
These standards represent a significant change from UK GAAP.
The effect on our results cannot be accurately predicted at this stage both due to the nature of the standards themselves and the number of uncertainties that remain.
The principal uncertainties are: a number of key International Financial Reporting Standards have not yet been nalised, principally those related to insurance accounting Insurance Phase 1 and macro hedge accounting: whether the European Union adopts International Financial Reporting standards for financial instruments IAS 32 and 39 and insurance accounting: and the approach of the Financial Services Authority towards International Financial Reporting standards and whether the new accounting treatments will be adopted in the calculation of regulatory capital.
The Inland Revenue has started to issue guidance in this area and the effect of their proposals is under review.
The combination will affect both the tax charge and our accounting and regulatory equity ratios.
International Financial Reporting Standards includes a number of areas, principally financial instruments and dened benefit pensions, where fair values are required to a far greater extent than under UK GAAP.
This will create greater volatility in reported results and have an associated impact on other financial measures.
A company-wide project with the objective of ensuring full compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards in 2005 is underway.
significant deliverables include making the necessary changes to reporting systems to enable compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards, identifying all required changes to accounting policies, and ensuring the resultant solutions are optimal from a business and financial perspective.
Key operational and control issues, as well as significant risks and uncertainties, are reported to the project steering committee on a monthly basis.
Given the level of uncertainty as set out above, the effect of International Financial Reporting Standards on Abbey cannot be quantied at this juncture.
However, the key changes and their potential effect on Abbey are set out below.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 15 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review Summary continued Issue Effect on financial statements Life assurance Overall reduction in equity on initial adoption as Our current group accounts include the embedded values of our life businesses on the balance sheet, the DVFP of investment products recognised on thus recognising the discounted value of future profits DVFP.
The IFRS standards for Life Assurance writing of new business is reversed out, to be remain uncertain an interim standard Phase 1, is due to be released in late March 2004, prior to a recognised in future periods.
comprehensive standard on life assurance being released in the future.
However, it is currently IAS 39 accounting for investment products is likely anticipated that any contracts, which are largely investment in nature i. e. do not contain significant to reduce profits from new business in the year in insurance risk will instead be accounted for as financial instruments under IAS 39.
The split between which the business is written, particularly as DVFP insurance and investment products depends on the final form of the IFRS insurance standards.
will no longer be recognised but replaced by DAC.
Whilst DVFP will no longer be recognised in respect of the investment contracts, we will be able to There will be an offset in terms of earnings from recognise the amortised value of deferred acquisition costs DAC.
However, the acquisition costs the in-force book on which DVFP will not have that are deferrable under IFRS are likely to be restricted largely to initial commission, which is likely been recognised in prior periods.
to be signicantly lower in value than the current DVFP.
In addition, the current element of actuarial liabilities relating to investment contracts will be replaced by the face value of units and certain guarantees and options will need to be recognised at their time value.
The IFRS staff will be starting work on the Phase II project in May 2004 and are aiming to complete an exposure draft by June 2005 for adoption in 2007.
This will re-examine from basics the fair value model for insurance contracts and will result in a consistent basis of reporting for insurance contracts for both insurance companies and bancassurers.
It is anticipated that fair value will be based upon discounted cash ow techniques.
Issues remain, inter alia, over which cash ows should be included and how the margin should be adjusted for risk.
Hedge Accounting IAS 39 would have a significant impact on equity IAS 39 requires derivatives to be recognised at fair value, with changes in the valuation impacting and earnings if the current hedging approach and the profit and Loss Account, potentially resulting in significant earnings volatility.
Hedge accounting supporting processes were unchanged.
permissibility is much more restricted under IAS 39 than at present under UK GAAP.
However, the proposed business model is Abbeys retail business makes extensive use of derivatives to manage interest rate risk.
As many of designed to considerably reduce both the degree the products reprice or mature on a behavioural rather than contractual basis, compliance with the of equity and earnings impact, and the volatility hedge accounting rules of IAS 39 is difficult.
The business model is therefore being redesigned to arising from IAS 39. maximise the natural offsets between assets and liabilities and design compliant hedging strategies wherever possible for the remainder.
The degree to which this is practicable depends on the final form of the hedging rules due end March 2004.
Nevertheless, the objective will continue to be to provide an economic hedge for the banks market risk exposures.
Little impact is anticipated as the Personal Financial Services treasury business is already largely accounted for on a mark-to-market basis, although there are some changes to detailed valuation rules.
Loan and securities Portfolio Business Unit assets are expected to be minimal by the time IAS is implemented.
Pensions As with FRS 17, the pension charge is likely to be IAS 19 is broadly consistent with the current standard, FRS 17, with the fund valuation dependent slightly higher than the present SSAP 24 charge.
Equity impact depends to a large extent on market In particular, it is proposed that any pension scheme surplus deficit is taken to a separate conditions.
On initial adoption, any deficit or component of equity, without impacting the profit and Loss Account.
surplus in the pension schemes will be charged credited to equity.
Effective interest rate Little impact on earnings, as a reduction in fees IAS 39 requires the inclusion of all origination fees and related costs, including pre-payment is offset by a corresponding increase to net penalties in the calculation of the effective interest rate.
It is currently anticipated that the period over which the fees are spread is likely to be consistent Effect would be more significant if the period with the current approach, therefore making a significant effect on earnings unlikely.
is inconsistent with the current approach.
Provisions Slight increase in volatility as provisions reect the IAS 39 will remove the split between general and specic provisions, and only allow provisions on economic climate at the reporting date.
This could losses that have already been incurred, based on objective evidence of impairment.
The present lead to lower provisions if the economic climate is value of future cash ows concept is applicable to determine the carrying value of the asset, benign on implementation.
though allowance can still be made for portfolios of loans taken together.
Depends on both the final adjustments to IFRS and the as yet unknown rules the Inland Revenue will apply.
Software capitalisation Increase in equity on initial adoption due to an IAS 38 requires the capitalisation of certain expenditure relating to software development costs.
Assets leased to customers The allocation of earnings to later years will result IAS 17 requirements in respect of the depreciation of operating lease assets appear similar in a reduction in equity on initial adoption.
to UK GAAP, but do not permit the current practice of actuarial after-tax depreciation method.
Changing to a new depreciation method will reduce As a result, the choice of permitted depreciation methods may become more limited, which may earnings in the early years of the life of the operating reduce the scope for applying interest methods of depreciation and require a wider use of the lease, with increased earnings in later years.
In particular, this will impact the recognition of The actual methodology is under debate.
earnings from the operating leasing businesses.
Deferred taxation Additional deferred taxation provisioning will be Under IAS 12, deferred taxation provisioning is required in respect of revalued assets.
required in respect of assets revalued on acquisition.
Increased provisioning for deferred taxation will result in a reduction in equity on initial adoption.
16 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review Summary continued Potential impact of Consultation Paper 195 Potential impact of the Basel II Capital Accord The Financial Services Authority is due to introduce new supervision The Basel II Capital Accord Basel II is expected to introduce, for banks, rules for all regulated business including Life companies in mid-tomore risk-sensitive approaches for the calculation of regulatory capital late 2004, under a new Integrated Prudential Sourcebook applicable for credit risks, and a new approach for calculating regulatory capital for from the start of 2005.
This will have an impact on our systems and operational risks.
In addition, Basel II introduces new requirements for controls as well as on capital and solvency requirements.
disclosure by banks of key risk information and additional requirements For Life companies writing with-profits business the key relating to risk management and capital planning.
implications for capital requirements will arise from the need to Basel II is currently expected to run in parallel with the existing consider the value of liabilities due to policyholders calculated on a supervisory regime during 2006, and should be implemented in the realistic basis as set out under Consultation Paper 195.
The realistic UK by the Financial Services Authority, along with the equivalent value will represent all contractual and constructive liabilities to European Directive, via the Integrated Prudential Sourcebook, in 2007. policyholders.
Constructive liabilities arise out of a companys past Basel II is due to be nalised in mid-2004, with the Financial Services practice or market announcements, rather than arising from contractual Authoritys next consultation paper on implementation scheduled terms.
The contractual and constructive liabilities to policy holders for publication in the third quarter of 2004. include options and guarantees such as guaranteed annuity options, A major project is underway to prepare Abbey for the new which have been subject to much publicity.
In addition, the proposals requirements and we are currently on schedule, assuming there require an appropriate risk capital margin for credit, market, operational are no major changes to the draft proposals.
Abbeys strategic aim and other risks.
The overall impact on our Life companies will depend continues to be to achieve the Advanced Internal Ratings-Based on the nature of the products written and in particular the nature of Approach for credit risks for its material portfolios and initially to guarantees within products.
Many of these guarantees and options adopt the Standardised Approach for operational risks, with the aim have been written into with-profit policies and annuities, hence it of moving to the Advanced Measurement Approach in due course.
is reasonable to assume that the new requirements will negatively As with all users of the Internal Ratings-Based Approach, Abbey is impact those products, a view generally shared within the industry.
expected to be subject to capital oors of 90% and then 80% of the Abbey has set up a project to consider the implications of the capital calculated under the previous methodology, in the first two Integrated Prudential Sourcebook including an assessment of the years of implementation.
This will initially limit the potential benefit capital and operational implications for the Life businesses.
A detailed to a maximum of 10% and 20% of capital requirements, as they would gap analysis has been completed to identify additional operational be calculated under current rules in years one and two, respectively.
requirements for the new regulations, which will be implemented In light of the timetable set out above, it is still not possible to throughout 2004.
In line with industry best practice, Abbey has be precise about the impact of Basel II on Abbeys regulatory capital developed, and is rening, appropriate models to determine the ratios.
However, Abbey anticipates that it will be able to provide more required level of risk-based capital.
This is dependent upon Abbeys precise information in early 2005.
An indication of the potential effect future investment strategy for the relevant funds, which will continue of the key changes is on the next page.
to balance both policyholder and shareholder needs.
At this stage it is difficult to quantify the final impact on risk-based capital.
Considerable uncertainties remain, arising from the Financial Services Authoritys clarifications needed and renement of realistic model calculations.
However, the effect of provisions made in 2002 and 2003 will mean Abbey has already made significant strides towards providing for the cost of guarantees and options on a realistic basis as required under the new requirements.
In addition, the Financial Services Authority has published its Consultation Paper 207, treating with-profits policy holders fairly, which sets out a wide range of proposals covering the operation of with-profits funds, including the calculation of payouts on maturities and surrenders on with-profits policies.
The implications of these changes are being considered as part of Abbeys overall Integrated Prudential Sourcebook project.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 17 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review Summary continued Issue Capital impact Personal Financial Services mortgage assets Current estimates, based on a range of assumptions relating both Abbeys assets comprise mainly residential mortgages, personal loans and to levels of business and loss estimates, indicate a reduction in bank accounts, and will fall within the retail asset class under Basel II.
risk-weighted assets in the region of 30% to 50%.
Securitisation As yet unclear, but we understand the maximum negative impact The securitisation proposals continue to be one of the few areas of Basel II would be the equivalent of holding the assets on the balance sheet.
that are still subject to a fundamental review.
The latest proposals indicate that the most aggressive approach would eliminate any favourable regulatory capital treatment derived from current securitisation programmes.
Treasury There is likely to be a reduction in trading book risk-weighted assets.
It is possible that some or all of Abbeys remaining Banking books may be reclassied as trading.
Wholesale PBU assets are expected to be immaterial to total risk-weighted assets by the end of 2006.
Life assurance Expected to reduce Abbeys Tier 1 ratio.
Capital deductions are likely to continue to be calculated on the current basis but are expected to be made from Tiers 1 and 2 in equal measure, rather than from total capital.
Expected unexpected losses Abbey anticipates any potential reduction in Tier 2 capital to be at least Revised proposals on the treatment of expected and unexpected losses offset by the exclusion of expected losses in the IRB framework for all within the internal ratings framework for credit risks have been recently assets through a write-back to capital.
Most of this is likely to be in place issued and are currently being reviewed.
Operational risk Abbeys operational risk charge will reect the large proportion of gross This is a new charge with no existing equivalent.
The Standardised Approach income derived from the Retail business line, which is the least risky and is based on gross income by business line multiplied by a factor for that attracts the lowest beta.
business line beta, reecting its relative riskiness.
However, the Basel Committee plans to re-evaluate calibration, which could materially impact the regulatory capital charge under the Standardised Approach.
Pillar 2 Supervisory review There is continuing uncertainty over its regulatory capital impact, if any.
The Basel Committee has recently sought to clarify the purpose of Pillar 2 supervisory review of capital.
However, the FSA is yet to clarify how it proposes to satisfy itself with, and then respond to, a banks approach to Pillar 2.
Potential impact of Consultation Paper 204 Consultation Paper 204 is the Financial Services Authoritys interpretation of the EU Finance Groups Directive, dening the capital necessary for a financial conglomerate with operations in banking, insurance, investment management and building society arenas.
It has particular signicance for those groups operating beneath a holding company structure, which does not apply to Abbey.
The overall impact to Abbey is expected to be broadly neutral, if the consultative paper goes forward in its current form, except for one feature relating to subsidiary life groups.
Life companies must be individually capitalised to meet Minimum Solvency Requirements.
Where there is a Life holding company between these entities and a Financial Services Authority supervised parent bank, the solvency test for that holding company has traditionally been a soft test i. e. providing the parent bank had sufficient surplus capital to meet any shortfall in the life holding companys required solvency, that capital amount did not have to be physically injected.
This discretion is likely to be removed under the European drafting.
While this is not expected to have a material impact on Abbey, the situation will clearly require monitoring, and appropriate action would need to be taken to mitigate any effect.
18 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review Summary continued 2003 compared to 2002 Group summary Loss on ordinary activities before tax of 686m compared to Summarised consolidated statutory profit and Loss Account and 947m in 2002.
Material movements by line include: selected ratios 31 December 31 December 31 December net interest income of 2,148m 2002: 2,689m, down 20%, 2003 2002 2001 m m m with lower average asset balances reecting accelerated Portfolio Business Unit disposals: Net interest income 2,148 2,689 2,692 non-interest income of 284m 2002: 811m, down 65% Non-interest income 284 811 1,319 as a result of increased loss realisations driven from Portfolio Total operating income 2,432 3,500 4,011 Business Unit asset sales: Administrative expenses and administrative expenses and depreciation on xed assets depreciation on xed assets 2,126 1,955 1,820 of 2,126m 2002: 1,955m, up 9%, driven by re-organisation Goodwill impairment and amortisation 38 1,202 36 expenses including asset write-downs, partly offset by savings Depreciation and impairment on from the cost programme: operating lease assets 251 280 256 goodwill impairment and amortisation of 38m which relates primarily to amortisation of remaining Scottish Provident goodwill, Provision for bad and doubtful debts 474 514 263 and is signicantly lower than the charge in 2002 that was driven Provisions for contingent liabilities by goodwill impairments of 1,138m: and commitments 104 50 9 provisions for bad and doubtful debts of 474m 2002: 514m, Amounts written off xed down 8% benefiting from lower Portfolio Business Unit related asset investments 193 511 256 provisions given reduced asset balances: Operating profit loss 754 1,012 1,389 provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments up to Income from associated undertakings 12 17 14 104m 2002: 50m following a 50m provision for product profit on disposal of Group undertakings 89 48 67 misselling exposures: and profit loss on the sale or termination of lower amounts written off xed-asset investments of 193m an operation 33 2002: 511m reecting provisioning raised in 2002 arising from specic counterparty deterioration in the Portfolio Business Unit, profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 686 947 1,470 and consistent with the significant reduction in asset balances during 2003.
Tax on profit loss on ordinary activities 42 152 464 profit loss on ordinary activities 2002 compared to 2001 after tax 644 1,099 1,006 Loss on ordinary activities before tax of 947m compared to a profit of 1,470m in 2001.
Material movements by line item include: Earnings loss per ordinary share 52.4 p 84.8 p 63.2p non-interest income of 811m 2001: 1,319m, down 39%, largely Dividend per ordinary share 25.0p 25.0p 50.0p due to the impact of embedded value charges and rebasing, and Equity Shareholders funds 4,699 5,602 7,521 a 166m decrease in the Banking and Savings segment: Net asset value per ordinary share 321p 384p 468p goodwill impairment and amortisation of 1,202m 2001: 36m, Tier 1 capital ratio 10.1% 9.2% 8.4% increased signicantly due primarily to the impairments of Scottish Provident 604m, First National 357m, and Cater Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 6.9% 6.4% 6.4% Allen Offshore 149m : Closing risk weighted assets bn 61.2 78.7 84.5 provisions for bad and doubtful debts of 514m 2001: 263m, up 95%, primarily due to Wholesale Banking and provisions: provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments increased 59m to 50m in 2002 partly resulting from releases in 2001 of 25m not repeated, with the balance relating to various potential claims: amounts written off xed asset investments of 511m 2001: 256m, up 100%, which related primarily to a marked deterioration in credit quality in certain sectors where Abbey held risk concentration: in 2002 the tax benefit decreased to 152m as compared with 464m in 2001.
This was the result of a decrease in profit before taxes and before the charge for goodwill impairment.
The tax benefit decreased in 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of the non-allowable charge for impairment of goodwill, an increase in the effect of non-allowable provisions and other non-equalised items, and the taxation of dividends received from offshore subsidiaries: this was reected in the loss per share of 84.8 pence: the 2002 full-year dividend of 25.0 pence, down 50% on 2001.
Tier 1 capital remained strong at 9.2% 2001: 8.4%, whilst the Equity Tier 1 ratio remained at at 6.4%.
The negative impact on Equity Tier 1 of the embedded value re-basing and Wholesale Banking provisions, was offset by a reduction of risk-weighted assets of 5.8bn, largely due to asset sales in the Wholesale Bank.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 19 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review Summary continued Summarised consolidated statutory profit and loss account analysed between Personal Financial Services and the Portfolio Business Unit 31 December 2003 31 December 2002 31 December 2001 PFS PBU Total PFS PBU Total PFS PBU Total m m m m m m m m m Net interest income 1,795 353 2,148 1,843 846 2,689 1,819 873 2,692 Non-interest income and charges 615 331 284 617 194 811 969 350 1,319 Total operating income 2,410 22 2,432 2,460 1,040 3,500 2,788 1,223 4,011 Administrative expenses 1,842 284 2,126 1,611 344 1,955 1,481 339 1,820 Goodwill impairment and amortisation 28 10 38 811 391 1,202 36 36 Depreciation of operating lease assets 251 251 23 257 280 97 159 256 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 210 264 474 150 364 514 149 114 263 Provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments 85 19 104 46 4 50 9 9 Amounts written off xed asset investments 10 183 193 2 513 511 24 232 256 Operating loss profit 235 989 754 179 833 1,012 1,010 379 1,389 Income from associated undertakings 1212 17 17 14 14 profit on disposal of Group undertakings 8989 484865 2 67 profit loss on the sale or termination of an operation 33 33 profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 235 921 686 179 768 947 1,075 395 1,470 20 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review Summary continued For a detailed explanation of these items, please refer to the Adjustments between the statutory basis and the Other material items section of the Operating and financial review.
trading basis The Personal Financial Services group of reportable segments Abbeys management reviews discrete financial information for each adjustments are the deduction of: of its segments that includes measures of operating results and embedded value charges and rebasing: assets.
However, due to the differing natures of our ongoing Personal re-organisation costs: and Financial Services group of reportable segments and our Portfolio goodwill charges.
Business Unit group of reportable segments, which is being managed There is also a single reclassication adjustment where depreciation for exit, the Personal Financial Services group of reportable segments on operating lease assets is netted within trading income as opposed and Portfolio Business Unit group of reportable segments is managed to being recorded as a part of operating expenses.
The Personal Financial Services group of reportable The Portfolio Business Unit group of reportable segments segments are managed primarily on the basis of its results, which are adjustments are: measured on a trading basis.
The Portfolio Business Unit group of depreciation on operating lease assets is netted within trading reportable segments is managed both on the basis of its results, income as opposed to being recorded as a part of operating which is measured on a management basis, and on the basis of its net expenses: asset value.
On a consolidated level, the trading results of the Personal income from associated undertakings is reported as part of Financial Services group of reportable segments is aggregated with non-interest income as opposed to being reported below the the management results of the Portfolio Business Unit group of operating loss or profit line: and reportable segments to give our summarised trading profit and Loss profit on disposal of group undertakings is also reported as part Account.
The trading basis for our Personal Financial Services group of non-interest income as opposed to being reported below the of reportable segments and the management basis for our Portfolio operating loss or profit line.
Business Unit group of reportable segments are collectively known The movement of each of these adjustments is discussed in more as the trading basis, as presented below.
detail in the Other material items section.
Management considers that the trading basis provides the most appropriate way of reviewing the performance of the business.
This is because the adjustments are: Embedded value charges and rebasing these are unpredictable as they depend on both equity and debt market trends which do not affect the underlying performance of what is a very long-term business.
The short-term market movements are, however, a very important factor in the management of the business but these are managed separately with a more risk-based focus.
Re-organisation costs Abbey is going through a significant costs-savings and re-organisation exercise, and management needs to understand the underlying drivers of the cost base that will remain after the exercise is complete, and does not want this view to be clouded by the costs of the exercise.
Those costs are managed independently.
Goodwill charges these charges can vary signicantly year on year, and hence can materially affect our profit or loss for that year.
As a result we review these charges separately to avoid clouding the presentation of underlying results.
Depreciation of operating lease assets The operating lease businesses are managed as nancing businesses and therefore management needs to see the margin earned on the businesses.
Residual value risk is separately managed.
As a result we net the depreciation against the related income.
Income from associated undertakings is included within trading income because it is a regular source of income to our operations.
Therefore management believes its inclusion at this level reects our aggregate income from our activities.
profit on disposal of Group undertakings is included within trading income for reasons similar to those noted above relating to our income from associated undertakings.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 21
