05 Review of operations Review of operations Both core businesses reaped the benefit of increased investment.
Boots The Chemists increased market share in key areas and had its best Christmas for a decade.
Boots Healthcare Internationals four-year growth strategy delivered the promised boost to sales and profits ahead of schedule.
Meanwhile Wellbeing Services and Boots Retail International cut out less promising activities to focus on those with greatest potential for profitable growth.
Boots The Chemists and expert service and advice.
We are baby and over the counter OTC Sales m 4,284.4 focused on the health and beauty healthcare.
Market share in toiletries Increase % 5.2 markets and are confident of growing was maintained and we saw a slight profit m before exceptionals 568.6 with them.
We will maintain our decline in our dispensing market share.
Decrease % 6.0 leadership position through innovation, The number of transactions was Sales split m continued development of our store slightly down for the year as a whole, Health 1,716.4 portfolio, understanding of consumer but the long term decline stabilised in Beauty & Toiletries 1,891.9 needs reinforced by analysis of mid-year.
The Advantage Card was a Other 676.1 Advantage Card data, and clear value key driver.
Since relaunching it last year, positioning supported by tight control we have issued a million new cards.
Boots the Chemists showed strong of operating costs.
Operating profit was affected sales growth in the year, particularly by investment in stores, keener in the second half.
The business held Trading Sales rose 5.2% over the year promotions and increased pension or grew market share by value in all 4.8% like for like.
Underlying margins were counter health and beauty categories.
stronger in the second half than in the down by about 1.1 percentage points, The Christmas trading performance first, and growth over the Christmas due largely to pricing, promotions was the best for a decade, and the period was the best for ten years third and a slightly adverse change in the decline in transaction numbers was quarter sales were 8.1% up on the sales mix, partially offset by savings stemmed.
Our prices in commodity previous year.
toiletries and healthcare became Healthcare sales rose by 5.1%, led more competitive, in part passing by our prescriptions business.
Beauty Health The regulation of the pharmacy on the benets of better buying & Toiletries grew by 6.8%, with a market is under review by the and cost efficiencies.
This, together particularly strong performance from Department of Trade and Industry DTI.
with investment in store rets and cosmetics and fragrance.
Sales in other At the time of writing it is unclear what higher pension costs, resulted in a categories, including baby, food, photo, the outcome of the review will be, fall in operating profit to 568.6m seasonal and Digital Wellbeing, grew by however the DTI are known not to before exceptionals.
1.3%, driven by our enhanced Christmas favour total deregulation.
We believe range and a strong performance in that some degree of regulation is Strategy BTCs customer appeal baby products.
necessary to secure convenient access is founded on the trust and heritage We held market share in all counter to community pharmacy for all.
of the Boots brand, broad choice of health and beauty categories with We are keen to work with all the own brand and proprietary products, improvements in cosmetics where we relevant authorities to ensure that innovative new product development saw particularly strong sales growth, any changes to the current regulations Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 06 Review of operations deliver an enhanced service, offer Baby had a good year, with sales up wide access to convenient community 4.7%.
We are supporting this category pharmacies, and play a fuller role with stronger promotions because in the nations primary health care.
they are very effective in raising overall During the year, although we increased footfall.
As a further boost we have the number of prescriptions dispensed, developed the mini mode childrenswear we saw a slight decline in market share range in conjunction with Adams.
because the pattern of prescribing Launched in February, it is making changed to favour older people.
We began a substantial investment Food sales showed no growth over programme in our pharmacy operations, the last year and we saw a decline in installing more carousel style dispensing sales in London affected by increased units which speed-up customer service competition and the downturn in and let pharmacists spend more time tourism.
We relaunched our sandwich consulting with patients.
We have begun packaging in May 2003 to enhance a programme to double the number by customer perceptions of our range.
We also began to introduce Photo sales were down 7.6% in a our new pharmacy system, SmartScript, rapidly declining market, reecting which will further enhance customer customers switching to digital service and give us more detailed photography and the associated information on our dispensing business.
reduction in spending on lms and Since the abolition of Resale Price similar products.
In response we are Maintenance on OTC medicines we have broadening our range of digital gained market share on the back of an cameras and installing instore attractive programme of promotions.
technology to produce photo quality prints from digital memory cards.
Beauty & Toiletries Sales grew strongly Growth in sales of seasonal throughout the year but particularly merchandise was due largely to an over Christmas which saw an increase enhanced range of Christmas lines.
of over 10% overall and sales of beauty The inclusion of a broader assortment gifts up almost 40%.
Sales of premium of products is valued by our customers cosmetics grew by over 15% increasing and helps us to become a destination market share by 1.5% in the year.
We intend to place now sell them in 125 stores and we are more emphasis on seasonal lines in the leading UK retailer the future for example, broadening of a number of major cosmetic brands.
our range of summer related products o 7 Within our own brands N such as swimwear to sell alongside continued to perform strongly with sun preparations.
sales up 14% following the launches During the year we brought the of Intelligent Colour Foundation and wellbeing.
com website in-house and the Skincare Vitamins range.
Mothers Day week was the biggest Total online sales grew 120% in the brands history.
in the year, and average order value Toiletries grew in line with the grew 17% as customers became more market supported by a combination confident online shoppers.
In of innovation and promotion.
New own November 2002 independent research brand ranges included Mediterranean reported a record 592,000 unique branded toiletries Essentials and fcuk visitors, making it the UKs tenth busiest for women.
Boots is also the partner of choice for launching and promoting new Products Product innovation played proprietary products, and last year an important role in the years sales o 7 had the best sales in its we continued to emphasise this area.
N Boots led the launch of the new Gillette history, with Intelligent Colour Mach III Turbo blades in January Foundation proving to be its most attracting immediate share of 60%.
This Some 4 months later we continued innovative foundation is a unique to sell more than our expected share.
silicone gel pigment blend which During the year we ran strong promotions promises to match the skin tones of all in the toiletries category including women with just three shades.
Sales 99 pence price points, and were have exceeded forecast by almost 40%.
o 7 debuts included the relaunch successful in maintaining market share.
Other N In sun preparations sales were up of DailyV Skincare, which is over 14% and we gained 4% of market outperforming the old range by 34%.
share, helped by the strong performance The most successful addition to the of the St Tropez self tan range.
17 range was Fat Lash, a volumising mascara in an innovative tube pack Other Sales grew by 1.3% reversing format which achieved excellent sales the trend of the last two years.
Over a third of Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 07 Review of operations buyers are new to the 17 brand.
investment in marketing and new We continued to extend the popular product development, to deliver a Botanics range.
Its Face Renewal Cream new strategy of building major was named best anti-ageing cream by international consumer healthcare M magazine.
And the simple idea of brands.
A pause in profit growth bundling miniature packs of Botanics was predicted for 2002 03 while we products into themed kits such as the regenerated organic sales growth Facial Pamper Kit and Weekend Pamper through the increased brand Kit has been a great success in investment.
Nevertheless, we have introducing new customers to the brand.
delivered sales growth of 12.3% at The new Mediterranean range comparable exchange rates and proved a good example of turning delivered a 5% rise in operating consumer insights into popular profit.
It capitalises on the popular appeal of Mediterranean diets and Strategy BHI aims to become a top ten lifestyle to create innovative toiletries that global player in OTC healthcare.
We already have annual sales of over 4m.
aim to achieve this by developing six to Innovation and style are part of the eight leading consumer healthcare whole Boots brand offer, not confined brands.
We are driving brand innovation to our premium products.
We have to capture a top three leadership position grown the volume sales of our everyday in our three core OTC categories of value products by bringing them analgesics Nurofen, cough cold together under the Boots Essentials Strepsils and skincare Clearasil, while brand, which has won an award for its also developing new brands.
Essentials now covers our aspirations more rapidly, we will all major toiletry categories washing also seek to acquire brands to which and bathing, haircare and mens.
we can apply our brand rejuvenation and development capabilities.
Store development In addition to our We are aiming to accelerate organic store reinvigoration programme, we growth through increased marketing undertook other schemes including the and new product development retting of our Victoria Centre, expenditure.
We will have greater focus Nottingham store.
Although we on both our development pipeline and reduced the product sales area by 22%, in-market execution.
In 2002 03, over we increased weekly takings by half our organic growth was generated 35,000 per week, representing a sales from products launched during the year.
The years largest product launch Over the next 12 months we will was a major extension of the Clearasil accelerate our store development brand, Clearasil total control, targeting programme.
We have restarted our the high-value young skincare market.
edge of town programme and aim to We also broadened the Nurofen brand open 20 more stores by April 2004. by launching indication-specic In addition, we will undertake many products for conditions such as projects within our existing portfolio menstrual pain.
These projects were of high street stores.
To respond to brought from marketing concept to evolving customer shopping patterns launch within 14 months.
these will be a combination of opening We remain on track to deliver the new stores, space changes and financial projections we communicated closures.
Taken together, these changes to the City in February 2002.
However, to represent a significant increase in our reach our goal of being a top ten player development programme to enhance more rapidly we intend to supplement the quality of our store portfolio.
Boots Healthcare International Results Sales of 460.4m represented Sales m 460.4 top line growth of 13% 12.3% Increase % 13.0 at comparable exchange rates.
profit m before exceptionals 70.1 profit of 70.1m was 5.1% ahead Increase % 5.1 of the previous year.
Core brand sales m In line with the growth plan, brand increase% investment including brand marketing Nurofen 117.8 21.7 and new product development Strepsils 77.8 7.7 expenditure increased by 27.3m, Clearasil 86.9 14.4 moving from 25.1% to 28.3% of sales.
Dermacosmetics 61.5 10.0 Brand marketing expenditure rose by at comparable exchange rates 26%, while new product development spend was up 42% to rebuild the threeIn February 2002 Boots Healthcare year product innovation pipeline.
International BHI announced a Operating margin of 15.2% reected four-year plan to step-up effective control of operating costs, Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 08 Review of operations which fell as a percentage of sales by skin tone.
These have received very 1.5 percentage points, and cost of goods, positive trade reaction as we have built which fell by 0.6 percentage points.
Our research and development In dermacosmetics, total sales rose programme made significant progress by 10%.
E45 sales benefited from new in developing products that will continue product launches including the E45 to build our brands and take us into Junior range.
Lutsine continued to grow new therapy areas.
Clinical trials have strongly in Italy and Spain, but in France progressed well.
sales were disappointing they will Organisational change is focused improve as we benefit from the on four goals: breakthrough brand more unied global platform, further innovation, streamlined decision product innovation, and improved making, building high performance in-market execution.
Opticians & Eyecare, Dentalcare Analgesics Sales of Nurofen grew and Wellbeing Services Sales m 262.5 21.7% at comparable exchange rates, Increase % 13.6 driven by strong performances in the Operating loss m 28.6 UK, Australia and Eastern Europe.
Increase % 13.6 Growth was driven by new products, new packaging such as During the year we decided handbag packs to offer convenience, and quality new advertising.
Key to close our Wellbeing Services launches were Nurofen for Children while retaining Dentalcare and Singles, and Nurofen Recovery in the Footcare.
The Opticians & UK, and Nurofen Menstrual in Poland.
Eyecare business continues to Nurofen Plus strong painkillers led rebuild profits in its core market.
us to pharmacy market leadership The exceptional costs of closing in Australia.
The continuing success Wellbeing Services were 34.5m.
of Nurofen for Children is growing our share of the childrens market in Opticians & Eyecare The UK several parts of Europe.
optical market is a mature one highly competitive and growing at only 2-3% Cough & Cold Strepsils worldwide a year.
Our strategy is to achieve modest growth was 7.7% at comparable sales growth and stable market share, exchange rates.
The roll-out of Strepfen while controlling costs tightly to enhance benefited from the wide distribution profits.
After a period of moving of Strepsils internationally.
We also upmarket we are returning to a broad had early signs of success with our appeal, in keeping with the overall entry into the cough segment in Asia, Boots brand.
extending the brand beyond sore throats.
Sales for our core business grew 7% in the first half, but were weak Skincare Overall sales of core skincare in the second, with a year on year products grew 12.6% at comparable decline of 1% bringing growth for exchange rates, led by strong progress the full year to 3% roughly in line in revitalising Clearasil.
Tight cost control Clearasil sales grew 14.4%, advancing held profits level at 9.6m.
strongly in the US, UK and Australia.
LASIK sales grew 84% increasing Growth has been accelerating, from our market share from 15% to 18%.
4% in the first half to 26% in the We opened 4 new clinics during the second, backed by new TV advertising year at Bluewater, Bristol, Glasgow and extensions of the base range into and Nottingham making a total of nine.
body wash, cleansing wipes, overnight The business made a trading loss treatment gel and sensitive face wash. largely due to higher marketing costs We have switched the brand from in a more competitive market.
We are decline to growth in all major markets now integrating LASIK more closely except Germany and France and with the core Opticians business to expect stronger growth this year from reduce costs and increase cross-referral.
these markets as investment increases.
In the fourth quarter this growth Dentalcare While we have closed our was supplemented in the US and UK by Wellbeing Services we have decided to the launch of the Clearasil total control retain our Dentalcare business.
Private range, which extends Clearasil dentistry is a 2bn market in the UK from spot control to young skincare.
and may have the potential for Boots Targeting women aged 16-24, it to develop a profitable business model.
provides products for the five most Sales rose 64% to 21.8m and we important needs of young skin: shine increased the number of registered reduction, moisturisation, blemish patients by 75% to 175,000.
The control, sun protection and evenness of business is growing well, but we want Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 09 Review of operations to shorten the time it takes to bring In Thailand, we have had a very new practices to profitability.
successful year in turning the business We have changed the model, around.
Strong like for like sales growth moving into line with standard industry of 7%, margin growth and cost reduction practice by transferring our dentists to have signicantly improved the results self-employed status.
This will make it of the business.
easier to recruit and incentivise dentists while making the professional staff cost Supply and support services base more exible.
We believe this will The simplication of the shorten the period to breakeven.
organisation has enabled us to Footcare continues to operate integrate our supply chain, logistics, from 44 locations, in association procurement, IT, manufacturing, with dental practices.
properties, engineering and facilities management activities Insurance Services Health and travel and our retail buying operation in cover is a small but profitable business.
Hong Kong into a single support Sales and profits were in line with the organisation serving all our retail previous year.
Boots Retail International The years principal achievements were Sales m 37.0 the dramatic improvement in on-shelf Decrease % 8.2 availability without which our sales Loss m 22.3 growth would not have been possible Increase % 7.5 and the outsourcing of IT, which will save 100m over 10 years.
We have found that there is significant demand for Boots Supply chain Now that on-shelf own brand and exclusive products availability is running at acceptable in some overseas markets.
We will levels, we can begin to reduce the meet this demand through the large distribution inventories that use of a low cost export model we currently hold around the country.
with retail partners who host Boots In June we opened a new brand implants in their stores.
automated single-picking warehouse on our Nottingham site to support Strategy BRI has 66 stores and 106 our dispensing operations.
This now implants, almost all in South East Asia.
provides top-up deliveries to all our Our strategy is now based on export pharmacies every morning.
It is the sales through low cost, low risk biggest system of its kind in Europe and implants selling a select range of about has enabled us to close our Aldershot 800 Boots own brand and exclusive warehouse and downsize Heywood, products through selected host reducing total headcount by 700. retailers.
This simplied approach This year we have launched a supply enables us to focus on managing the chain transformation programme instore offer, controlling costs and involving long term structural building scale.
change, including rationalisation of manufacturing.
The aim is to deliver Performance Overall sales were in line best in class on-shelf availability in with the previous year, in a period of parallel with reductions in cost and major change involving the closure of working capital.
stores and opening of many implants.
We are working towards a supply In Thailand like for like sales grew 7%.
chain that will replenish stores stocks The operating loss of 22.3m includes of most lines every day delivering 5.5m for exiting the loss making straight to the shelf.
We will only hold European operations and restructuring inventory in store stockrooms for the our business in Asia.
few lines such as nappies and seasonal items that need replenishing more than South East Asia A year ago we once a day.
This will deliver significant announced agreement with Watsons, savings in store staff time, and reduce South East Asias leading drugstore inventory.
Trials of the new replenishment chain, to open implants in Taiwan.
We now have 54 implants in Watsons Currently there are multiple locations stores.
We are now simplifying our holding balanced stocks around the Taiwan operation, growing to around country.
Vehicle capacity utilisation is 100 implants, closing our Boots stores low because of inherent inefficiencies and shipping direct to Watsons.
We are moving towards In October we launched a similar category-specic warehouses supplying arrangement with Watsons in Hong regional distribution centres which Kong, where we now have eight implants will crossfeed into delivery vehicles and performance to date is encouraging.
Transport will be better Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 10 Review of operations integrated, greatly improving vehicle a new merchandising and supply utilisation.
On the upstream side, chain system.
we will also move closer to just-in-time We have installed 2,290 new touchdelivery from suppliers.
All these screen tills in 218 stores as part of the changes will use proven technology store reinvigoration programme.
This and should result in better customer year we will add a further 3,000 new service at much lower cost.
tills in 109 large stores in time for the We will also outsource all our Christmas season.
transport services and the management We continue to develop the of a major Nottingham warehouse.
Advantage Cards capabilities, upgrading the instore kiosk system to generate Manufacturing We have completed more personalised offers based on a review aimed at simplifying and individual customers spending patterns.
rationalising production capacity, and in Very few retailers anywhere are able to February 2003 we announced proposals use their loyalty cards in this way, and to close our Airdrie manufacturing we are continuing to add enhancements.
facility over the next two years.
Savings from the closure will amount to 16m Property Our property team has greatly a year.
About 1,000 people work simplied its processes, to improve the at the site and we have declared our efficiency of its acquisition, construction determination to minimise the social and maintenance operations.
It is now impact of any closure.
Closure of Airdrie clearly focused on servicing the Boots will allow us to realign production The Chemists and the disposal of its resources in favour of short-cycle investment and development portfolios manufacturing.
Until now, big-batch is almost complete.
Last year we production has meant that some lines realised 61m from disposals, are made infrequently resulting 23m from investment properties in large inventories, exposure to and 38m from Halfords sites.
forecasting errors and slow response The only sites remaining to be sold to changing fashions.
The investment are the shopping centres at Hastings cost of switching to short-cycle and Kendal.
The plan is to dispose of manufacturing will be relatively low these in the current financial year.
because we will be able to adapt existing equipment, including some transferred from Airdrie.
Purchasing During the year we reduced purchasing costs by 30m, mainly in buying goods not for resale.
We are continuing to make effective use of global internet auctions, saving money on purchases ranging from TV advertising to plastic bags.
IT In 2001 02 we reorganised our IT function, bringing 14 groups into one and establishing an integrated business process and information systems blueprint for the future.
In the past year we have made real progress in the development and implementation of that blueprint, Project Backbone, and announced investment of 79m in the coming year.
To support our new IT strategy we have outsourced our IT operations under contracts worth a total of 800m, transferring over 600 staff to IBM and Xansa.
The result will be annual savings of 8m immediately, and a total of 100m over the ten-year contract period.
These savings will help to offset investment in new systems and processes that support the organisational change going on across the business.
By the end of this year we will have made substantial progress in implementing new finance, human resource, space and range planning systems, and will be about to begin deploying Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
