Operational review 19 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PROVIDES EXCITING OPPORTUNITIES IN WHAT IS A VERY DYNAMIC MARKET Employee Benefits is a business that complements Risk & Insurance.
Key characteristics of the business include long-term contracts which give sustainability of future revenue and business activities which are not impacted by insurance market cycles.
Employee Benefits UK Ireland UK Ireland 51.1m Employee benefits consulting USA 25.1m Corporate benefits administration Turnover 76.2m UK life & pensions administration USA Product marketing Medical and dental administration 20 Employee Benefits Group revenue increased In the longer term, closed defined benefit by 2.3% to 76.2 million an increase of 5% schemes will provide fewer consulting at constant rates of exchange.
However, JLT is well placed was 10.1 million, an increase of 22% on to secure new contracts as employers 2002, giving a trading margin of 13% and trustees seek better value service for compared to 11% in the prior year.
Profit before tax was 9.7 million, up from 7.0 million, an increase of 38%.
For our UK Employee Benefits business, 2004 has started well and we have a very In the UK and Ireland, revenue was 51.1 strong new business pipeline, with a particular million, 8% ahead of 2002 7% at constant focus on expanding our business in the rates of exchange.
The trading margin traditional pensions market and becoming a improved from 11% to 13%.
leading provider of broader HR services.
As reported last year our UK revenue JLT has a market leading position as one growth was masked by the rapid decline of the largest suppliers of outsourced of one-off pension misselling review work, administration services to third party some of which continued into 2003. pension providers and remains committed Excluding this, underlying growth in 2003 to growing relationships with the life industry.
In this regard, 2003 saw contract renewals with a number of major clients for new multiRevenues were driven through a mixture of year terms.
This position was further new client acquisitions, client penetration and consolidated with the acquisition of AMPs fee increases at contract renewals.
executive pensions operation in Cardiff in October 2003 and included the transfer of New business gains were achieved across 40 staff to JLT.
the full range of our services.
In the corporate pensions market we enjoyed a regular flow In the USA, revenue was 25.1 million, of new appointments, whereas in the life a decline of 7%, reflecting the weakness and pensions sector appointments are more of the dollar in 2003.
At constant rates of significant but the sales cycle more extended.
However, the trading margin improved from We have a significant benefits consulting 11% to 14% and this business has been business, which complements our pensions repositioned for growth.
Our consulting services have opportunities to advise clients Overall, our Employee Benefits business on scheme solvency issues and benefit has put in place a strategy to capitalise redesign and we expect further opportunities on the opportunities that its dynamic market to emerge from the Tax Simplification process.
presents and has made a good start in 2004.
The continued shift from defined benefit to defined contribution provision not only generates further outsourcing opportunities, but has underpinned our consulting revenue, which grew by 10% in 2003.
