Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 8 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review Stanley Fink Chief Executive Chief Executives Strategic Overview Strategically we have further strengthened The Man Group has enjoyed a very successful and Operating Review both our businesses in the year.
The year both in terms of continued strong profits acquisition of RMF has brought us real scale growth and business development.
We have in the institutional market and access to a seen continued strong demand for our solutions-based approach to portfolio products in both our businesses, achieved construction for this class of investor.
all our financial targets, and positioned both RMF has been integrated within Asset our businesses for strong growth with two Management so as to broaden and deepen strategic acquisitions, RMF and GNI.
the skills in the combined business and utilise Mans established distribution Significant progress has been made towards capabilities to maximum advantage.
We are achieving our long-standing key financial and already seeing the early signs of the potential strategic objectives: of this combination, with an institutional investor in RMF entering into a joint-venture Delivering significant growth in underlying distribution of private client product for its earnings per share as defined on page 1. own customers.
In the US we are making Driven by strong growth in funds under progress and now have a private client fund management, net management fee income of funds product available for distribution.
before goodwill amortisation is up over We expect to broaden the range of our US 54% to 181.1 million.
Together with our private client offering over the coming year Brokerage business, this has resulted in by introducing structured products tailored diluted underlying earnings per share for this market.
We will continue to invest in increasing by 33% to 60.7p.
people, systems and infrastructure to provide scale to Asset Management to cater for Maintaining high levels of return on capital.
In Brokerage we The acquisition of RMF has had the effect of are well advanced with integrating the GNI almost doubling the Groups capital base in activities acquired in November.
GNI brings the current period.
Post-tax return on equity strength in equity derivatives and further in the current period was nevertheless a very enhances the market position of Brokerage.
Brokerage is well placed strategically in its main futures and options markets and is Doubling the level of funds under using its customer relationships and market management within three years from its presence to develop an increasing range of level of $6.7 billion at 31 March 2001. product capabilities.
Excluding RMF, in the two years to 31 March 2003, funds under management have more than doubled to $15.0 billion.
RMFs funds under management were $11.1 billion at 31 March, having increased 28% from $8.7 billion in the 10 months since acquisition.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 9 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review Asset Management Strategic review Whilst this growth is impressive, the sums Alternative investment market invested represent under 2% of the worlds Man is an independent and global leader in liquid assets of $58,000 billion, suggesting alternative investments, providing innovative that there is room for continued strong products and tailor-made solutions for private growth.
Man has always focused its Asset Management activities 31 December 2002 US$ bn exclusively on alternative investments and World Bond Markets 38,000 our track record stretches back two World Equity Markets 20,000 decades.
The strength of this track record is Total 58,000 critical in an industry whose central goal is to Source: Merrill Lynch and Federation of Stock Markets provide diversification away from traditional equity and bond investments.
Man is well placed to take advantage of this structural shift in global asset allocations.
The part played by alternative investments in We have been managing and structuring asset allocation strategies looks set to grow alternative investment products since 1983, in the decades ahead.
Today, a flourishing during which time we have been continually community of private and institutional enhancing both our product range and building investors look to established managers global distribution.
Mans development and capable of delivering superior risk-adjusted approach to business has always been performance whether markets are rising guided by the needs of clients.
in meeting the requirements of the marketplace is built on a firm foundation of experience, Alternative investments provide a separate creativity, specialisation, and a robust source of return to traditional investments approach to investment management.
such as cash, bonds and equities.
Recognition of the advantages of alternative investments As investors have sought to identify the best has led to a rapid expansion of the various alternative investment managers, institutional alternative asset classes.
Current estimates and private investors have been primarily suggest that over $600 billion is invested in attracted to established businesses with alternative assets excluding private equity robust business infrastructures and long, and real estate.
As can be seen in the chart solid track records.
Our strong track record below, alternative assets were up 15% in and established presence in this industry 2002, having grown at over 20% per annum has allowed us to grow funds under over the last 12 years.
Excluding the funds under management in RMF that we acquired in May 2002, we have grown funds at 48% Growth of the global hedge fund industry compound per annum over the last five years, over twice the industry growth rate Number of hedge funds for that period.
of hedge funds US$ bn Growth in funds under management US$bn 600 5000 500 4000 Private client 400 3000 Institutional 300 2000 200 98 1000 100 99 0 0 00 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 01 02 Source: Hedge Fund Research As at 31 December 03 05 10 15 20 25 Source: Man database Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 10 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review Chris Chambers Chief Executive, Man Investments Business model We believe this enhanced model will enable We acquired RMF at the end of May 2002. our Asset Management division to achieve This opportunity has provided the Group its strategic vision of sustaining its leading with a broadened range of investment presence in the alternative assets sector as management content, enhanced strength in a fully integrated provider of a wide range of tailored solutions and access to other asset alternative strategies to all classes of investor.
classes including private equity and leveraged This should allow it to take full advantage of finance.
The transaction significantly diversified the continued growth in the alternative assets the Groups customer base through RMFs marketplace.
leading position as a provider of alternative solutions to European institutions and has We believe that Man is unrivalled as a given the Group critical mass in the institutional full service provider in its ability to provide market.
a combination of high-quality money management skills, product-structuring Asset Management now operates an expertise and access to a global client base.
integrated business, including RMF, with Our approach to business is holistic and the following key characteristics: integrated, operating within a three-tier framework, as shown in the following diagram: Several autonomous and distinctive investment management engines: Asset Management Value Chain A unified framework of product development, structuring and management capabilities: Fully-integrated distribution strength focused according to target markets pension funds insurers distribution channels A single coherent global structure for distribution: and Fully-integrated product development and structuring capability Unified support functions and central management.
Divisional To reflect the completion of the organisational Content visible market-leading brands & solutions Management integration, Man has rebranded the Asset single manager multi-manager Management division.
The operation is now known as Man Investments whilst at the Other investment AHL Diversified Glenwood RMF External JV HF strategies same time continuing to emphasise the Futures CTA Hedge FoF Hedge FoF Managers private equity, leveraged finance etc distinctive and diverse attractions of its individual investment management brands AHL, RMF, Glenwood, Man Global Strategies Central Support Services and others.
This structure allows the Information Services Compliance Finance HR Logistics investment managers to maintain integrity while still providing an integrated product and sales approach.
The launch of the new structure and identity coincides with the twentieth anniversary of Mans pioneering role in the alternative investments industry.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 11 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review The three tiers of this framework are Structured Products: The majority Number of intermediaries discussed below.
of these products provide principal protection as at 31 March for portfolios that invest across a range of Distribution styles and managers with the objective of 1200 Man sells its products through a powerful reducing risk relative to return.
They typically 1,282 1,011 distribution network with established offices offer increased investment exposure and 1000 805 strategically located to serve its clients require a high level of structuring expertise in 800 709 around the world.
The head office for sales order to meet different fiscal, legal, liquidity, 600 504 and marketing is based in Pfffikon, risk transfer and financing requirements.
400 Switzerland along with sales support that 285 provides desk-based support to the regional Funds of Hedge Funds: These products 200 offices.
In Europe we have two sales offices, allocate capital to a broad range of hedge 0 one in Switzerland to provide focused cover fund styles, strategies and managers via March March March March March March 98 99 00 01 02 03 for German speaking Europe, and one in an expert fund of hedge funds manager.
London to cover the rest of Europe and Portfolio construction is driven by the Source: Man Database Africa.
North America is covered from requirement for risk diversification across a Chicago and South America from our office Product development and structuring broad range of strategies and the goal of in Montevideo.
In the Middle East we have Rigour, insight and experience are harnessing the performance of the most offices in Bahrain and Dubai.
Our Tokyo fundamental to the structuring and talented managers.
office supports our Japanese franchise, management of successful alternative the Australasian continent is covered by investment products and solutions.
Man has Style Products: These products provide our OMSI joint venture and the rest of Asia spent two decades understanding client efficient exposure to specific hedge fund is serviced from Hong Kong.
requirements, identifying opportunities and styles by allocating capital to appropriate developing leading-edge products and tailorstrategies within each style and harnessing There are three pillars to Mans sales made solutions that cater to the varied needs the investment skills of complementary institutional, joint venture and intermediary of institutional and private clients.
Institutional sales are generally year, Man launched 33 new products and made directly to institutions.
The joint venture currently actively manages 236 funds.
Single Manager Products: These products business is where we work with another offer exposure to the investment approach financial institution, typically a bank, and Since the launch of its earliest principal of individual managers.
construct a customised product to meet protected product in 1985, Man has earned their specific requirements.
a considerable reputation for its market The importance we attach to structuring leadership in the design and management capabilities is highlighted by the fact that Thirdly, Man has an extensive intermediary of structured products.
The attraction of the business unit responsible for developing network covering a very wide array of financial these products is reinforced by our risk and structuring products and solutions is the professionals with a client base of private management experience and ability to largest in the division.
These intermediaries comprise arrange financing as part of our product drawn from various academic backgrounds IFAs, brokers, asset managers, banks structuring capability.
and share a wealth of investment experience.
and professionals such as lawyers and The ability effectively to combine expertise in accountants.
In some cases this has been Our structuring expertise enables us to offer different disciplines, particularly finance and achieved by accessing the distribution a range of product types.
A number of our investment banking, law and mathematics, capabilities of those financial institutions that products are permanently open to investment.
contributes significantly to Mans ability to are already familiar with our product.
During The bulk of our structured offerings provide provide a powerful and comprehensive the year Man has continued to build out its principal protection in the form of capital product and solution structuring service distribution platform by increasing both the guarantees, with a fixed life to maturity and to clients.
number and quality of its intermediaries.
Man has a powerful global presence and an extensive network of distribution partners.
During the year Man has continued to build out its distribution platform by increasing both the number and quality of its intermediaries.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 13 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review The product and solution structuring team For the private client investor, our structured AHL builds on the investment content and composite products have been the most AHL implements two main managed portfolio construction skills of Mans core sought after, and these products currently futures investment programmes the investment managers by applying its skills account for about 68% of our private client AHL Diversified Programme and the AHL in consulting and assessment, financial assets under management.
For many years Institutional Programme.
AHL seeks to engineering, legal structuring, product we have been structuring products for this identify and take advantage of upward management, financing, liquidity market which offer a guaranteed return of and downward price trends.
Trading takes management and performance analysis.
principal at maturity of the fund, typically in place around-the-clock and real time price The driving force for our continual innovation around 10 years time, in some cases with a information is used to respond to price moves in the area of structured products and step-up guarantee to lock in a level of good across a diverse range of global markets.
solutions is our commitment to a complete performance across the term of the product.
The instruments traded are primarily futures structuring service in the context of a These guarantees are provided by third-party and OTC foreign exchange forwards and constantly changing fiscal, legal, accounting banks and other financial institutions, who metal contracts.
Investment rules are and investment environment, both globally have a detailed understanding of our risk executed within a systematic framework.
Through joint ventures and management and product structuring marketing partnerships, we are also able capabilities and with whom the Group has Sophisticated research led to the formulation to provide private labeling services for established strong relationships.
of the AHL investment approach in 1983 customised products.
and remains central to the managers ability to In conjunction with our good performance extend the range and versatility of the original Our principal protection structures have track record, being able to provide these investment techniques.
The cornerstone of the evolved to incorporate new features such guarantee structures and to meet investor AHL investment philosophy is that financial as profit lock-ins, which make provision for wishes for other attributes such as monthly markets experience anomalies or inefficiencies profits to be locked-in so that the level of liquidity, has enabled us to offer attractive in the form of price trends, which arise as a principal protection at maturity is raised products at the premium end of the market.
result of serial correlation or crowd behaviour.
above the initial capital invested.
Structuring Although they vary in their intensity, duration advances and sophisticated financing Investment managers and frequency, price trends are a universal arrangements also enable us to optimise Mans core investment managers form the and recurrent phenomenon across all cash usage for increasingly diversified foundation of the business.
Our managers markets and sectors.
As a persistent type of portfolios that include cash-intensive hedge provide the investment content for products.
market inefficiency, trends are an attractive fund strategies.
Yet our approach to creating Each investment manager has distinct focus for active trading styles applied across and managing principal protected structures expertise in one or more of the alternative a diverse range of global markets.
continues to be guided by the requirement asset classes we offer.
This expertise is that every portfolio should be robust able manifest in a diverse range of portfolios In addition to a well-grounded investment to withstand market shocks and maintain offering different target risk reward profiles.
philosophy and a dedicated team of the trading capital required to achieve its investment specialists, AHL owes much target performance.
AHL implements managed futures of its success to a robust and finely tuned investment programmes.
These trading and implementation infrastructure.
Using our range of managers and investment programmes are quantitative and primarily Every aspect of the investment and styles we can provide a high degree of directional in nature, meaning that they execution process is analysed in detail flexibility in asset allocation and a consistent seek to take advantage of upward and to identify and extract efficiency gains.
and thorough approach to risk management.
Refinements to the investment process This allows us to offer a range of products have been as much a feature of the to meet a variety of investor needs and RMF provides fund of hedge funds and manager's history as the continuity of the which can evolve to reflect prevailing tailor-made solutions for institutional AHL investment philosophy and principles circumstances.
investors as well as convertible bond diversification, discipline, efficiency, rigorous and leveraged finance products.
risk control and ongoing research.
Glenwood was a pioneer in providing multi-manager funds of hedge funds portfolios that target low risk.
Man Global Strategies constructs and manages style and multi-strategy portfolios, including structured product portfolios often with principal protection, mainly targeted at private investors.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 14 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review The overall performance of AHL is illustrated RMF RMF Portfolio performance comparison by the AHL Diversified Programme, as shown RMF provides robust investment solutions 1 August 1999 to 31 March 2003 in the table below.
The programme has focused on skill-based strategies in hedge proven its ability to outperform world stocks funds, leveraged finance and convertible RMF World stocks World bonds with controlled risk: the AHL Diversified fund bonds.
In each of these asset classes, 1400 has recorded a compound annual return of RMF strives to create stable investments 20% from 20 December 1990 to 31 March and to maximise risk-adjusted return 1200 2003.
The returns from AHL have an potential.
The overwhelming majority of the extremely low correlation to stock market managers assets under management are in 1000 returns over the period since inception AHL hedge funds, more specifically hedge style has a 0.20 correlation to the MSCI World and fund of hedge fund portfolios.
on extensive know-how in different investment 600 disciplines and established relationships 1 2000 2001 2002 2003 within the alternative investment community, Man-AHL Diversified Programme the various RMF teams are able to access performance Index value US$ log scale high quality managers and practitioners.
20 December 1990 to 31 March 2003 RMF places a premium on strategies with RMFFour World World Seasons US$ stocks bonds Man-AHL Diversified Programme predictable outcomes and clearly definable Total return 27.7% 35.7% 31.1% World stocks added value.
Annualised return 6.9% 11.3% 7.7% 11000 9000 Annualised volatility 3.4% 16.6% 7.6% Founded in 1992, RMF is one of the few 6000 Worst drawdown 1.4% 46.3% 6.8% investment managers in the alternative Sharpe ratio 0.56 neg 0.35 4000 investment industry indeed, the broader 3000 Source: Man database and Standard & Poors Micropal.
financial services sector to have achieved RMF Portfolio: represented by the performance of RMF Four Seasons 2000 ISO Standard 9001:2000 certification for net of fees and commissions from 1 August 1999 to 31 March 2003.
World Stocks: MSCI World Stock Index total return.
World bonds: Salomon Quality Management Systems.
This certification World Government Bond Index total return.
1000 also covers part of the product development and structuring unit, as well as other aspects Glenwood 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 of the business.
The manager is processGlenwood has been selecting and combining Index value US$ log scale driven, believing that rigorous business hedge funds to generate strong risk-adjusted processes make for a whole that is greater returns since 1987, making it one of the Man-AHL World 1 than the sum of its parts.
Each of the Diversified stocks most long-established fund of hedge fund numerous business processes is documented, Total return 832.3% 110.4% managers.
Glenwood constructs its multiaudited by external auditors, and subject Annualised return 19.8% 6.2% manager hedge fund portfolios to target low to continuous evaluation.
Work flows and Annualised volatility 17.2% 14.2% risk.
It seeks to minimise manager, strategy processes are supported by state-of-the-art Worst drawdown 21.1% 46.3% and market risk by investing across large technology, much of it proprietary.
Sharpe ratio 0.86 0.09 numbers of approved managers that Source: Man database and Standard & Poors Micropal.
implement complementary investment 1 Man-AHL Diversified: represented by the actual track record for Athena The advantages of an investment model strategies aimed at exploiting clear market Guaranteed Futures Limited from 20 December 1990 to 31 March 2003 comprising clearly defined modules or inefficiencies.
prior to 1 October 1997, actual trading results have been adjusted to reflect the current guaranteed public fee structure.
World Stocks: MSCI World building blocks are that it enables a scaleable Stock Index total return.
handling of business volume whilst avoiding Through its long-standing experience in the any major dependency on key employees hedge fund industry, Glenwood has built up and facilitating consistent and repeatable an extensive network of industry contacts.
In effect, it allows the managers It continues to develop enduring relationships investment professionals to focus their with those managers that are deemed attention and energies on matters of exceptional, enabling it to access some substance rather than procedure providing of the best management skills available.
a framework within which to capture and The experience, expert knowledge and exploit the benefits of alternative investment judgement of its investment professionals strategies to full effect.
The versatility of its give Glenwood a competitive advantage investment model means RMF has the over many other industry players in flexibility to create tailored portfolios geared identifying managers and evaluating their to meeting the performance specifications business infrastructures.
Glenwood is now of both institutional and private clients.
one of the most established fund of hedge fund managers in the world.
It has an experienced investment team and clients that include some of the most significant institutional investors.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 15 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review Since its inception Glenwood, and more selects managers it identifies as offering An example of a more recent Man multirecently Man-Glenwood, have shown a sustainable competitive advantage and strategy product is the Man Multi-Strategy annualised capital growth of around 11% the potential to add value to its portfolios.
This successful multi-strategy with low volatility during the period 1 January It strives to establish close associations multi-adviser investment approach was 1987 to 31 March 2003. with the managers it selects by forming joint introduced in July 2000 with the launch venture relationships, affiliations, or capacity of Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Limited.
These relationships afford The approach provides access to multiple Man-Glenwood Portfolio performance Man Global Strategies a high degree of investment strategies, many of which have 1 January 1987 to 31 March 2003 visibility over its associated managers relatively low correlation to traditional assets investments and styles of operation.
In representing some of the key hedge fund Man-Glenwood World stocks World bonds parallel with its associated managers, Man style groups including securities selection Global Strategies has the ability to make long short, event driven, managed futures 6000 5000 allocations to Man Investments core and arbitrage.
As can be seen in the chart 4000 managers, AHL, Glenwood and RMF.
below, Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed 3000 Limited has demonstrated its value as part The Man-IP 220 products comprise Mans of a diversified portfolio.
2000 first family of multi-strategy structured products.
The initial offering in this series Performance of Man Multi-Strategy was Man-IP 220 Limited which was launched 1000 Guaranteed Ltd in December 1996.
It was structured to 15 July 2000 to 31 March 2003 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 give an exposure of $160 to a combination Index value US$ log scale of AHL Diversified Programme and the Man Multi-Strategy World stocks Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund for each World bonds ManWorld World $100 invested, as well as benefiting from 1 1.6 Glenwood stocks bonds a capital guarantee at maturity.
1.4 Total return 438.8% 191.8% 302.9% 1.2 Annualised return 10.9% 6.8% 9.0% Annualised volatility 6.3% 15.4% 7.9% Man-IP 220 Limited 1 18 December 1996 to 31 March 2003 Worst drawdown 13.6% 46.3% 8.6% 0.8 Sharpe ratio 0.95 0.12 0.50 Man-IP220 World stocks Source: Man database and Standard and Poors Micropal.
1 Man-Glenwood portfolio: represented by the performance of Glenwood 0.6 30 Partners L. P. net of fees and commissions from 1 January 1987 to 31 December 1995 and Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund from 1 January 25 1996 to 31 March 2003.
World bonds: Salomon World Government Bond Index total return.
20 2001 2002 2003 15 Index value US$ log scale Man Global Strategies Man Global Strategies constructs and Man Multimanages style and multi-strategy portfolios, 10 Strategy Guaranteed World World including the portfolios for Man Investments Ltd stocks bonds structured products.
Man developed its first 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 Total return 44.8% 43.0% 29.0% multi-strategy structured product in 1996.
Index value US$ log scale Annualised return 14.4% 18.5% 9.7% Man Global Strategies also creates customised Annualised volatility 12.1% 16.4% 7.8% portfolios in conjunction with institutional Man-IP220 World Worst drawdown 11.1% 44.6% 6.8% Limited stocks partners operating in local markets around Sharpe ratio 0.77 neg 0.60 Total return 200.8% 0.5% the world.
Source: Man database and Standard and Poors Micropal.
Annualised return 19.0% 0.1% The performance record shown for Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Limited Annualised volatility 19.1% 16.6% is based on US$ denominated returns.
World Stocks: MSCI World Stock Man Global Strategies focuses on hedge Index total return.
World bonds: Salomon World Government Bond Index Worst drawdown 19.9% 46.3% fund styles with favourable performance total return.
Sharpe ratio 0.73 neg characteristics and then develops and blends Source: Man database and Standard and Poors Micropal.
diversified portfolios both within and between World Stocks: MSCI World Stock Index total return.
Man Global Strategies sources and Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 16 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review Operating review The chart below breaks out the components Funds under management US$m of the development of funds under management in the year.
As can be seen March 2002 RMF Sales Investment Redemptions FX and other March 2003 acquisition Performance the key feature, other than the acquisition of RMF, has been the continued strong level 884 of sales.
1,701 2,546 6,667 11,084 RMF Sales 8,674 33 new products were launched during Glenwood 5,040 the year.
The increase in funds under 4,621 management in the year from Mans four global launches, Man AP Strategic Series 6,312 AHL 4,106 1 and 2, Man-IP 220 Series 4 and Man Multi- 1,997 3,668 Other Strategy Series 4 was $2,192 million.
Joint 10,724 26,104 Total venture sales including OM-IP 220 Series 7 and 8 accounted for $762 million.
Other private client sales accounted for $1,334 million and institutional sales $2,379 million, We have continued to enhance our sales Man-IP 220 Series 4 is part of our successful which includes $2,055 million from RMF.
and marketing presence in North America.
This launch Agreements have been concluded with a continued to be based around the core Demand for our products comes from number of intermediaries for distributing investment approaches of the Man-AHL around the world and historically our a US-registered product, Man-Glenwood Diversified Programme and the Manstrongest private client markets have been Lexington LLC.
Private client sales in North Glenwood Portfolio.
It is targeting returns Western Europe excluding the UK, South America in the year to 31 March 2003 were of 1718% per annum and benefits from East Asia including Australia and New $80 million.
an investment exposure of US$ Euro 160 Zealand and the Middle East.
Sales this year for every US$ Euro 100 invested.
have broadly reflected this mix with Europe The latest product launches covered and in particular Switzerland and Asia a full range of investment strategies and Man Multi-Strategy Series 4 was the fourth in Pacific being particularly strong this year.
offered varying levels of targeted returns a family of multi-strategy products focused on We began selling structured products in the and volatility.
These products also offered four broad categories: securities selection US in the last quarter of this financial year investors a range of features including: long short, event driven, managed futures and and anticipate that US sales will represent increased investment exposure through market neutral and arbitrage.
It targets returns a growing share of our private client sales leverage: capital guarantees from highly rated of 15% per annum with the aim of restricting during the coming years as our intermediary banks to return at least 100% of subscribers volatility to around 10%, and benefits from an network there develops.
initial investment at maturity: profit lock-in investment exposure of US$ Euro 150 for every features that may allow the guarantee level US$ Euro 100 invested.
Sales in the year were split 64% private to rise: and giving investors a choice of both client product and 36% institutional product.
A chart of sales by region is shown below: Man AP Strategic Series 1 and 2, the first global launches of the financial year, were Sales year to 31 March 2003 structured as a more conservative product with exposure to the full range of alternative 4 investment strategies.
They are targeting returns of 1416% per annum over the 3 medium term.
1 2 1 Europe: 53% 2002: 36% 2 Asia Pacific: 26% 2002: 30% 3 America: 12% 2002: 22% 4 Middle East: 9% 2002: 12% Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 17 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review The Man-IP 220 Series 4 and Man MultiAHL generated a strong return of 31.7% Strategy Series 4 products are the first to in the year.
Trends in all major markets gave be launched by Man which carry capital rise to profitable trading opportunities in the guarantees, from highly rated banks, to first half of the year.
These trends reversed in return at least 120% of subscribers initial October and November, but the trends were investment at maturity.
then resumed in December and contributed some strong returns through to February There were two successful OM-IP launches before the trends finally turned in the lead by our Australian joint venture, OM Strategic up to the war in Iraq in March.
Investments, which raised a total of $214 million of client money.
The OM-IP 220 Series Man-Glenwood saw a small negative 7 and 8 have a similar structure to the Manperformance due to a poor first half when IP 220 family.
equity-based strategies suffered due to the weakness of the equity markets.
However, The global launch of Man Multi-Strategy the second half performance improved Series 5 Ltd raised $725 million of client showing a small positive performance money and started trading in April 2003. offsetting most of the first half losses.
It is therefore not included in the sales figures for the year to 31 March 2003.
It was the first Man-IP, as represented in the above table, in the Man Multi-Strategy product family to is a structured product giving an exposure to offer investors a choice of both capital and a combination of AHL Diversified Programme income bonds as well as carrying a guarantee and the Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund.
of return of capital at maturity along with a profit lock-in feature that may allow the In RMF, performance was solid throughout guarantee level to rise.
the year with diversified multi-manager products, such as RMF Four Seasons, Investment performance generating returns in excess of 5% with a The net change in funds under management low associated volatility of just over 2%.
from movement in the value of underlying investments after performance and Redemptions management fees for the year was a positive Redemption levels in private client products $1,701 million.
As can be seen from the table in the year were slightly higher than last year below, the one, three and five year performance but still towards the lower end of the range records have continued to be strong.
we have experienced over the medium term.
Institutional redemption levels were significantly Performance records lower.
Asset Management typically expects Compound annual rate of return redemptions in private client products to to 31 March 2003 average between 13%18% in any one financial year.
This is based on historical 1 year to 3 years to 5 years to experience and it should be noted there is 31 March 31 March 31 March 2003 2003 2003 little correlation between redemptions and 1 AHL Diversified Programme 31.7% 19.7% 18.3% fund performance.
Redemptions are a 2 Man-IP 27.6% 18.6% 18.5% function of a number of factors including 3 Man-Glenwood 1.9% 3.8% 5.9% geographical diversity.
Furthermore, early 4 4 RMF 5.7% 5.4% n a redemption charges and the lengthening HFRI Fund of Funds life of the products encourage investors Composite Index 1.1% 0.7% 4.5% to maintain the long-term view.
S&P 500 24.8% 15.9% 3.6% FTSE 100 29.2% 15.3% 6.5% Source: Man database, Standard & Poors Micropal and HFRI Fund of Funds Composite Index.
1 AHL Diversified: represented by Athena Guaranteed Futures Limited.
2 Man-IP: represented by Man-IP 220 Limited.
3 Man-Glenwood: represented by Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund Limited.
4 RMF: represented by RMF Four Seasons Fund.
Inception July 1999 so five year track record not available.
Note: All figures are shown net of fees and commissions, where applicable.
S&P 500 and FTSE 100 figures include gross dividends reinvested into the index.
The integration of RMF has positioned Man as a market leading provider of a wide range of alternative strategies to all classes of investor.
The integration of GNI has consolidated Mans strong position across futures and options exchanges, allowing Man to enhance order execution to the benefit of its customers.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 19 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review Kevin Davis Managing Director, Man Financial Brokerage Man Financial Exchange rankings Strategic review As at 31 March 2003 Our Brokerage business, Man Financial, is one of the worlds major futures and options Man brokers and commands a global financial Financial share of presence with offices in New York, Chicago, Exchange volume Ranking Electronic London, Paris, Geneva, Singapore, Taiwan, LIFFE 16.4% 1st Yes Sydney, Brisbane and Kansas City.
Today the Eurex 10.7% 1st Yes division provides agency and matched IPE 18.0% 1st No principal broking and other related services NYMEX 13.8% 1st No to a worldwide client base, which ranges CME 8.0% 1st Mix from banks, CTAs, hedge funds and major CBOT 3.1% 10th Mix industrial groups to individual private clients.
Source: Exchange publications In November 2002, the Group purchased Execution only Cleared or executed GNI Holdings Limited GNI, creating the Excludes equity options largest independent futures broker in the world.
The acquisition also resulted in the Group obtaining a strong niche in the We continue to capitalise on the transition to European CFD market.
electronic trading, which has taken place in many of the worlds largest markets by the We have developed the business through embedding of its technology into our existing the combination of our leading position on business processes, reducing overheads exchanges as illustrated in the table below accordingly.
In addition we have developed and growing customer order flow.
This has a large and rapidly growing electronic futures in turn allowed us to provide liquidity and business whereby our clients use the systems efficient order execution to the benefit of our themselves and we act in the role of order client base, and has attracted producers to router, clearer and customer service provider.
Our main aim in the short term will be the Man Financial has a strong position completion of the successful integration of across these exchanges, primarily due to GNI into Man Financial.
This will involve its institutional client base, which is attracted significant cost savings and simultaneously by specialist desks, experience, market we intend to maintain and grow their knowledge and by the lack of conflict with revenues in those areas we have decided proprietary trading operations.
The acquisition of GNI provides range and breadth of the Brokerage business Man Financial with critical mass in the area that gives Man Financial its edge.
The wide of equity derivatives, in particular the CFD geographic spread and broad customer base contract for differences and on-line Trader allows it to provide off-screen liquidity and markets, thus broadening the products we combine order flow.
It is this matching are able to offer.
of client orders from an internal pool of liquidity created by the interaction of Our strategy is to continue to focus our regional teams worldwide that is key on those aspects of our business that are to our strategy to maintain our increasingly less capital and cash intensive and allow strong position, especially in the financial us to be more flexible in our cost structure.
We see further opportunities to grow our business within this strategy.
Man Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 20 Chief Executives Strategic and Operating Review Operating review The majority of Man Financials profits Man Financial had another successful year continue to come from our institutional reporting record pre-tax profits, before franchises.
In the case of financial futures, goodwill amortisation and exceptional GNI energy and metals we saw significant integration costs, of 48.3 million, up 26% increases in our market shares during the on last year.
Included within this result, 4.6 year.
In particular, financial futures and its million relates to GNI post its acquisition and related product areas had another excellent 43.7 million in relation to the existing year.
Continued recruitment of producer business.
This result was achieved despite teams has led to a sharp increase in our an estimated negative impact of 6 million, execution volumes and the growing provision in comparison to last year, of further interest of liquidity via our global client base has rate declines in Europe and the US.
Man resulted in an increase in the matching of Financial continues to enjoy a broadly based client orders.
In energy, despite difficult contribution from its product lines during the credit conditions, which caused declines in year see chart below, with increased volumes in some of our products, we achieved contributions from all of our core institutional a substantial increase in our global profitability and retail franchises with the exception of aided by very volatile markets in the US and introductory brokerage in the US.
an additional producer team in London.
In our metals business growth in the year was a direct result of recruiting new producers worldwide Net commissions split by product line and through internal development of new year to March 2003 client business from our existing producers.
6 Our market share of LME business increased 5 from 5% to 8%.
Foreign exchange increased its contribution, as customer activity 4 remained high in volatile markets.
1 In our direct retail business profits have 3 grown strongly despite the decline in interest income.
Growth has largely been driven by 2 a surge in the number of new accounts.
1 Financial Futures: 46% 2002: 45% However, the retail introductory brokerage 2 Foreign Exchange: 13% 2002: 12% business has not seen such an increase in 3 Securities: 13% 2002: 6% new sales and therefore has not offset the 4 Energy: 12% 2002: 17% 5 Agricultural Products: 8% 2002: 10% decline in interest income.
6 Metals: 8% 2002: 10% Since its acquisition there has been no Source: Man database.
degradation in any of the major income streams of the GNI business.
Indeed, some areas, most notably financial futures, energy and metals have seen a sharp increase in their revenue streams since they were merged with existing Man Financial units.
At the time of acquiring GNI we announced that the acquisition was likely to generate cost savings of at least 8 million per annum.
Most of these cost savings have already been identified and by the time the integration of the business is complete the total cost savings are likely to achieve or exceed our target.
Stanley Fink Chief Executive Risk management is a critical component of Mans strong track record of achieving attractive risk-return characteristics for its fund investors.
