OPERATING REVIEW 14 Capita Our services Our strategy is: Capita provides white collar, professional support To focus on our three core stakeholders: services with a particular focus on business building value for shareholders, delivering service process outsourcing solutions.
Our broad excellence for customers and supporting and portfolio of services mirror the support functions creating opportunities for our employees.
of most typical organisations, including back To deliver high value essential services, whose ofce processes, frontline customer contact quality and efficiency can add fundamental value services and IT infrastructure and support.
We to our customers and those they serve.
use our skills to help organisations transform and modernise their services, adding value to them To focus on organic growth, generated by and their customers through improvements in the securing long-term recurring revenues from new cost and quality of their service infrastructure.
and existing customers, complemented by bolt-on acquisitions that adhere to our financial framework We have a range of service delivery models and core competencies.
ranging from on-site consultancy and single service support to multi-service outsourced To maintain and enhance our position at the solutions, delivered from our network of business forefront of the BPO market and hold leading or centres across the UK and Ireland.
We have also strong positions in all our market sectors.
recently added an off-shore business processing To remain in white collar outsourcing only and facility in India, providing a further alternative solely focussed on the UK and Ireland, where the service delivery model to meet the requirements size and quality of market opportunities remains of some private sector clients.
Our markets To maintain a good mix of business across all Across both the public and private sectors, our our target market segments of both the public customer base spans eight market segments: and private sectors.
local government, central government, education, To maintain our core discipline of selectivity when health, transport, insurance, life & pensions and pursuing major bid opportunities: ensuring we the private sector.
We are leaders or hold strong select bids that t our core competencies, leverage positions in all our market sectors see market benefit from our business centre infrastructure, share chart on page 05.
The majority of our require contained capital requirements unless there services are delivered through long-term or is a real value proposition for the Group, evergreen contracts, with over 300 strategic demonstrate a fair balance of risk and reward and customer partnerships and in excess of 20,000 acceptable contractual obligations, and have a customers.
denitive bid process and a clear set of decision Our business model and core objectives criteria set by customers with whom we can build a good relationship.
Capita has a proven, scalable business model, with high barriers to entry.
We have a leading To ensure that the Group remains responsive to market share in an active, growing market and customer and market requirements by creating an have built up considerable competitive environment of innovation and freedom to make advantages.
We seek to grow our business swift decisions, within a clear financial control both organically, securing new business from framework and at management structure.
existing and new clients, and by acquisition, To sustain our attention to detail across every purchasing small to medium sized businesses step of our value chain from: our bid selection that enhance or increase scope and scale of criteria to service delivery: detailed due diligence our existing services.
to risk mitigation: and from our monthly financial Our core objective is to continue to build Capita and business appraisals, to a constant bottom-up as a long-term, sustainable, growth business.
reforecasting of each of our businesses.
This is underpinned by our financial objective to To create a supportive, rewarding environment achieve double-digit compound growth in revenue in which our staff can develop their skills and and profit over the next five years.
We maintain a careers, fostering a can do attitude and high focus on cash generation, working capital establishing an enjoyable workplace.
management and securing increasing returns on capital.
We have outlined key measures of our progress in this years Chairmans statement page 02.
Our services delivered across Our markets Business process outsourcing Central goverment Customer services Local goverment Capita revenue split 2003 Administration and support Education % Human resources Insurance Information technology Life & pensions Property consultancy Health Finance and treasury Transport Central government 17% Local government 22% Management consultancy Private sector & other financial services Education 14% Private sector 47%
