Operational Review: Our brand portfolio Operating Capital: Operations Director Paul Davies reviews our brand portfolio with Creative Director Ric Blaxill 10 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com BUILDING A COMPLEMENTARY PORTFOLIO OF BRANDS Across the UK, our stations have attracted the best in local and national talent including Christian OConnell, What drives our business?
Neil Fox, Katy Hill, Gary Owen, Phil Upton, Debbie Mac At Capital, we have built a portfolio of commercial radio and David Jensen.
In addition, this year we have created stations with compelling content, local relevance and the successful network shows with celebrity guest DJs such best on and off-air creative talent.
Most importantly, our as Ronan Keating and Dannii Minogue.
listeners are at the centre of everything we do.
Our overall aim is to make the most engaging radio programming with We use our experience and creative thinking to drive our the best quality music-based content, to entertain the relationships with the record industry so we get the best local communities we serve.
In this section, we focus on exclusives and create new cross-industry initiatives, how we harness the best in creativity and talent, followed events and co-promotions that benefit all of our radio by an operational review of the performance of our brands.
A prime example of this is our radio brands over the year.
joint venture record company, Wildstar Records.
By getting involved at the heart of the record industry, not only have we Creativity our most important been able to keep abreast of new trends human resource and talent but we can also develop a Creativity is central to our business.
portfolio of acts that will add value It is about promoting fresh ideas and to the Group.
pushing the boundaries of what we do, finding new ways of solving old problems and creating new concepts Our audiences and formats to help the Group produce In the last published unmissable radio.
At Capital, we do this RAJAR figures for the by sharing best practice and ideas across quarter to September the Group.
2003, we saw a quarter on quarter increase in Radio is a dynamic and fast paced our listeners to 7.7 million environment, and to stay ahead for 30 years Capital nationally and an increase has ensured that we have the best in creative talent, of 871,000 hours.
In the a consistently refreshed approach to programming commercially attractive and strong relationships within the music and media 15-44 year old audience, industries.
While creativity runs through the Group we increased our number from the creation of innovative advertiser solutions of listeners to 5.5 million.
to our unique events and brand extensions this year This figure represents listening to our 20 analogue we formalised the importance of creativity to the stations and for the first time also includes digital Groups success by announcing the new position of audience figures for Xfm outside its London analogue Creative Director.
The role of Creative Director is the catalyst for driving new and innovative programming activities across the Group.
The Creative Director is also responsible for a Group-wide talent initiative to ensure our stations retain the most engaging presenters.
Number of Group listeners Group listening hours Million Million Q3 02 7.9 Q3 02 73.4 Q3 02 5.6 Q3 02 50.0 Q2 03 7.6 Q2 03 70.9 Q2 03 5.4 Q2 03 48.3 Q3 03 7.7 Q3 03 71.7 Q3 03 5.5 Q3 03 49.2 15 adults 15-44 year olds 15 adults 15-44 year olds Source: RAJAR adult data Source: RAJAR adult data Source: RAJAR adult data Source: RAJAR adult data Quarter 3, 2003 national figures Quarter 3, 2003 national figures Quarter 3, 2003 national figures Quarter 3, 2003 national figures Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 11 Operational Review: Our brand portfolio Our complementary portfolio in London Female biased Younger Older Male biased A portfolio approach to our brands Brand Review To drive the value of our business and to position Capital FM Network The Capital FM Network consists Capital Radio for growth, we recognise the need for of eight analogue and seven digital stations with five a complementary portfolio of radio stations in our million listeners in London, Scotland, South Wales, broadcasting areas.
We are able to offer stations with the West Midlands and the South East of England.
both mainstream and niche appeal.
This allows us to target additional listeners without directly competing Targeting 15-44 year olds, the network combines against ourselves because each station offers a unique compelling local output with innovative shared environment for the listener.
This structure allows us to programming and the best contemporary music.
The share content across the Group in the most effective way network benefits from the best shared content without and a key benefit is that we have a number of distinct losing its local distinction, and advertisers are able to radio stations attracting the 1544 year old audiences buy airtime across the network with the assurance of a that advertisers want to target and we are not dependent consistent approach to programming.
In 2003, 88% of the on any one station in any one city.
networks top 200 advertisers advertised on at least one of our other Capital FM network stations in addition to For example, in Manchester we now offer a broad Londons 95.8 Capital FM.
spectrum of choice for listeners with 105.4 Century FM and Capital Gold on analogue and Xfm, Choice FM, Life In the last RAJAR survey Quarter 3, 2003, reach and Capital Disney on digital.
was maintained across the network outside London.
FOX FM, Invicta FM, 103.2 Power FM, Red Dragon FM However, it is in London where we can best demonstrate and Southern FM have all performed well over the last the advantages of our complementary portfolio of radio 12 months, maintaining leadership in their respective brands and this is illustrated in the chart above.
markets over their nearest commercial competitors.
96.4 BRMB FM and Beat 106 are also closing the gap on the local commercial leaders, with the 96.4 BRMB FM breakfast show reclaiming the number one commercial position in Birmingham after replacement of the shows heritage presenter.
com In London, during a period of transition for 95.8 Capital Xfm Network Xfm has one analogue station in London FM, we saw decline in listener numbers.
However, the and 18 digital stations across the UK.
Targeting 15-34 year station continued to attract nearly 2.3 million listeners olds, it has 634,000 adult listeners nationally RAJAR RAJAR Quarter 3, 2003 the highest for any local Quarter 3, 2003.
The Xfm network broadcasts the best commercial station in London and across the UK.
in new music, playing indie guitar-based music, dance The 95.8 Capital FM breakfast show remains the biggest and Hip-Hop.
in commercial radio in London with 1.2 million listeners, representing a 45% lead over our nearest commercial In the last 12 months, Xfm is increasingly satisfying competitor.
However, share of listening hours decreased a growing audience, moving from a niche position in the last RAJAR period with our nearest competitor to a wider listening base.
The award winning station marginally overtaking 95.8 Capital FM.
is broadening its daytime music offering while providing evening programming to cater for specialist music tastes.
We believe that much of the recent loss of audience can In the RAJAR figures for Quarter 3, 2003, Xfm achieved be attributed to the changes our listeners experienced a 5% increase in reach to 634,000 listeners on analogue, at breakfast during the last year, as we prepared to digital, television and online platforms, and now accounts replace the shows long-standing presenter Chris Tarrant.
for a national share of 1.7% of 15-34 year old male listening.
During this period we trialed new presenters and so we fully expected to see some disruption during that time.
The stations marketing activities have focused on challenging non-listeners image of Xfm.
Its advertising We have also recognised the need for greater creative has encouraged non-listeners to trial the station, which and programming focus on 95.8 Capital FM, and have is now starting to convert into regular listening.
During taken a number of steps which we are confident will the year, a successful poster campaign ran to increase address and rectify the recent audience decline at awareness of Xfm, focusing on three key shows: weekday the station.
A new management team has already breakfast, weekday drive and Saturday afternoons.
implemented significant changes to the station and in September announced a new schedule, new presenters Xfm continues to take advantage of brand extension and innovative plans for the breakfast show, which will opportunities through CDs, online and events.
Xfm online take effect in spring 2004. has been an increasingly popular source of music and entertainment for listeners with an average of one million page impressions per month and 93,000 unique users.
Xfm is also growing its national audience and is being sold by our Commercial Division as a national proposition across a number of digital platforms.
Capital FM network Capital FM network Reach % Reach % 95.8 95.8 22 22 Heart 106 Heart 106.. 2 2 19 19 BRMB BRMB 28 28 Heart 100.
Heart 100.7 7 29 29 FOX FOX 38 38 Classic Classic 13 13 Invicta Invicta 41 41 Classic Classic 18 18 Xfm network Southern Southern 35 35 Number of listeners 000 Classic Classic 19 19 1998 283 P Power ower 26 26 1999 342 W Wave ave 21 21 2000 395 R Red Dragon ed Dragon 33 33 2001 443 R Real Radio eal Radio 24 24 2002 535 Beat Beat 17 17 Clyde 1 Clyde 1 23 23 20 200 03 3 634 Capital owned station Capital owned station Closest commercial competitor Closest commercial competitor Source: RAJAR quarter 3 adult 15 data Quarter 3, 2003 national figures Source: RAJAR adult 15 data Source: RAJAR adult 15 data Quarter 3, 2003 figures Quarter 3, 2003 figures Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 13 Operational Review: Our brand portfolio Capital Gold Network Targeting 35-54 year olds, the Choice FM In 2001, Capital Radio acquired a 19% stake Capital Gold network plays hits from the major icons of in Choice FM.
On 19 November 2003, subsequent to the pop and rock history and provides specialist shows across signing of our Financial Statements, we announced that many genres, from sixties classics, seventies Glam Rock, we will be acquiring the remaining 81% with effect from Soul and Motown through to the eighties and nineties.
Broadcasting on two analogue stations in London and a further six digital stations across England In the past year, the Capital Gold network has repositioned and Wales, Choice FM has 415,000 adult listeners.
its music output to appeal to active 35-54 year olds with a passion for music, and now encompasses a much broader Targeting 15-34 year olds, Choice FM is an urban contemporary mix of classic hits.
The Capital Gold network broadcasts music station featuring the best in Hip-Hop and R&B.
on AM frequencies in London, Birmingham, Kent, Programming is dynamic and vibrant, showcasing Sussex, Hampshire, South the best in music of black origin through specialist Wales and Manchester and shows including Garage, Reggae, Drum & Base, on digital, Sky, ntl and online Soul and Rap music.
In the first RAJAR results to include national In the last RAJAR survey Quarter 3, figures Quarter 3, 2003, the 2003, Choice FM achieved record number network saw an estimated of listeners and best ever results among increase of 380,000 listeners and its target audience, with 312,000 2.2 million additional hours and now 15-34 year old listeners and 2.3 million has a reach of 1.8 million listeners.
listening hours for that demographic.
While we already represent Choice FM in the In London, despite the disadvantage national advertising market, we hope to see added of being on the AM frequency, the station is an benefits from its national sales potential.
important player in the competitive London marketplace.
We believe the superior quality sound of digital radio presents significant opportunities for Capital Gold and so Our digital brands the format is an important part of our digital strategy.
In addition to our analogue brands, we also have two digital only stations.
Capital Disney, our joint venture Capital Gold has also successfully extended the brand with Disney, is a music-driven station for teens and through CDs and events.
It broadcasts on nine digital licences targeting formula with the Legends series of compilation CDs, 8-14 year olds.
Our second digital station, Life, is almost two million units have been sold to date with broadcast nationally, targeting 25-44 year olds with new releases planned for 2004. the biggest classic hits and the best music of today.
The inaugural Capital Gold Legends Awards ceremony held in London in September 2003 was attended by record company executives, our advertisers, listeners and employees.
The event, which was sponsored by Sony Super Audio CD and in aid of the NSPCC, was televised on VH1 and attended by a host of stars including Diana Ross, Sir Bob Geldof, Paul Young and Queens Roger Taylor.
com Case study: Century FM network Over the last year, we have been able to take a holistic Successfully delivering audience and revenue growth approach to the networks development including The Century FM case study demonstrates our ability programming, brand positioning and marketing changes.
to use our experience to successfully acquire and The first thing was to clearly define our target audience: manage a developing brand and to deliver audience 25-44 year old females.
Our target audience is at the and revenue growth.
centre of every decision we make at Century FM, from marketing to programming.
With this focus, we have Brand positioning The Century FM network broadcasts moved to a mainstream adult contemporary music on four analogue and eight digital licences with 1.8 million position, developed a new brand identity and supported adult listeners.
Targeting 25-44 year olds, the Century our on and off-air activities with the music you just have FM network provides adult contemporary music, big to sing along to advertising campaign.
This has enabled personalities and great conversation for people who are us to have the best music policy while retaining our grown up but have not grown old.
How we built the brand In 2000, we acquired Where we are today With coverage in some of three Century radio stations from Border Television.
the largest metropolitan areas in the UK outside of The stations were located in commercially attractive London including Manchester, Liverpool, Newcastle, metropolitan areas, but were plagued by poor and Nottingham, the Century FM network continues revenue performances and unattractive listener to grow both its audience and revenues, demonstrating profiles.
The on-air programming reflected the brands managements ability to acquire and develop a successful somewhat downmarket image and mainly male appeal.
By focusing on an adult contemporary positioning and targeting 25-44 year old females, Century Following our acquisition of the three stations and as FM has successfully achieved a record 1.8 million adult part of the Groups 2002 restructuring, we created the listeners and in the most recent RAJAR survey in the Century FM network, with the addition of our own adult quarter to September 2003, increased its share of listening contemporary station in Hampshire, Ocean FM.
We spent hours to 7.4% from last quarters 6.2%.
In the past time and effort getting to know the local markets in order 12 months, the network has also seen revenue growth to create the best possible programming to suit our on the back of audience gains.
In September 2003, to listeners needs.
support its music to sing along to campaign, Century FM released the Hairbrush Divas CD, which entered the It took time for us to create the right product offering compilation chart at number three and has already for the network.
Pre-conceived perceptions of what the sold over 100,000 copies.
Century brand had previously stood for were difficult to overcome and there was confusion about the stations Future plans for the network We believe that there new positioning.
Century had a small and loyal core listener are opportunities for the Century FM network to achieve base but, in highly competitive markets, we needed to further growth by attracting and retaining new listeners grow the number of listeners in order to derive value in our current markets and matching this with revenue from the acquisition.
To achieve this, we will continue to give our listeners a consistent station sound, maintain our strong programming and marketing teams and stay focused on our successful brand strategy.
com | 15 Operational Review: The London market Capital city: Keith Pringle 95.8 Capital FM Managing Director and Carl Lyons Marketing Director for the Capital FM network focus on our London leadership 16 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com MAINTAINING OUR BRAND LEADERSHIP management team, creating the new position of IN LONDON FOR 30 YEARS Managing Director for 95.8 Capital FM.
The new team has looked at every aspect of the station, from the In 1973, Capital Radio won the licence to become the programming, marketing, events, and presenters to UKs first commercial music radio station.
Now branded the sound of the station and how we connected with as 95.8 Capital FM, we have broadcast to Londoners our listeners.
Following this review, the new 95.8 team for 30 years.
Today, we maintain our market leadership has already implemented significant changes to the in London with a portfolio of four analogue stations: station and in September announced a new schedule, 95.8 Capital FM, Capital Gold, Xfm and Choice FM.
new presenters and confirmed Johnny Vaughan as our We also operate three digital stations: Century FM, new breakfast show presenter, starting in spring 2004.
Over the last 30 years, we These measures have brought increased audience focus, have seen an increase in competition in the capital new levels of creativity to the station and have resulted and consequently have evolved our strategy to stay in positive feedback from our listeners.
number one in the marketplace.
As a Group, we now reach 3.3 million listeners across London.
The overall result of these changes has been to unite the best of the stations 30 year heritage with new talent and programming innovations.
We now feel that we are Why is the London market important to us?
in a strong position to continue to win back listeners and London has the countrys most demanded demographic further distance ourselves from the competition.
group due to its affluence, with higher average household incomes than the rest of the UK.
As a result, advertisers pay a premium to advertise in this market.
Just under Our portfolio strategy in London 50% of the Groups revenues come from London, so its While 95.8 Capital FM is clearly important to important to us, our listeners and our advertisers that our business, it broadcasts as part of a we have the right stations with the best offerings.
Our strategy is to serve our listeners with a portfolio of complementary 95.8 Capital FM radio stations that allows us to With 2.3 million listeners, 95.8 Capital FM is Londons target specific lifestyles and leading commercial radio station with more listeners musical tastes.
This portfolio of than any of our commercial competitors.
Over the stations has enabled the Group to last year, we have faced an increasingly competitive maintain its leadership position in environment.
We recognised that to stay number one, London by combining the strength of we needed to innovate and develop to keep pace with 95.8 Capital FM with our other London the lifestyle of active Londoners.
brands: Xfm, Capital Gold and the soon to be acquired Choice FM.
Over the last 12 months we have made changes to 95.8 Capital FM in order to tackle this increased competition and declining audiences.
We also made changes to the More listeners than any of our commercial competitors Biggest commercial breakfast show in London Number of listeners 000 Number of listeners 000 95.8 2,269 95.8 1,235 Heart 1,948 Heart 851 Kiss 1,499 Kiss 789 Magic 1,415 Magic 690 Virgin 997 Virgin 660 Source: RAJAR adult 15 data Source: RAJAR adult 15 data Source: RAJAR adult 15 data Source: RAJAR adult 15 data Quarter 3, 2003 figures Quarter 3, 2003 figures Quarter 3, 2003 figures Quarter 3, 2003 figures Capital Radio plc | www.
