Carpetright plc Annual report and 6 accounts 2003 Operating review Carpetright is already the market UK and Southern Ireland leader in UK floor coverings and business has consistently grown market share since the business Results for the year commenced in 1988.
Carpetrights During the year we have continued success over the last 15 years has to benefit from the investment we been to focus on a single product have made in the last five years, offering and ensure that through in our stores, product, brand and providing the best range, the best infrastructure, which have been prices and the best service the and continue to be the key drivers offer is the best the customer can for the business.
We have now set ourselves The sales performance was a series of objectives for both the very different over the two halves, UK and Europe, which we will with the first showing strong like be working towards to make the for like sales growth and the business even better for the future.
second seeing a flat like for like sales performance but with better For the UK we have a number margin growth.
Whilst this sales of key objectives to achieve in growth in the second half was the next three years: below our original expectations it Stores achieve our target of very much reflected a slowing 410 right sized, right located market as a result of worsening stores and improving our consumer confidence, as well as portfolio mix by continuing to general economic uncertainty.
resite and relocate from A1 to Despite this we still outperformed bulky goods parks, as well as the market in the period and entry to new retail markets we remain confident that our New channels build our new market positioning and business business sales to 10% of our proposition will respond well to any total turnover market changes in the future.
Service improve on our already Sales for the year were good service quality to become 386.8 million, a 7.0% increase best in class and make this a on last year, with like for like sales source of competitive advantage 2.6% up on the previous year.
Product for carpet improve The year was 53 weeks against our price positioning and range the normal 52 and the extra week to maintain our first in market accounted for 1.7% of the sales position and expand into other increase.
The balance of the floor coverings to achieve a increase of 2.7% was due to an similar market leading position increase in selling space and we People nurture our store and finished the year with 351 stores central people and mould them against the 347 we started with.
to be our leaders for the future These stores trade from 3,411,000 Costs and infrastructure invest sq.
in our infrastructure to provide Gross margin increased by long-term benefit, improve 1.6 percentage points to 59.6% efficiency and remove waste for the year as a result of selling Here at our new Merton store we combine the For Europe our objective is to create more higher priced cut length carpets, breadth or range of floor coverings with prominent price and service messages which together a similar market-leading floor taking the five metre cutting process provide a compelling choice for the customer.
covering retailer in countries where in house at our new facility at Interior of our new Merton store we believe our proposition and Dolphin Park and the increase in business strengths can achieve average transaction value overall.
The We also benefited from the Europe commentary below details increased buying power we gained the short-term objectives for our with the acquisition in Europe.
recent acquisition in Holland and Costs continue to receive Belgium.
From our initial experience close management attention and of trading in Europe we believe we have made good progress on there is significant potential for our our variable costs during the year operations in the medium term.
with further cost saving initiatives commencing at the end of the first half as we saw the slowdown approaching.
Our costs to sales ratio increased by 1.0% for the year as whole, largely as a result of our investment in the new five metre cutting facility and doing more of the cuts ourselves.
Carpetright plc Annual report and 7 accounts 2003 The benefit of this investment is Stores 1999 277,722 included in the gross margin Our store portfolio continues to 2000 304,818 improvement.
Other variable costs develop and we actively seek 2001 322,917 are level as a percentage of sales opportunities in areas where for the year supported by our cost we remain under represented.
2002 361,500 saving programme in the second Over the year we added a net four 2003 386,839 half which offset the investments stores and some 64,000 sq.
ft. of we have made to improve our service space.
However, this masks a very UK and Southern Ireland proposition further.
We expect the active store programme with 30 sales 000 full benefit of some of our cost new stores opened and 26 closed, saving initiatives to come though many of these changes being 1999 50.6 in the current financial year.
This often involves 2000 53.9 Profit on ordinary activities moving from an A1 designated before taxation for the year was a park to a bulky goods designated 2001 57.2 record 61.0 million up 16.2% on park, providing us with a better 2002 58.0 last year: our margin at operating long-term site, a more favourable 2003 59.6 profit level achieving our target 15.0%.
rental and frequently some one off Earnings per share for the UK profits.
The business generated UK and Southern Ireland gross business rose 21.3% to 58.7p.
3.8 million of property profits in margin % the year with all but 1.5 million Market generated from the sale and 10 The UK retail floor coverings market relocation of our leasehold stores.
5 once again saw no growth in either Whilst this profit stream is difficult 0 value or meterage.
There still to forecast we expect such profits remains surplus capacity in the to continue in future years.
Our new store at Merton provides us with 5 some further coverage of South London manufacturing market with several We continue to see good returns 10 where we still have significant opportunities variations to the overall availability from the stores we opened to expand our portfolio in an area still dominated 15 15 4 98 15 4 99 15 4 00 15 4 01 15 4 02 15 4 03 by the independents.
We work closely reflecting the strong demand for New store at Merton Consumer confidence with our suppliers to match our our proposition.
product flow to the demand from We now trade from some 351 Trend Monthly Source: Datastream our customers.
We see these stores all of which are in the latest relationships as a critical Carpetright format, except for a component of our business as handful of stores that we are in the they enable us to continue to sell process of disposing of or where the best range of carpets at the we are awaiting a redevelopment.
best value prices in the market as This completes a four-year programme well as ensuring we are always at to bring all the stores into the latest the forefront of market changes format and prepares the business and demand patterns.
well for the next few years.
Despite seeing no overall market Despite our good coverage growth the total floor coverings we still believe that the 450 store market has continued to experience target is achievable and that remains a shift away from carpets towards our long-term aim for the business.
smooth floor coverings vinyl, However, having reviewed the laminate and wood which now market and opportunities, we have account for over 20% of the total set a three-year target of 410 stores market, up from 10% just five for the business.
This reflects our years ago.
Indications are that this realistic assessment of new trend will continue although not as developments as well as our focus quickly as in recent years and we on finding exactly the right store are positioning the business to for our proposition.
further benefit from any such Since the year-end we have move through the broadening of agreed to trial trading in four selected our product offering.
In this trial, which will last six months, we will trade in both Allders full line and home stores under the fascia Carpets at Allders, very much in line with the overall Allders store look and feel.
We believe this opportunity has significant potential for the business.
Carpetright plc Operating review continued Annual report and 8 accounts 2003 Growth on our new channels We have continued to develop our new channels to market as a complement to our store operations providing an even better service to the customer.
Our van fleet of 32 has this year moved into profit on a standalone basis.
We expect to grow the van business over the next few years.
The potential for us to serve the customer at home via an enquiry from either the internet or the phone is significant and all We accept that the purchase of carpet is our adverts now carry the message something which is traditionally done on a face to face basis where the product can be about this service.
These have touched and felt.
However the internet offer been especially successful.
provides both excellent communication and information, as well as a strong feed of leads Our insurance business also for our Carpetright at home van service.
continues to develop well and Internet enquiry page during the year we served and Advert promoting the Carpetright satisfied over 30,000 customers.
at home service This development has been On all our adverts we now also promote especially exciting for us as it our at home service where the customer can shop from the convenience of their home with has grown from what was virtually access to our breadth of range and value for at a standing start only two and money offer.
We are now trading from 32 vans with each equipped with a full range of over 2,000 samples Service of carpets, vinyls and laminates.
Our experienced, As well as our investment in friendly consultants provide a combination of product information, sales advice as well as the Carpetright at home service planning and estimation services to help the we continue to invest in our customer in their own home.
estimators, delivery service New Carpetright at home van and in-store processes.
This investment we have made in our warehouses has meant that even at peak times we can guarantee a consistently high level of service to our customers.
The programme to assess and train all our third party fitters is now well underway.
We believe we already operate a highly efficient fitting service but this programme will enable us to work with each fitter to achieve an even better standard.
We evaluate our service Our work with the Flooring Industry Training performance through a combination Association FITA takes our fitting service to an even higher level.
Each fitter is assessed of qualitative studies and quantitative against a series of criteria, which measures measures, which continue to not only workmanship and ability, but also ensures the fitter meets our requirements for show improvement year on year.
presentation standards and customer service.
The service element of our offer is The fitter is then either passed and becomes an approved fitter for Carpetright or if they Our estimators are critical to improving our important to our overall proposition require training we will provide this to bring service especially for customers changing floor and we believe the steps we them up to the standard we expect.
coverings across many rooms and spending on higher priced ranges.
These key people are taking, whilst adding some FITA logo are important to provide the customer with incremental cost, will provide confidence in our offer, service and product knowledge as well as ensuring we plan and significant benefits for the future.
estimate the carpet in the most efficient way to deliver the customers needs.
Estimators are often the longest serving and most experienced members of our team.
Estimator at work Carpetright plc Annual report and 9 accounts 2003 Product Our carpet offer is divided into two main categories, the roll stock business and the cut length business.
The roll stock business is at the heart of the business and we continue to provide excellent value roll stock ranges at very competitive prices for the customer available all year round.
Roll stock The cut length business has We hold over 40 ranges of roll stock in the also continued to progress well business and we provide a simple take away service to the customer who wants a good due to our 12 own brand labels product now and at a great price.
which included the launch this year of our exclusive Kosset Gold collection.
Kosset is one of the best known carpet brands in the UK and this addition to our range provides us with significant opportunity in the middle to higher end bracket.
Our own brand range, which is cut from our warehouse at Rainham, continues to account for over 99% of our Cut length business cut-length sales and we are confident The cut length business now sells from over 2,000 samples with a price range from under it provides the best offer at the 10 to close to 90 per metre for some of our best prices available in the market.
Our breadth of range and the combination of quick and reliable The investment made in the delivery times and very competitive prices Kosset Gold is our new exclusive brand for new Dolphin Park five metre provide a compelling offer to the customer.
Carpetright from one of the best known names cutting warehouse and our work in carpets of the last 40 years.
Apart from being some of the best product we have we also with the suppliers has enabled us offer an exclusive seven year wear guarantee to open up a whole new market in and nine year stain guarantee.
the larger width carpet offering.
Kosset Gold We now stock five metre wide carpets on over 22% of our ranges and expect this to grow over the next few years.
The sales of five metre wide carpets now account for 12% of our total cut length business.
Whilst some of this will be replacement for the customer who used to purchase the four metre wide carpet and accept a seam, we believe a good proportion of this to be incremental sales as we are the only carpet retailer to offer such a wide range.
We expect the benefits of We fulfil over 99% of our cut length business from our central warehouses which enables us this investment to contribute to the to satisfy orders quickly and efficiently.
Companys growth over the Our central warehouse at Rainham coming years and expect our productivity to improve as the volume of cuts increases.
Carpetright plc Operating review continued Annual report and 10 accounts 2003 We continue to strive for People in our stores improvements in all the products Our store teams are the most we offer.
This year we have worked important part of our operation and together with our manufacturers together with our people at the 12% to improve product quality and central support office provide the extend the guarantees.
We now human interface, which makes our also offer extended guarantees business tick.
We continue to when underlay is purchased at the invest and work with all our people same time as the carpet.
Hence to improve understanding, what was typically a 10 year communication and of course our warranty has now been extended skill set.
During the year we have to 14 providing our customers with continued to invest in training with greater peace of mind and, of all stores now training weekly on course, an even better end product key activities and this also provides in their homes.
a good communication time for Smooths vinyl, laminate and the team as a whole.
We now wood have become an increasingly produce an annual manifesto for important element of the UK floor all our people which identifies the 5 metre carpet sales coverings market.
In the laminate key objectives of the Company % of total sales metres market our sales have increased and the benefits that working for significantly in the last year as we Carpetright provides.
We believe Our new laminate range combines the core 2000 have benefited from the shift to that this helps us all work towards Carpetright proposition of breadth of offer, competitiveness of price and service to be the synthetic wooden style floors that the same goals and have clarity one stop shop for any customer who wishes have now become affordable.
Our goals are to purchase laminate.
The range is exclusive to Carpetright, offers a wide range of qualities Towards the end of the year we also discussed in detail at our annual and price points and the store teams are 2002 commenced the roll out of the conference where our managers knowledgeable about the product, the fitting, the accessories and underlays to make this Woodright concept across the have the opportunity to review the both look good on the day of fitting and last business.
The concept focuses on latest ranges with our suppliers as for the future.
sales of laminates, underlay and well as being provided with a full New laminate stands and display 2003 accessories as well as our stores update on developments and providing a wood and laminate objectives for the year.
We are stocking reward point of view we continue over 30 options of laminates at the to invest in performance based Higher over 30 per sq.
m. best prices in the market for the bonuses and incentives, which Mid 20 to 30 per sq.
m. quality offered and we believe the now cover all store people.
m. potential for this product will be We aim to provide a busy, fun and significant in the coming years.
well rewarded workplace for our store people and believe the Product profile continuity of teams is very important % of total sales by price band to our overall proposition.
Underlay is important to the wear of any new carpet and we now offer extended guarantees to all our customers who purchase our underlay at the same time as the carpet.
This provides both a better feel and appearance to the carpet as well as lengthening its life span.
Our new instore underlay guarantee Carpetright plc Annual report and 11 accounts 2003 Central support office European acquisition Our central support office in Rainham We completed our first move provides all the central functions into mainland Europe with the to the stores including warehousing, acquisition of the Carpetland systems, accounting and personnel.
business in Belgium, Holland and We have continued to invest in Luxembourg at the end of the first simplification of our processes and half.
This followed the four month systems to further improve our period where we operated a joint operations and make the stores venture where we had overall job easier.
We recognise the role of control.
The strategies for the the centre in our overall business acquisition were simple to but were keen to emphasise that create a dominant floor covering the centre should clearly support specialist in mainland European the stores and hence the change markets similar to our UK of name from head office to central proposition and so deliver good support office, allied to clear returns over a three to five year objectives in terms of how the period.
Holland and Belgium centre can help the customer.
were chosen on the basis of their We completed the investment proximity to the UK as well as the in the new Dolphin Park five similarities in culture and market to metre cutting centre early in the the operations we already understand.
financial year and this has now We see this acquisition very much been on stream since June 2002. as an opportunity to trial our The importance of this facility is proposition and ideas in a new significant as not only does it now overseas market in a low risk allow us to carry out five metre way with the upside potential storage, cutting and distribution being significant.
but also provides additional capacity Since we acquired the business and contingency support for the we have sought to overhaul main cutting centre at Rainham.
radically all parts of the business.
We have invested in people We effectively bought 92 retail by bringing in further specialists stores selling a variety of floor in Planning and IT as well as coverings, decoration, lighting and developing teams for our new soft furnishings that had not initiatives.
We have now formed received the benefit of investment a UK Operating Committee that for a number of years.
However consists of the Carpetright plc in terms of portfolio of stores, the Executive Directors and the heads sites were as good as we have of department across the UK in the UK.
At the same time we business.
This has improved also acquired 12 freehold and communication across functions three long leasehold properties.
and enabled the various departments to better understand the implication of their actions Our new five metre cutting warehouse opened and we think this team will form the in June 2002 and not only allows the business bedrock for our plans going forward.
to provide an extended offer of five metre carpets but also provides capacity for years to come.
As the business grows and we The facility holds over 3,000 rolls of carpet at have more stores and other any time, works 24 hours and seven days per week at peak times and is one of the most central functions to direct, the modern and efficient operations in the world.
importance of risk management Dolphin Park warehouse and how we manage our resources becomes ever more important.
Our Operating Committee also acts as an important filter to ensure that all elements of our business, be it our customers, stores, suppliers, people or services, are properly co-ordinated and any risks associated carefully monitored and controlled.
Carpetright plc Operating review continued Annual report and 12 accounts 2003 Whilst we acquired a profitable The initial reaction to our proposition 3-year plan trading business we have looked in Holland is encouraging and and milestones for the acquisition on the acquisition as effectively confirms our pre acquisition research First 6 months buying points of entry into the of the market similarities between to April 2003 mainland Europe market with the Holland and the UK.
In Belgium Rationalise and restructure the offices, supply chain and processes.
purchase price largely underwritten trading has been slower and Introduce the Carpetright brand, product, by the inherent value of the whilst floor covering sales have buying power, and marketing skills to concentrate on creating a floor covering freeholds we acquired.
We could increased we still have an overall specialist.
have continued to trade the shortfall after the removal of New incentive schemes for staff.
Re-format and re-merchandise stores, business in its current format but the decoration products.
have sought to accelerate the Having now experienced the Begin drive to capture market share.
pace of change to create a floor Belgian market for over six months covering specialist closer to our though we believe we have successful UK model.
a strategy to enable us to create Next12months The first six months objectives a long-term sustainable market to April 2004 were largely completed on target.
Refine offer to consumer in local markets.
Monitor results of store updates During this period we have seen The result of all the disruption and plan rollout.
the dcor products removed, the as well as the slower trade in Evaluate portfolio for the next five years.
Continue to trade more efficiently to grow resulting space being put to use Belgium than expected has created market share.
for further floor covering offers an adjusted operating loss before Benefit from the better sourcing to improve Our new modernised store at Scheut has gross margin.
whilst all the stores have been exceptional costs and goodwill benefited from a complete refit including the Following the restructuring, reduce costs.
The marketing amortisation for the period of fascia, outside decoration, inside relay and fitting out including new ranges and offer.
approach and customer proposition ownership of 2.9 million plus net We have also made better use of the window has been refocused with a interest payable of 1.0 million as space and promotions in the store.
New modernised store at Scheut simplification of offer, improved well as one off exceptional costs Next18 months range and reduction in prices to of 5.4 million relating to the office to October 2005 Complete store update programme.
create the best offer and prices in restructure and asset write offs Rebalance the store portfolio for the future.
the market in line with our successful resulting from the programme to Benefit from market share drive and achieve significant returns on investment.
At the same time we update stores.
Whilst in combination have invested significantly in the these costs are slightly higher than staff within the stores.
We have our original expectations when we closed two stores, one in Belgium set down our three year milestone and one in Holland.
Finally, we plan, we are confident that with have also closed the local cutting the restructuring accelerated we centre with product either being now have a firm base from which Inside our stores we have taken the best of delivered direct or via the UK to build and are working hard the UK operation and combined this offer with based cutting centre in Rainham.
towards our plans for the current some of the excellent merchandising in products such as laminate to make a powerful display Trading has been in line financial year.
Many of these ideas and with our expectations in Holland developments are now also being taken back to the UK market.
with the business performing New modernised store at Scheut broadly in line with last year at sales level, although sales of floor covering products have increased significantly.
This has offset the sales lost from the removal of the decoration products as well as the price investment we have made.
Carpetright plc Annual report and 13 accounts 2003 Group summary Outlook In our UK and Southern Ireland Finance business we expect to open The business remains in a strong a total of 22 stores and close financial position on the back of six during the year.
Our trial in good cash flows from the UK the Allders stores started on and Southern Ireland operations, 7 June and we believe we have improvements in working capital opened with a good offer and for our acquired European proposition for the customer.
business as well as a prudent Our Woodright rollout is now well approach to debt and treasury.
underway and up to the end of The dividend proposed for the June we have completed the year of 37.0p will be covered introduction of the new laminate pre exceptional and goodwill as range to over 100 stores, the adjusted for minority interests balance to be complete within 1.54 times and the intention the next eight weeks.
remains that dividend cover will Whilst we anticipate that the be maintained at approximately market conditions will remain 1.5 times in future years.
tough in the UK overall we remain confident that our business can Calendar and investor update continue to grow and that in more We will be providing additional difficult trading times our business market updates for the business will become stronger for the future.
during the course of this financial For our European business year in line with best practice trade remains slightly behind for a retail business of our size.
expectations due to a difficult In addition to providing a trading economic environment and with update at our Annual General the remnants of the disruption still Meeting announcement we will impacting us overall, even as we provide a further update in early begin to settle down to more autumn and hence pre the end of normal operations.
However we the first half, as well as updates remain confident though that the post the January sale and post steps we are taking will provide us Easter, the latter being in line with the potential for a significant the update we provided for business opportunity for the future.
The full details of the calendar are shown on page 52.
In addition we have further updated our internet site www.
uk to provide additional company information including our results, press releases and other company details, which we believe are an important way of keeping our investors informed.
