With this unprecedented growth in Autoimmune disease and Celltechs pipeline, and reflecting the inflammatory disorders potential for many of these products to Celltech has an innovative portfolio of treat multiple diseases, Celltech is treatments addressing a range of significantly upgrading the capabilities in autoimmune and inflammatory disorders, its development organisation to support with a particular focus on rheumatoid fast, flexible and high-quality arthritis RA and inflammatory bowel development of its portfolio of products.
The treatment of these As part of this initiative, all development disorders has been transformed during activities are now unified under a single the last five years through the Dr M G Lee Research and Development Director global leadership to facilitate optimal use introduction of the tumour necrosis of skills and expertise located at its factor alpha TNF inhibitor class of DEVELOPMENT Slough, Rochester and Cambridge sites, products, which have demonstrated a During 2003, a number of important and timely and high-quality life cycle profound impact on both the signs and development milestones were achieved in management plans for both the symptoms and progression of disease.
the progression of Celltechs innovative marketed product portfolio and pipeline Sales of TNF inhibitors continue to grow product pipeline.
significantly, increasing from $2.1 billion new products into Phase I clinical in 2002 to $3.3 billion in 2003, driven by development during 2003, with a further In order to fully support its growing both increased penetration in the RA and product transitioned into preclinical early-stage pipeline, Celltech has reIBD markets, along with strong initial development.
In addition, Celltech balanced its R&D resources during 2003, uptake in new indications such as achieved a critical milestone for CDP870, with the closure of its Seattle novel psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and its most advanced pipeline product, with target discovery facility, which was ankylosing spondylitis.
This market is the initiation of a large Phase III involved in very early-stage research.
The expected to show significant further programme in Crohns disease in late cost savings from this closure, along with growth, providing a highly attractive 2003 to support a regulatory submission a continuation of its strategy of commercial opportunity for Celltechs planned for 2005.
Crohns disease partnering selected products, will assist TNF inhibitor, CDP870.
Notwithstanding represents a large commercial Celltech in fully realising the value from this market transformation, a significant opportunity for Celltech and will be the its new product pipeline, supporting its number of patients are unresponsive to first indication for which Celltech will goal of becoming a global biotechnology treatment with TNF inhibitors, seek regulatory approval for CDP870.
presenting a further major market 6 Celltech Annual Report 2003 Operational Review Research and Development opportunity for biological agents with inflammatory disease, many of Celltechs CDP870, Celltech informed Pfizer that it alternative mechanisms of action, such as pipeline approaches have potential utility was unwilling to accept a reduced return Celltechs interleukin-1 IL-1 inhibitor, in other inflammatory conditions, such as from this product, and in December CDP484.
multiple sclerosis MS and psoriasis.
2003 Pfizer notified Celltech that it Future plans for these pipeline products would return all rights to the product.
As Whilst biological agents have had a will incorporate parallel development in required by the termination provisions of dramatic impact on the treatment of multiple diseases, supported by the its agreement, Pfizer has returned all inflammatory diseases, the requirement ongoing enhancements to its information relating to CDP870 to for parenteral administration is a development organisation.
Celltech, and will continue to provide drawback for many patients.
Whilst certain transitional services until these protein targets such as TNF are not CDP870 certolizumab pegol can be assimilated by Celltech.
Under the tractable to small molecule approaches, Celltech anticipates that CDP870, its provisions of the agreement, Pfizers sole alternative intervention points in their most advanced pipeline product using its residual interest in CDP870 is the signalling pathways may provide a proprietary PEGylated antibody fragment retention of its 20 percent share of net longer-term opportunity for small technology, will be a competitive entrant profits from sales in Crohns disease.
molecule approaches to treat into the fast-growing TNF inhibitor inflammatory diseases.
The research on market, in particular through a Following Celltechs announcement that targets in these pathways is highly convenient four-weekly subcutaneous it would regain all rights to CDP870, it competitive: Celltechs goal is to achieve dosing regimen.
CDP870 is being received a large number of unsolicited high levels of efficacy whilst eliminating developed as a new treatment for RA licensing approaches from molecule-associated toxicities.
Building and Crohns disease, until recently under pharmaceutical and biotechnology on the clinical experience in this area, a collaboration with Pharmacia.
companies and is currently in discussions and drawing on its biology and Following Pfizers acquisition of with a view to securing a new pharmacology expertise, Celltechs highly Pharmacia, completed in April 2003, collaboration partner for CDP870 during focused small molecule discovery Pfizer conducted an internal portfolio the second quarter of 2004. activities have yielded two promising review and, during the last quarter of anti-inflammatory candidates, CDP323 2003, notified Celltech that it wished to In Crohns disease, Celltech initiated a large and CDP146.
renegotiate the financial terms of the international Phase III programme during collaboration it had inherited from December 2003, termed the PRECISE Due to significant commonality in Pharmacia.
In the light of the substantial PEGylated antibody fRagment Evaluation mechanisms of autoimmune and commercial opportunity represented by in Crohn's dIsease: Safety and Efficacy Celltechs leading pipeline product, CDP870, uses its proprietary PEGylated antibody fragment technology, and entered pivotal Phase III trials in Crohns disease during 2003 following promising Phase II trials.
Our extensive clinical and commercial development capabilities are critical to maximising value from our innovative research pipeline.
We provide input from the commercial business at an early stage and throughout the life of a project to ensure that R&D programmes are optimised to deliver a compelling commercial profile.
This programme, in which opted to continue treatment with various life cycle management initiatives, over 1300 patients will be treated across CDP870 in a long-term safety open-label in particular improvements in the delivery two studies, will assess the ability of extension study.
CDP870 to induce and maintain a clinical response in patients with moderate to A further trial required for registration, CDP484 severe active Crohns disease, and will designed to assess the impact of CDP870 The biology of inflammatory disease is incorporate patient stratification based on disease progression over a 12-month complex and may be driven by different upon baseline C-reactive protein CRP period using x-ray measures of joint mediators in different patients.
It is levels in its primary endpoints.
Crohns erosion, had been due to start during the believed that two of the key mediators in disease will be the first regulatory second half of 2003.
Following the many inflammatory diseases are TNF, submission for CDP870, planned for termination of the collaboration with which Celltech is addressing through the 2005.
Celltech intends to market Pfizer, this third trial has been delayed development of CDP870, and IL-1.
CDP870 in Crohn's disease using its and is now scheduled to commence in Indeed, the lack of response of certain gastroenterology sales force in the US the second half of 2004, facilitating a patients to treatment with TNF and specialist sales forces in Europe.
2006 regulatory filing in this indication, inhibitors may indicate a different driver following the anticipated approval in for their disease.
In preclinical models of In RA, Pharmacia initiated two Phase III Crohns disease.
Celltech is currently disease, inhibitors of IL-1 have trials, both designed to assess the impact finalising plans for this study, which it is demonstrated potent anti-inflammatory of CDP870 on signs and symptoms of anticipated will be conducted by a new effects, along with greater impact on the disease, using the American College of collaboration partner.
slowing of joint erosion than TNF Rheumatology scoring system, over a sixinhibitors.
The first of these studies, The reversion of CDP870 rights to in which CDP870 is being assessed in Celltech removes the limitations within CDP484, a PEGylated fragment of a combination with methotrexate MTX in the Pharmacia agreement and provides humanised antibody targeting IL-1, was patients with an inadequate response to an opportunity to fully exploit new entered into a Phase I II study in RA MTX, will conclude in late March 2004. indications, such as psoriasis and patients during 2003.
This study is The second of these studies, in which psoriatic arthritis.
Celltech is currently designed to assess the safety of CDP870 is being assessed as assessing the optimal development route ascending doses of CDP484, and will also monotherapy, is due to conclude early in and plans to initiate Phase II studies in provide information on the impact of the the second half of 2004.
The majority of new indications during the next 12 treatment on signs and symptoms of patients from these two studies have months.
Celltech has also initiated disease, using the standard American 8 Celltech Annual Report 2003 Operational Review Development Programmes Development activities have been unified under a single global leadership to facilitate optimal use of skills and expertise located at Slough, Cambridge and Rochester sites.
College of Rheumatology scoring system.
first Phase II study with CDP323, in RA p38 MAPK.
The lead compound, This study is expected to conclude in late patients, is planned to start during the CDP146, was entered into preclinical 2004. second half of 2004.
A competitor development during 2003 and is planned antibody approach has demonstrated to enter Phase I human safety trials CDP323 encouraging efficacy in MS, and Celltech during the second half of 2004, with the A key component of the inflammatory is currently evaluating the optimum first Phase II study, in RA patients, cascade in many inflammatory conditions development strategy for further scheduled to start during 2005. is the recruitment of leukocytes to areas indications.
of inflammation, such as the synovial Oncology lining in RA and the gut in IBD.
This CDP146 Oncology remains an area of significant trafficking is facilitated by the adhesion CDP146 is an orally available small unmet medical need, with current of integrins expressed on the surface of molecule inhibitor of p38 mitogen treatments often effective only in leukocytes to selectins expressed on the activated protein kinase p38 MAPK, a subgroups of patients, and often having vascular lining.
Consequently, blocking key component of the biological cascade dose-limiting toxicities.
Current research this interaction may represent an that leads to production of prorecognises the need for more effective attractive point of intervention in the inflammatory mediators such as TNF, treatments with better therapeutic inflammatory cascade.
It is believed that windows, and the need for combinations inhibitors of p38 MAPK will have potent of treatments to provide the best survival CDP323 is a small molecule inhibitor of anti-inflammatory effects in a number of outcomes.
The unique specificity of 4 integrins that are over-expressed in different diseases.
Consequently this is an antibodies for a particular disease target patients suffering from RA and IBD, area of high interest in the has heightened interest in this area of and has demonstrated potent pharmaceutical industry.
Likewise, an increasing anti-inflammatory activity in preclinical many programmes has been the understanding of tumour-signalling models of disease.
generation of compounds that are pathways that control growth or death of sufficiently selective to avoid inhibition of tumours has opened a new avenue of Celltech is currently completing Phase I the many other kinases in the human research for small molecule approaches.
studies in healthy volunteers designed to body, and any consequent adverse Celltech is currently building up its assess the safety and bioavailability of effects.
Through its focused small oncology portfolio, with a particular focus CDP323.
This study also incorporates molecule research efforts, Celltech has on targeted cell ablation using antibodies biochemical measurements to provide generated a series of compounds with as targeting agents, and on small molecule evidence of pharmacological activity.
The both high potency and high selectivity for programmes to inhibit tumour growth.
We have recently met a number of important development milestones and believe it is critical to continually upgrade our organisation to support high-quality product development and life cycle management plans.
Our strengthened project, global regulatory and clinical management teams and new processes, are good examples of this.
CMC-544 targets a growth factor receptor involved Inherited storage disorder ISD in tumour angiogenesis.
During 2003, Through its collaboration with Wyeth, products CDP791 entered a Phase I study in encompassing antibodies to selectively Through its acquisition of Oxford patients with a range of advanced solid deliver a potent cytotoxic drug, GlycoSciences OGS, Celltech obtained tumours who have failed to respond to calicheamicin, to tumours, Celltech is two oral substrate reduction therapies standard treatments.
This collaboration SRT for the treatment of certain ISDs.
designed to confirm the safety of has already yielded the FDA approved ascending doses of CDP791 and to drug, Mylotarg, a treatment for acute The most advanced of these, Zavesca provide evidence of pharmacological myeloid leukaemia.
CMC-544 utilises the miglustat, was approved during 2003 in same technology platform as Mylotarg, activity through the use of MRI to the US and Israel for the treatment of and comprises a humanised monoclonal determine the effect on blood flow mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher disease antibody targeting CD22, a protein into tumours.
Results from this study for patients where enzyme replacement are expected during the second half expressed on the surface of malignant therapy is not a therapeutic option, of 2004.
following approval in Europe during 2002.
Zavesca has been launched in the Wyeth is currently undertaking a Phase I US and Europe by Celltechs marketing CDP860 study in patients with Non-Hodgkins partner, Actelion, and in Israel by Teva.
Following successful completion of a lymphoma.
Under the terms of Celltechs small Phase II proof-of-concept study to collaboration, Wyeth funds the majority The second-generation product, CDP923, determine whether CDP860 was able to of clinical trial costs for CMC-544, with is currently undergoing a Phase I multiple increase the permeability of tumours in Celltech receiving a royalty on future dose study in healthy volunteers, designed patients with colorectal and ovarian sales of the product if successfully to confirm preclinical findings that this cancer, Celltech indicated its intention to commercialised.
seek partners for this programme, due to compound lacks the gastrointestinal side the complexity of development alongside effects seen with Zavesca.
Celltech is CDP791 existing chemotherapeutic regimens.
currently evaluating the optimum Antibodies blocking the activity of Following initial discussions with a development route for this compound for certain growth factors have number of potential collaborators, the entry into pivotal Phase II studies.
demonstrated utility in the treatment of relatively limited amount of information solid tumours alongside existing generated around this mechanistic chemotherapeutic regimens, through the approach has not elicited any firm RESEARCH process of angiogenesis inhibition.
The productivity of Celltechs research interest, consequently this programme CDP791 is a high affinity PEGylated organisation is evidenced by the entry of has been terminated.
There are no costs fragment of a humanised antibody that associated with this termination.
four novel compounds into clinical 10 Celltech Annual Report 2003 Operational Review Development Programmes development during 2003.
This high level Disease area focus of solid tumours.
Celltechs emerging of innovation and productivity is a result Celltech typically pursues multiple oncology pipeline includes approaches to of the increased resources available to therapeutic approaches in its chosen intervene in tumour signalling pathways, the research organisation since 2000. disease areas.
This balanced portfolio using both small molecule and antibody Celltechs research organisation continues approach is designed to both optimise technologies to slow or stop tumour to develop its state-of-the-art technology the chances of successfully bringing growth, and targeted cell ablation platforms, and to focus on specific drug product to market in each disease area, approaches, where antibodies are used classes and therapeutic areas where the and to address different medical needs or to direct toxins selectively to tumours, or Company is able to build expertise patient groups.
In autoimmune and in certain cases exhibit a direct antirapidly.
Celltechs research capability has inflammatory diseases, Celltech continues tumour effect.
Both elements have been been further enhanced by the acquisition to focus on new approaches for the strengthened during 2003 as a result of of OGS during 2003, which has treatment of RA and IBD, in particular the OGS acquisition.
substantially expanded the Companys seeking more selective oncology efforts.
immunosuppression and better delivery Celltechs potential approaches for each characteristics than current treatments.
disease area are shown in the table below.
The combined benefits of having both Celltech is also expanding its expertise antibody and small molecule expertise into new disease areas, in particular Antibody research allow Celltech to select the optimal through its growing research pipeline in Celltechs unique range of antibody therapeutic approach for each disease MS, encompassing both small molecule technologies enables it to address target, for example through novel drug and antibody approaches, and into other challenging disease targets in a number conjugation technologies utilising a serious inflammatory conditions such as of different ways.
In its OX40 receptor combination of chemistry and biology lupus and psoriasis.
Celltech is building on its existing demonstrated in preclinical models the expertise in RA and IBD to expand into Celltech continues to build its oncology ability of an antibody-targeted toxin new areas of high unmet medical need, resources as an additional strong area of approach, using a toxin and linker including MS, lupus and psoriasis.
In this focus, and is developing a range of platform licensed from Seattle Genetics, regard, Celltechs research organisation approaches, primarily addressing the to selectively deplete memory T cells works closely with its commercial group significant unmet need in the treatment responsible for perpetuation of to ensure the target profile of all Antibody-based approaches Small molecule approaches products selected to enter development is commercially attractive.
Celltech is Inflammatory and autoimmune diseases Rheumatoid arthritis CDP870, CDP484, CDP323, CDP146 strengthening the interface between its other anti-cytokine research and development groups to Inflammatory bowel diseaseCDP870, CDP323 ensure that products are fully optimised other anti-cytokine at an early stage, thereby minimising Psoriasis CDP870, CDP484 Chemokine inhibitors pipeline attrition.
Celltech continues to Multiple sclerosis OX40R, CD40L, CDP323 invest in its technology platforms, anti-cytokine Lupus OX40R, CD40L, BCR ensuring that it is equipped to compete with the best in the industry, evidenced Oncology by collaborations with global Targeted cell ablation CMC-544 Wyeth, biotechnology leaders such as Amgen cell surface markers and Biogen Idec who have been Tumour signalling pathways Kinase Inhibitors attracted to Celltechs unique strengths.
Other approaches CSF-1, CDP791 KDR kinase J&J Celltech is committed to driving its advanced antibody technology platforms and microbial manufacturing system to address challenging disease targets.
This approach provides competitive cost structures and flexibility in product scheduling for our innovative pipeline products.
This highly novel research milestones were met in this in stringent selection criteria to establish and innovative approach utilises the programme during 2003. efficacy and to reduce the likelihood of unique properties of Celltechs antibody unexpected toxicities or metabolic issues.
fragment platform to modify the Celltechs acquisition of OGS has brought In the area of autoimmune diseases and characteristics of traditional antibody a number of validated antibody-based inflammatory disorders, Celltechs small therapies, and is likely to have application oncology research programmes, which molecule research is highly in relapsing-remitting diseases, such as Celltech expects to accelerate through complementary to its antibody pipeline, MS.
This programme represents a new the application of its SLAM technology.
through research into alternative steps in avenue of research for antibody-targeted The majority of these programmes are disease pathways and different toxin approaches, which have previously based upon cell surface markers of mechanisms.
been utilised successfully in oncology specific tumour types, and therefore fit applications.
well with Celltechs advanced drug An example of this approach is the p38 conjugation technologies.
MAPK programme, an upstream target in Celltech recently entered into a the pathway that activates cytokine collaboration with Biogen Idec on CD40 Celltech continues to invest in the synthesis with potential application in a ligand CD40L, a key regulator of development of its antibody technology broad range of diseases.
platforms, in particular through the combination of focus in kinase chemistry, Celltech will apply its antibody combination of its chemistry and biology an extensive in-house compound library technology platforms to generate skills to develop advanced conjugation and advanced technologies, including antibody-based therapeutics with novel technologies to further improve the structure-based drug design and x-ray properties to address this challenging manufacturing profile of these agents, crystallography, Celltech has identified a target.
Products arising from this and the use of antibodies as targeted series of potent and highly selective collaboration are likely to have utility in a delivery agents.
wide range of autoimmune conditions, including lupus and MS. Small molecule research During 2003, Celltech entered its initial Celltech has a highly focused small candidate, CDP146, into preclinical In its collaboration with Amgen Inc, molecule research effort, which along development, and is now assessing a which aims to identify novel treatments with its access to state-of-the-art series of backup and follow-up for osteoporosis through inhibition of the technologies, enables it to compete fully compounds, with the intention of protein sclerostin, Celltechs Selected in its chosen areas with the large-scale entering a further candidate into Lymphocyte Antibody Method SLAM operations employed by pharmaceutical development during 2004.
Celltech also technology has enabled it to generate companies.
Celltechs efforts focus on routinely assesses whether its large high-affinity antibodies to this highly discovering best-in-class drugs against molecule disease targets are tractable to conserved target.
A number of key well-characterised targets, and building small molecule approaches.
12 Celltech Annual Report 2003 Operational Review Research Programmes Celltech's research organisation continues to develop its state-of-the art technology platforms, and to focus on specific drug classes and therapeutic areas to build expertise rapidly.
In oncology, Celltech has rapidly built A further example of Celltechs target expertise by focusing on a number of acquisition strategy was the purchase of different targets along a limited number OGS during 2003.
Through this of disease pathways.
Drugs acting on acquisition, Celltech gained access to six these targets will typically have a profound high-quality oncology research effect on tumour growth or death, either programmes, supported by a skilled team as single agents or to enhance responses of 40 research staff.
In addition, Celltech when used in combination with existing is continuing to exploit OGS extensive therapies, and these programmes proteomics database, which in frequently have synergies with Celltechs combination with Celltechs bioinformatics anti-inflammatory disease targets.
As with expertise is expected to yield further the antibody pipeline, Celltechs small disease targets.
Reflecting Celltechs molecule oncology research efforts have success in accessing validated disease been substantially strengthened as a result targets on commercially attractive terms, of its acquisition of OGS and the addition and its desire to redirect investment from of a number of highly skilled scientists.
very early-stage research to its growing development pipeline, Celltech announced Disease target the closure of its novel target discovery Celltech has historically gained access to facility in Seattle in late 2003. antibody targets through multiple sources, including literature targets, In its small molecule pipeline, Celltech academic collaborations, corporate continues to pursue literature targets collaborations and its in-house research.
with a high degree of validation to Celltech believes that its unique generate best-in-class drugs.
Celltechs combination of antibody technologies, biology and pharmacology expertise, along with its ability to support along with its access to focused in-house development and commercialisation of chemical libraries and ultra-highproducts arising from target throughput screening technologies, collaborations, makes it an attractive provide novel insights into these disease collaboration partner for target-rich targets that enable it to rapidly generate companies, evidenced by its recent highly competitive small molecule collaboration with Biogen Idec.
The OGS acquisition has allowed us to integrate a number of skilled scientists into our existing oncology organisation.
Several of the OGS antibody-based oncology programmes have already benefited from using our SLAM technology, speeding up the discovery process.
