COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS Celltech has made significant progress during the last year in reinforcing and focusing its commercial operations to maximise the returns from both its existing and future marketed products.
In parallel, Celltechs commercial organisation continues to work closely with key international opinion leaders and its R&D organisation to shape the Mrs I Saunders development of CDP870 and its other Global Commercial Director development programmes.
In its US operations, Celltech has focused the efforts of its primary care operations behind its key promoted brands, in particular through targeted promotion and selected life cycle management Sales of major products 2003 2002 Change initiatives designed to grow sales of these m m % products.
Celltechs US specialist sales Key promoted brands: force, established during 2002, continues Tussionex US 68.1 65.6 4 to forge important links with Metadate CD US 20.2 16.6 22 gastroenterologists through the Delsym US 18.0 13.1 37 promotion of Dipentum, which has Dipentum US Europe 17.1 4.4 289 performed well during 2003.
Celltechs US commercial operations were further Perenterol Germany 7.8 7.8 0 strengthened by the recent appointment Coracten UK 7.1 6.3 13 of Daniel Greenleaf as President.
Total key promoted brands 138.3 113.8 22 During 2003 Celltech has transformed its Other major products: European commercial operations to focus Zaroxolyn US 25.3 26.2 -3 on specialist prescribers through a substantial restructuring.
This Generic methylphenidate US Europe 9.8 11.7 -16 restructuring has been designed to Ionamin US 5.0 5.1 -2 upgrade the organisations skills to Semprex-D US 4.0 2.4 67 ensure that it is fully prepared for the Pediapred US 1.4 3.6 -61 launch of CDP870, initially in Crohns Other products US Europe 75.4 81.4 -7 disease, along with further important Total other products 120.9 130.4 -7 near-term European product launches such as Equasym XL and Xyrem.
These changes, along with continued Total product sales 259.2 244.2 6 improvements to the supporting Effect of exchange differences - 8.7 infrastructure, provide Celltech with the As reported 259.2 252.9 2 key components of a world-class At constant 2003 exchange rates.
14 Celltech Annual Report 2003 Operational Review Global Commercial Celltech aims to commercialise its own pipeline products, targeting  audiences accessed through highly skilled sales forces.
specialist-focused organisation in the US and continued to perform well during establishing its Rochester site as a and Europe.
Tussionex, Celltechs 12-hour manufacturing source for Dipentum, hydrocodone-based anti-tussive, which is expected to enhance the Due to the variability of foreign increased its market share by 11 percent profitability of this product.
currencies, all comparisons of sales and total prescriptions by 8 percent, with performance have been made at sales increasing by 4 percent to 68.1 Metadate CD Equasym XL constant exchange rates.
Metadate CD, Celltechs once-daily financial comparisons have been made at methylphenidate product sold in the US, historic exchange rates.
Delsym, Celltechs 12-hour OTC antiperformed strongly during 2003.
In tussive, responded well to life cycle particular, the launch of 10mg and 30mg The commercial operations performed management initiatives and proactive dosage strengths for this product during strongly, with product sales increasing by brand and channel management, with 2003 led to performance above 6 percent to 259.2 million 2002: sales increasing by 37 percent to 18.0 expectations, with sales of Metadate CD 244.2 million.
Sales of Celltechs key million 2002: 13.1 million.
increasing by 22 percent to 20.2 million promoted brands increased by 22 percent 2002: 16.6 million.
to 138.3 million 2002: 113.8 million, Celltechs cough cold franchise is reflecting the focusing of sales and expected to be further strengthened by In Europe, Celltech expects to launch marketing resources behind these the implementation of further life cycle Equasym XL, the European trade name products, and the impact of certain life management initiatives, including the for its once-daily methylphenidate cycle management activities, detailed anticipated launch of Codeprex, the first product, in its first territories during 2004. below.
Sales of other products declined 12-hour codeine-based anti-tussive, by 7 percent to 120.9 million 2002: during the second half of 2004 in time Other products 130.4 million, reflecting the cessation of for the 2004 5 cough cold season.
Sales of Zaroxolyn metolazone, a diuretic certain co-promotion agreements, which sold in the US for the treatment of reduced revenues by approximately 5.5 Dipentum oedema associated with congestive heart million versus 2002.
European sales were Dipentum, a treatment for ulcerative failure, declined to 25.3 million 2002: also affected by the introduction of colitis acquired from Pharmacia during 26.2 million.
Following the expiry of pharmacy rebates in Germany during 2002, performed well in all territories patent protection for Zaroxolyn during 2003.
The performance of key individual during its first full year under Celltechs 2002, Celltech pre-emptively launched its products is detailed below.
ownership, with sales increasing to 17.1 own generic metolazone during the million 2002: 4.4 million from second half of 2003 and, during Cough cold franchise September 2002.
Celltech is currently December 2003, the US FDA approved Celltechs US cough cold franchise undertaking life cycle management three generic competitor metolazone remains an important source of revenues initiatives with Dipentum, in addition to products.
Due to the introduction of We have successfully streamlined the French organisation and now have a skilled team concentrating on our specialist products.
The team is already building strong relationships with the gastroenterology community, focusing on brands such as Dipentum in preparation for the launch of CDP870 in Crohn's disease.
generic competition to Zaroxolyn, the ability to establish links with key Celltech no longer promotes this product prescribing physicians and opinion and anticipates a rapid decline in sales leaders, well ahead of the launch of during 2004.
Celltechs acquisition of rights to Dipentum during 2002 is an important Perenterol, an antidiarrhoeal sold in component of this strategy, enabling Germany, maintained sales at 7.8 Celltech to build strong relationships with million 2002: 7.8 million despite the the gastroenterology community ahead effect of pharmacy rebates of 6 percent of the launch of CDP870 in Crohns introduced during 2003. disease.
Coracten, a branded generic version of A restructuring of the UK, French and which is planned to be launched in nifedipine sold in the UK, continued to German sales forces was completed Europe during 2004, and further respond to Celltechs strong promotional during 2003, and is due to be completed specialist product opportunities.
To add effort, with sales increasing by 13 percent in the first half of 2004 in the Spanish further critical mass to the European to 7.1 million 2002: 6.3 million.
This complements the organisation, Celltech in-licensed the specialist gastrointestinal sales force in European rights to Xyrem, a treatment Celltech: an emerging force in the US and the specialist Nordic for narcolepsy, from Orphan Medical specialist marketing operations, established during 2002.
Under the terms of the During the last year, Celltech has part of the restructuring process, Celltech licensing agreement, Celltech made an continued to streamline its commercial recruited 47 highly skilled new sales upfront payment to Orphan Medical of operations, with the goals of maximising representatives, in addition to $2.5 million and will make further the sales and profitability of the existing strengthening senior management in milestone payments of up to $13 million marketed portfolio, and preparing for the certain countries.
The result of this dependent upon achieving certain successful launch of its own pipeline restructuring was a net reduction of 153 development and sales-based milestones, products, in particular CDP870 in Crohns representatives to 140, with associated in addition to paying a royalty on sales.
An overview of the key initiatives exceptional charges in 2003 of 9.0 The application for approval to market is provided below.
The new specialist sales forces this product in Europe has been filed in have substantial expertise gained in large the first quarter of 2004 with an Meeting the CDP870 challenge: pharmaceutical or biotechnology anticipated launch for the product enhancing sales force capabilities companies.
Celltech aims to commercialise its own pipeline products where these are Celltech intends to use its existing To ensure Celltechs sales forces are able marketed to  European sites as hubs to expand into to perform significantly above industry audiences that can be effectively further territories in order to provide effectiveness and efficiency, Celltech has accessed through small, highly skilled, comprehensive pan-European specialist implemented a comprehensive sales force sales forces.
During 2004, Celltech expects effectiveness programme, which will accelerated the transition of its European to establish satellite sales forces in the employ continuous benchmarking and organisation away from its previous Netherlands and Portugal, with further training along with state-of-the-art primary care focus towards a world-class expansion planned during 2005. support systems, including customer specialist-focused organisation.
This The establishment of specialist sales relationship management CRM and transition provides substantial benefits to forces has allowed Celltech to focus sales force automation activities.
Celltech by having all key resources and resources behind key specialist brands In parallel with the transitioning of sales capabilities in one place, and providing such as Dipentum and Equasym XL, force capabilities, Celltech has continued 16 Celltech Annual Report 2003 Operational Review Global Commercial The establishment of specialist sales forces has allowed Celltech to focus resources behind specialist brands such as Equaysm XL, which is planned to be launched in Europe during 2004. to strengthen its commercial expected to be further enhanced during Supply chain management development and local marketing 2004 by the introduction of Codeprex, During 2003, Celltech has further functions.
In the near-term these groups which will be the only 12-hour codeinestreamlined its supply chain, resulting in are preparing for the launch of CDP870 based prescription product, the closure of its satellite manufacturing in Crohns disease, including opinion complementing the existing Tussionex facility in Santa Ana.
Celltechs facility at leader development, market research and franchise.
Celltech received an approvable Rochester is being established as a major scientific congress activities.
These teams letter from the FDA for Codeprex during manufacturing hub for the Groups nonalso work closely with the R&D 2002 and has now provided responses to biological products.
During 2003, organisations to assist in the the FDA.
It is anticipated that Codeprex Rochester has been established as a development of an attractive commercial will be launched in time for the 2004 5 manufacturing source for Metadate CD profile for all pipeline products, fully cough cold season.
Equasym XL, and work is currently supported by relevant clinical and health ongoing to establish Rochester as a economic data generated in the In the ADHD franchise, Celltech has source for Dipentum.
The individuals in introduced 10mg and 30mg dose these groups have extensive experience strengths for Metadate CD to Celltechs biological products are gained in large pharmaceutical complement the existing 20mg currently produced using a network of companies through the successful strength, and has also changed the third party manufacturers as part of its international launches of major products.
These measures global supply chain.
In order to meet the have assisted in growing revenues from needs of the future pipeline, Rochester is Maximising product revenues: this product in an extremely competitive now able to perform quality testing of product life cycle management market.
Celltechs biological products prior to In order to maximise the value of its their release and will increasingly become existing product portfolio, Celltech is Further life cycle management initiatives involved in the packaging and undertaking a number of life cycle are underway for Tussionex and distribution of these products.
To support management initiatives designed to grow Dipentum and are anticipated to future needs, a new global supply chain its key brands.
stimulate further growth in these system is being implemented, enabling products in the future.
Reflecting Celltech to handle the sophisticated In the cough cold franchise, the Celltechs commitment to effective life distribution arrangements for both introduction of a new bottle size and a cycle management, all development current and future products.
paediatric product for Delsym has proved activities for both marketed and pipeline extremely successful in growing the products are now managed under a brand.
The cough cold franchise is single global structure.
The US commercial business is maximising sales and profitability of key promoted brands through targeted promotion and life cycle management programmes for Tussionex, Delsym and Dipentum.
It is also playing an important role in the global sales force effectiveness programme, aiming to ensure Celltech's sales forces perform significantly above industry effectiveness.
