operational review During 2003, we have achieved further scale through both significant organic growth and key acquisitions.
These factors have enabled us to strengthen our overall position in Europe.
2255 55 0033 Further growth in subscribers, Acquisitions Successful launch of dynamic customers and conversion The acquisition of eXhilaration in packaging During the year we have made significant November 2002, which sells experience Dynamic packaging was launched, initially steps to improve the usability and products, has enhanced our lifestyle in the UK, in November 2002.
It enables reliability of the website, we have product offering and provides a platform customers, in the same shopping basket, extensively deepened our product offering for future expansion.
to build a holiday which suits their and feel we have provided customers with individual needs and receive an integrated In March 2003, we made our largest UK a lifestyle proposition which they can use invoice for those products.
When this acquisition to date, holiday autos, which on a daily basis to deliver inspiration and service was launched, only ights and has signicantly increased the size and great value solutions.
These enhancements hotels were available for packaging.
The acquisition was have contributed towards the significant During 2003, the product range available immediately earnings enhancing and has increases in the number of subscribers to within dynamic packaging was extended substantially contributed to the increase our newsletters and the conversion of to include car hire, insurance and airport in average Group margins to 18.3% at those subscribers to customers.
Dynamic packaging has mainly 30 September 2003, up from 13.5% at 30 Subscribers have increased to over featured scheduled airlines and city hotels, September 2002.
In addition to providing 7.7 million at 30 September 2003, which therefore enabling customers to create further scale in those countries where represents an increase over last year of traditional city break holidays.
com already has ofces and 20%, whilst customers have increased by extending the Groups product portfolio, We will expand dynamic packaging further 116% to 2.8 million at 30 September 2003, car hire is a logical extension to the in 2004 by adding resort destinations to up from 1.3 million at 30 September 2002.
the offering, extending the ights product Our improved conversion rate has been to charter ights and including restaurants During September 2003, we bought back supported by our increased level of and entertainments.
In July 2003, we Sol Melis share of our Spanish joint customer satisfaction.
In a recent online increased charter ight availability venture which will allow us to fully survey conducted during September through the normal ight engine by an integrate our businesses in Spain and more 2003, of those who responded, over 50% agreement with Avro, the UKs leading aggressively target the Spanish market, of visitors to the site have made a charter ight-only operator.
This provided thereby delivering further scale in one of purchase from lastminute.
com, 79% access to approximately 2 million charter Europes fastest growing online markets.
of users are returning visitors and 93% seats for customers to the all important of visitors are satisfied with the summer sun destinations.
Dynamic packaging was successfully launched in the French and Italian 4 lastminute.
com plc annual report 2003 2200 66 0033 businesses during July 2003 the start of theatre, food and sports events produced into the lastminute.
We the key Summer quarter and October on a weekly monthly basis.
We are successfully integrated the UK travel 2003 respectively and will be launched in pleased that our efforts were recognised businesses Travelselect.
com, Destination Germany and Spain before the end of the by the industry at the 2003 New Media Group and lastminute.
com in September 2003 calendar year.
Age Awards where our weekly e-mail 2002 which delivered synergies newsletter won the Best Consumer throughout the 2003 financial year.
We During Quarter 4 dynamic packaging Products and Services award.
have also restructured and integrated delivered total TTV of 7.0 million, Travelprice.
com in France and Italy, which representing approximately 15% of the During October 2003, lastminute.
com won was completed as planned by the end of lastminute UK url TTV.
Sales for the new the CNET Networks e-commerce Site of February 2003. financial year for this product have started the Year award, beating Tesco.
com and strongly with October delivering 3.4 easyjet.
The award was given to the These actions have led to a stronger million of TTV with growth in all three candidate who was considered to have operational cost base which is far more operating markets.
best harnessed the Internet to provide efficient, provides a much better customer easy-to-use buying experiences that have and supplier experience and is more Brand development led to increased turnover, improved exible to adapt to future growth.
com distribution and or saved costs.
We are As already mentioned, the plans for the delighted with the strength of the brand Investment for efficiencies and cost integration of holiday autos are now well and the progress that we have made thus savings integration of acquisitions established and we have started to far.
com remains Europes We have taken major steps forward during implement them from the beginning of number one online travel and leisure the year to improve the efficiency of the new financial year.
retailer in terms of total sales and site operations and to streamline and integrate usage.
During October 2003 the cost base.
com was again placed number of functions, including UK data Number One in the top 10 UK online travel entry and certain post sales customer agency sites by Hitwise.
support functions, in particular ights ticketing.
These outsourcing arrangements We continue to adapt our marketing have enabled us to move a proportion of strategy to an ever more demanding the cost base from a xed cost to a market and to tailor the 7.7 million variable cost model.
In the UK our weekly newsletter is additionally In addition, we have achieved synergy tailored to 3 further discrete editions savings by integrating recent acquisitions 55 77 0033 lastminute.
com plc annual report 2003 5 2244 77 0033 We have also signicantly expanded the Ongoing development of supplier Travel extras accommodation choice and availability to relationships and product availability During the year we announced an customers through a strategic commercial We provide an extensive range of travel exclusive deal with BCP, the UKs leading agreement with Sol Meli, which gives and leisure products to customers.
Product airport parking booking service, which access to Sol Melis hotel search engine, offerings comprise hotels, holidays both allows UK customers booking travel together with exclusive Sol Meli pre-packaged and dynamically packaged, online to save money on airport parking.
In November 2003, we most modes of transport including ights, In addition, we announced a partnership announced an agreement with WorldRes, cars, trains, ferries and cruise and leisure with Mondial to provide customers with a leading hotel booking engine for activities including music, sports, events, cost effective travel insurance.
These relationships theatre, restaurants and food, experiences Lifestyle provide an even more comprehensive and resort tours and gifts: In 2003, in the UK, over 300,000 customers range of hotel product to our customers.
Lifestyle We aim to provide access to over 45,000 lastminute.
com has preferred partnership products represent over 20% of items sold properties around the world in the short agreements with major airlines giving during the year and are counter cyclical term by further connectivity projects.
access to multimarket product at with the travel business quiet periods of Holidays preferential rates.
We have increased our Winter and Spring and provide strong We have continued to strengthen and charter ight supply during the year and customer repeat metrics.
deepen our relationships with major tour have signed deals with two charter ight We also established a partnership with operators thus generating more exclusive GDS suppliers which provides customers Theatrenow, the independent information product at special rates.
with even more ight availability.
service for theatre-goers and late Car hire Hotels availability online ticket channel.
This The acquisition of holiday autos During the third quarter of 2003 we partnership creates a new independent signicantly enhanced car hire supply.
As centralised our internal hotel contracting ticket sale and marketing channel for a leading car hire brand in Europe, holiday function.
This transition from locally producers and theatre venues and has autos has strong historic relationships resourced and contracted hotel supply to been key to the success of our theatre with international and local major car one controlled from one focal point in newsletter.
In 2003, holiday autos London has enabled the Group to build Strategic brand partnerships secured an exclusive relationship with stronger relationships with suppliers and We have continued to develop strategic Alamo National for car rental supply in to pass on an even greater selection of brand partnerships.
We have sourced a North America.
good value, high quality offers to number of white label arrangements lastminute.
com plc annual report 2003 We are building a service which customers can use everyday.
We see our lifestyle offering restaurant bookings, entertainment, experiences as giving us competitive advantage.
During 2004 we will be introducing these products into our successful dynamic packaging functionality to enable customers to book a complete package for a single purchase price.
88 88 0033 2200 88 0033 TTV per item sold Gross profit 000s EBITDA 000s engine technology for use by third parties, Comparative 2002 gures Comparative 2002 gures Comparative 2002 gures exclusive marketing partnership deals and the supply of products to new technology Total 2002: 33,264 Total 2002: 7,326 Total 2003: 100,947 Total 2003: 15,030 platform providers.
We became the online travel partner for Tesco.
com, the UKs largest online retailer, Voyages Auchan, a leading French supermarket retailer and developed a combined microsite with the le weekend website.
Customers on these sites are offered exciting lastminute.
com travel offers which are promoted by the respective websites homepages and online customer communications.
com plc entered into an Q1 03 Q2 03 Q3 03 Q4 03 agreement during 2003 with Egg, Europes largest online bank, to provide a monthly Registered subscribers New unique customers Items sold online newsletter to Eggs UK customers Comparative 2002 gures Comparative 2002 gures Comparative 2002 gures containing a full range of lifestyle offers Total 2002: 741,441 Total 2002: 1,719,362 and some exclusive lastminute.
com offers Total 2003: 1,485,402 Total 2003: 3,473,595 for ights, holidays, hotels, dynamic packaging, entertainment and restaurants.
coms range of products including travel deals, theatre tickets and retail products, was offered to users via Sky Active.
In addition we entered into a partnership with video mobile phone company 3 whereby lastminute.
com offers products on Third Generation mobile services using product images.
We have introduced new booking processes in every category and implemented new connectivity projects with airlines, hoteliers and tour operators to ensure we supply the most comprehensive offering.
88 99 0033 Back ofce automation has remained a which recognises a customer from their Technological developments key deliverable for the technical group telephone number and automatically Throughout the year we have continued to with Oracle Financials now installed populates the customer service agents invest signicantly in technology in order across the majority of the Groups screen with the customers details.
This to deliver new products to customers, lastminute.
It will be will bring further efficiencies and improve website reliability, responsiveness implemented into the holiday autos reductions to customer service costs and and search capabilities, generate country ofces during 2004. enhance the customer experience.
efficiencies through the streamlining and elimination of back ofce processes and to In 2003 our site responsiveness improved We continue to invest in technology in ensure that we have scalable technology in signicantly and from June 2003 we order to maintain a leading edge website place to support significant future growth.
delivered European industry leading and to further drive down operating costs.
performance of under 4 second response We rmly believe that technology has In the first half of the year we introduced a times.
This performance is sustainable helped maintain our leading position and new ights engine and technology to with the anticipated TTV growth and has continues to provide significant support the dynamic packaging product.
been achieved by rstly implementing competitive advantage.
The ights engine delivered faster caching technology and secondly performance and operational booking Senior management installing IBM Blade server hardware, efficiencies.
During the third quarter, a The Group has grown substantially over which run at nearly twice the speed of the new shopping basket, ebasket was the past 3 years.
During the year the previous hardware.
We believe we now launched which makes integration and Board has put in place an effective have the technology platforms that will connection to other websites via XML management structure to manage this and support TTV of over 1 billion.
BCP car parking future growth.
In addition to the highly and Mondial travel insurance were We have also developed a proprietary experienced senior management team subsequently integrated into the new search tool that has halved search times.
who joined us as part of the holiday autos shopping basket.
The guided navigation tool was acquisition, we have also further introduced for holiday searches which broadened our management skill set by The new shopping basket is fully enables holidays to be clustered and recruiting a number of experienced senior integrated into the back ofce operational, allows customers to drill down on managers.
During 2003 the following key financial, and customer services systems geographic regions and property appointments were made: which means that the completion of information until they nd a holiday in the transactions is quicker, signicantly Chip Steinmetz was appointed Chief country that they desire.
enhancing the customer experience and Technology officer in January 2003. new products and acquisitions can be In October 2003, we launched a call preChip has held senior technical positions more easily integrated into the website.
qualication tool for customer services, in a number of leading global 8 lastminute.
com plc annual report 2003 11 1100 0033 organisations including American On behalf of the Board we would like to Airlines, UBS, Barclays Capital and most welcome them to lastminute.
com and recently Walt Disney Internet Group wish them every success with the Group.
where he was Head of Technology.
Andrew Windsor was appointed Group Commercial Director in February 2003.
Andrew is well respected in the travel industry and has extensive travel Brent Hoberman knowledge gained over many years Chief Executive officer with Thomas Cook.
Liane Hornsey was appointed Group Director of Human Resources during September 2003.
Liane has extensive HR experience, most recently two Martha Lane Fox years at NTL where she overhauled Group Managing Director the recruitment and reward process.
20 November 2003 In November, we announced the appointment of Pierre Paperon as French Managing Director.
Pierre has significant senior management experience in France.
He was previously Managing Director of the internet division of Danone, one of the largest food manufacturers in Europe, where he had responsibility for the development of their e-commerce brands and strategy growing sales from nil to 2 billion over 3 years.
Before Danone, Pierre managed Alta Vista Europe, the fifth largest Internet company in Europe.
