The Carat brand was established in 1988 and was the first independent media specialist in Europe.
The launch of its new identity in early 2004 reects the many changes that the company has undergone in that time and the wide range of services we can now offer clients.
Nigel Morris, Carat International Operating Review Media Baltics.
In Asia, clients that have extended up any opportunities that may arise.
In 2003, Aegis Medias business base was their business with Carat included BMW, Added-value services and account extensions broadened through converting new business Pernod Ricard, Cadbury and Beiersdorf.
now represent 30% of all revenue across opportunities and expanding clients into Europe and development of this area is additional markets.
Total net new business Carat continued to invest in its range ensuring that Carat is well placed to address billings of $728 million was down from the of consultancy and management support the needs of clients in an increasingly previous year but effectively demonstrates services with particular focus on consumer complex media environment.
the lumpy nature of new business progress insight and advertising effectiveness where a single large international client win capabilities.
It also established Deep Blue, Carat Europe maintained its leading market can have an inordinate impact on the yeara multi-discipline team to deliver position and RECMA, the independent end new business total.
innovation in communication, culture, agency evaluation service, rated Carat with trends insight and strategic services.
its highest Vitality score, representing Carat overall business and product health For Carat, the most significant business Carat Europe ahead of any other media agency.
RECMAs wins, won for the most part through strong Although the market in Europe was static tools and service evaluation also gave international and local co-ordination, were throughout 2003, representing in real Carat the highest score in Germany, France Arla, Bel, JTI, Diesel, EMI, Epson and terms the third year of advertising and the UK, the only markets they have Thomas Cook.
recession, Carat Europe made progress in evaluated to date.
International clients now account for 50% Looking at the individual markets, 2003 of Carats billings and it now has 40 clients It was a quiet year for new business with was particularly successful for a in three or more markets.
Existing clients few major reviews, but Carat Europe won rejuvenated Nordic region, where a new were extended into more than 50 $271 million of net new business mainly strong management was particularly additional countries with Europe leading through local success and medium sized successful in new business, with $100m the way.
Included in these were EMI, Diesel European consolidation.
It is expected that additional business including Svenske Spei and Cadbury Schweppes in Europe while new business reviews will increase in 2004 and Regions Skane.
international clients Disney, Henkel and and the strong reputation of Carat in Europe Kelloggs expanded into Russia and the will ensure that it is well positioned to take Despite a soft market, Germany made good progress in all areas and in particular in product development, where new data planning and specialist retail communication services were successfully launched.
Notable new business wins included Warsteiner, Freiol, Bertelsmann, Kia and Dualles System.
In Italy, Carat was nominated Media Agency of the Year for the second year in a row and won a number of new clients including Peroni, BMW, Cadbury Schweppes and Total Fina Elf.
Carat Spain also won the equivalent Agency of the Year award in its country with Gloablia, Direct Line and INSS as major client wins.
Carat France had a mixed year with a Jerry Buhlmann, CEO Aegis Media Europe number of client losses as a result of consolidations.
It worked hard to replace 12 Nigel Morris, Carat International 13 Over the next 10 years China is expected to become one of the worlds largest consumer markets.
Carat is pioneering media in China, nding new and creative ways to help clients connect with 1.3 billion consumers.
David Liu, Carat Asia-Pacific this lost business with SIG, Physcience, Carat USA experienced expansion in many A total of $181 million of net new business Persee Medica, Pathe and Lindt amongst of its specialist areas with growth at Carat has been won with significant clients added the largest wins of the year.
Strong new Direct direct marketing, Carat Trade in most countries.
These include Pernod local management and our dominant corporate trade and barter and Carat Ricard, KSF and Yi Li in China, Taiwan Lottery market share position in this market will Multicultural media services.
A number and President Foods in Taiwan, AAG in India, help drive growth through 2004. of new services introduced during the year.
IAG, P&O Cruises and NSW Lottery in This includes Carat Sponsorship Solutions, Australia, Courts in Singapore, Carlsberg in Carat UK also faced a challenging market which provides a range of consulting Malaysia, ShoeMart in The Philippines, Sangi with a higher than average churn as a services in the fields of sports, and KFC in Japan and Honda in Thailand.
result of account consolidations and client entertainment and social cause marketing.
New clients included Carat Affiliates also began trading in 2003, Carats interests in China took another step Legal and General, Teletext and Channel 5. providing customised media services, forward when, in October, it acquired a media buying and analytics to the 25% holding in Qin Jia Yuan QJY.
QJY In November, Aegis appointed a new head of emerging independent creative agency produces popular TV dramas and is one its European media operations.
This responds to the trend among of the top independent programme Buhlmanns excellent track record in working large multinational clients to mandate syndication companies in China.
This will with major European clients, combined with small, hot creative agencies to provide benefit clients by providing access to the improving market conditions, are likely to them with non-traditional and fresh prime time advertising slots associated help Aegis Medias operations progress creative media approaches.
with this type of programme and the further in Europe in 2004. ability to reach consumers across the vast In Latin America, Carat has refocused its number of TV stations throughout China.
Carat Americas business priorities on the most attractive 2003 was a year of continued growth, regional opportunities.
Consequently The performance of Carat in Asia Pacific is innovation and expansion for Carat Carat Brazil opened in Sao Paulo in 2003 receiving wide-ranging recognition.
RECMA, Americas with net new business billings offering media consultancy services and the media rating agency ranked Carat of $276 million.
winning new business with Volvo and second out of 10 multinational media Bristol Myers.
Carat made good progress in specialists in the region based on its In North America, Carat saw solid growth Mexico and Argentina despite recent Vitality measure, an index of new from new blue chip client relationships such turmoil in the latter.
Argentine Telecom and business wins and losses, staff growth as Schick, MTV, XM Radio, VH1 and Marriot.
Aerolineas Argentinas and the Mexican and the dynamism of the organisation.
In addition, existing clients such as Pfizer, operation of Turner Networks have become Virtually all business won by Carat Bank One and Viacom extended the scope clients.
Further progress has been made in is achieved independently of creative of their business.
Carat is now ranked fifth the Caribbean and Central American arenas agencies unlike most of its competition.
largest among buyers of national television via affiliate relationships.
Carat Chile found In Australia, Carat was awarded Agency time and magazine media in the USA and it tough to break even in a market where of the Year for the third successive year.
sixth overall in media services.
individual client budgets are small by It is particularly noteworthy that in Carat international standards and Carat China is now ranked fourth in that country Venezuela suffered from continued and has shown a significant increase in economic upheaval.
During 2003, therefore, business in 2003 as the local economy it was decided that the future prospects continues to burgeon.
did not justify the continued losses and so both operations were closed.
Vizeum Aegis Media launched its Vizeum network Carat Asia-Pacific on 16th June 2003.
It purpose was to drive Despite the SARS epidemic and the Aegis overall market share and profit unsettled global socio-political climate 2003 growth by providing additional choice to was a year of outstanding performance for advertisers seeking an independent media Carat in Asia Pacific.
After just seven years agency partner against a background of a of operation it now has 28 operations in 12 consolidating market.
At the same time the countries where 850 staff service a wide new network is able to leverage the scale range of local, regional and global clients.
These include a Eric Drancourt & During the year the management team was number shared services and internal Martyn Rattle CEO & COO of Vizeum strengthened in order to manage the rapidly resources including media negotiation, expanding growth in business.
14 Thomas Wong, CEO Carat China David Liu, CEO Carat, Asia-Pacific 15 Airport advertising is a highly effective medium especially for multi-national advertisers that want to reach the exclusive business traveller audience.
As well as being the worlds biggest outdoor specialist Posterscope grew to become the UKs leading airport advertising specialist in 2003.
Annie Rickard, CEO Posterscope Worldwide Operating Review Implementing a buy and build strategy, growing market, especially for multilaunch a second interactive brand which Vizeum now comprises 21 offices in 17 national advertisers who want to reach the will share Carat Interactives resources but countries and has won $150 million in new exclusive business traveler audience.
will be externally facing to provide business in its first six months of additional opportunities for growth.
Posterscope continues to invest in further operation.
New additions to the client Market Research expansion and in its technical tools to portfolio included Asics, Five, Kia, Piper tailor its planning and buying capability for The Synovate brand was launched on 6th Heidsieck and Timberland.
Its goal was to reinvent clients to an increasing number of significantly the network won its first international markets.
research by creating a global market international account at the start of 2004 research organisation with an approach with the award of Japan Tobacco Carat Interactive unlike that of its competitors.
The strategy Internationals media business.
The Groups interactive business made good deliberately avoided forming a large, central progress in 2003 with growing revenues, Vizeums brand positioning is encapsulated organisation.
Instead it has centres of robust margins and stable management in in its philosophy of Pioneering the Art of excellence across the world.
This enables it all the key markets.
A new global Connection which indicates both its desire to form teams that can deliver against the management structure was put in place to challenge the conventions of the market requirements of global, regional and with a President of Interactive Worldwide and to seek more effective ways to bond national clients and to recruit and retain appointed to provide a focus for the further clients brands with consumers.
With key talent wherever they are.
Vizeums European network now in place, Synovate now has fully-owned operations plans to extend into the United States and Consumer usage of interactive and digital in 81 cities in 46 countries.
In the field of Asia Pacific are now in process.
Indeed survey-based custom research it is in the research commissioned by Yahoo and Carat Posterscope worlds top five, an important position as Interactive demonstrated that time spent The Groups outdoor media specialist, most major clients retain a roster of three on the Internet now exceeds that with any Posterscope, continued to benefit from or four preferred suppliers.
the growth of out-of-home advertising.
other media for US teens and young Synovate made good progress in 2003. adults.
Digital medias ability to reach The medium has been resurgent as it Despite the effects of SARS in Asia Pacific, consumers in a highly targeted way means has the ability to stand out against the the War in Iraq and a soft European that brands can market to consumers on a proliferation of broadcast and print media.
market, Synovate increased reported one-to-one basis, creating a dialogue and New forms of outdoor sites, including giant revenues by 8.0% to 218.9 million.
video screens, make a huge impact for building strong customer loyalty.
Organic revenue growth, excluding the advertisers, especially in busy city sites.
As a full service interactive agency, Carat impact of currencies, was 5.9% over twice Interactive has the ability to provide clients Posterscope continued to expand its reach the market rate of growth.
with a full range of highly specialised tools in 2003 in order to be able to provide Throughout the year, Synovate continued to and techniques in the areas of digital clients with the opportunity to market their strengthen and adjust the shape and reach international brands more widely and with marketing strategy, creative design and of its global network.
In January the Group production, search engine optimization, uniformity.
In addition to a major presence moved Copernicus, its US research-based affiliate marketing, direct e-mail, and in Europe, Posterscope has expanded its marketing consultancy from Synovate to electronic relationship management.
presence in Asia Pacific in 2003 to include Carat in order to maximise synergies.
In China, Hong Kong, India, south-east Asia Carat Interactive has 22 offices in 17 March 2004 it acquired Symmetrics a US and Taiwan.
In the United States the based global leader in customer countries, is the largest in its field in company has a solid base from which to rd Europe and was ranked 3 largest global relationship measurement and grow.
The network will expand further its interactive media group by Mediapost in management.
Synovate Motoresearchs global reach in 2004 with planned office international capability was also improved February 2003 and 2003 Interactive openings in virtually every region.
Agency of the Year by BtoB magazine.
by the establishment of three regional centres in Detroit, London and Singapore The acquisition of PSI, a leading airport Effectively Carat Interactive became a advertising agency, has broadened network in its own right in 2003, although which have been tasked to develop Posterscopes specialist out-of-home still focussed on servicing Aegis existing specialist Motoresearch centres in all key offering.
Airport advertising is a robust and automotive markets.
In 2004 the Group intends to 16 Annie Rickard, CEO Posterscope Worldwide 17 Cancer in all its forms is serious and Synovate has a key role in winning the battle to treat it.
We help medical professionals, around the world understand the benets of different drug therapies in the industrys first ever global cancer care audit.
Michael Spedding, Synovate Healthcare Operating Review In April Synovate acquired Viewscast, a and broadens the range of syndicated Latin America is showing signs of recovery specialist in providing monitoring services audits to include HIV, Multiple Sclerosis, and its recently acquired business in Brazil to the call centre industry.
Synovate has Hepatitis B and Diabetes.
achieved significant growth and made a now adopted Viewscasts Interactive Voice positive contribution to profits in 2003.
Response system as its standard platform While Synovates organisation and The specialist industry divisions, especially for this type of data collection giving it the approach to market research is first and Healthcare and Public Sector, have secured widest network in the industry.
foremost a global one it may be useful to significant new or renewal business in highlight significant developments in the the period.
In September, the acquisition of Blackstone three principal regional theatres of our Synovate Asia Pacific Market Facts in India, gave Synovate a major operations.
The SARS health scare presented significant footprint in one of the worlds most problems for data gathering and cross border populous regions.
In the same month Synovate Americas research projects in the early part of 2003.
Synovate also acquired Belgium-based Synovates operations in the US and Latin Nevertheless, by the summer the problem Censydiam and added exceptional research America increased market share in the had subsided and net revenues for Asiacapabilities based on consumer motivational period while the US continued to show Pacific continued to increase satisfactorily.
psychology and these will be rolled out good growth in profits.
This was achieved Hong Kong, China, Japan, the Philippines and throughout Synovates global network.
against the backdrop of a static market South Korea all performed strongly with and both sales and revenues showed good China providing Asia-Pacifics best performing In October, Synovates Healthcare business growth.
This is despite one-off restructuring operation.
Taiwan was the only market in benefited from the acquisition of Isis costs and provides a strong endorsement Asia-Pacific that disappointed as a result of Research, which complements its existing of the management changes and poor market conditions.
By the end of US cancer care audit business making it streamlining of the business undertaken December, Asia-Pacifics sales pipeline was the worlds first global cancer care audit over the past two years.
significantly up compared with last year.
Synovate EMEA Europe, the Middle-East and Africa Economic recession and the impact of the Iraq war on business confidence meant that the research markets barely grew in many of the key EMEA countries.
Nevertheless, Synovate EMEA performed well, helped by the new business opportunities provided by Synovates international network.
A continued focus on multi-country studies, key account management, aggressive marketing of proprietary solutions and increased investment in regional business development capability enabled Synovate EMEA to gain market share.
During the year the European operation continued to grow with the addition of ISIS Research and Censydiam.
Although much has been done to build Geographic coverage in 2003, the Group continues to actively explore other acquisition opportunities in the region.
Investment in technology and the streamlining of operational processes are Adrian Chedore, CEO Synovate expected to further strengthen margins during the balance of the year.
18 19 Michael Spedding, CEO Synovate Healthcare
