10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 4 04 Compass Group PLC 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 5 Review of Operations Our business can be divided into three divisions UK, North America and Continental Europe and the rest of the world.
All have continued to achieve strong like for like turnover growth.
Whilst trading conditions have been tough in the rest of the world markets, particularly France, Germany, the Netherlands and Latin America, the impact has been largely offset by very good performances in Australia, South Africa, the Middle East, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, Scandinavia and Eastern Europe.
In the UK new business worth 175 million in annual turnover was won and opened.
Client retention rates remained at the record level of 95%.
North America turned in another record year with a highly successful sales effort generating substantial new business.
With business in more than 90 countries, Compass Group has strong and experienced management teams around the world.
Each countrys operation is run by local nationals wherever possible, who are based in that territory.
Each country is also part of a division that is represented on the Executive Committee.
Compass Group PLC 05 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 6 great service At the Cost Sector Catering Awards Eurest won the prestigious award for best Contract Caterer.
great people At the Culinary World Cup in 2002 the UK team won 35 major awards.
great service We are continuing great results A new initiative to to win contracts in Japan with roll out Au Bon Pain products in a number of major consumer North America is proving to be companies.
06 Compass Group PLC 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 7 International Growth Eurest continues to North America Despite the weakness in the Business and Industry Eurest is benefit from an increase in the number of American economy, like for like turnover growth the worlds largest specialist provider national and multi-national contracts it has in Business and Industry continued to improve.
of catering services to business with clients.
Electrical retailer Best Buy has awarded and industry.
The division has Eurest a ten-year contract for its corporate Our unique business model, employing headquarters with annual revenues of $4 million.
continued to perform well, sectorisation, brand ownership and international Notable contract renewals include contracts particularly in the core markets coverage, allied to our scale and global with ExxonMobil, Pfizer and Suncor worth of the UK and North America.
purchasing strength, continues to help us retain over $28 million in annual revenues.
Major clients, whilst attracting new ones as the trend improvement initiatives, including the roll-out to outsourcing continues.
of Au Bon Pain products into business and industry sites is proving to be very successful.
UK Eurest is the biggest catering company in the UK.
We can also claim to be the best.
Japan Japan is the second largest foodservice market in the world a market valued at At the Culinary World Cup in Luxembourg 20 billion a year.
In order to strengthen our in November 2002, our 25-strong squad of position here we bought Seiyo Food Systems 15 team chefs and 10 support chefs achieved in January 2002 and began creating a clear a remarkable 35 awards, including 10 gold, business structure for our various operations 18 silver and 7 bronze medals.
The judges also singled out Mark Hill, executive In this, the first full year since we began head chef for Eurest at Computer Associates, implementing the Groups business model, for special recognition.
As well as his individual we have achieved excellent progress.
gold and team buffet silver awards, Mark was presented with the overall Culinary World Cup Major contract wins included a 223 million per silver medal the second best individual year agreement with Asahi Television.
With our performance on this world stage.
operation with Nippon Television Network also going live this year, it means that two out of At the Cost Sector Catering Awards in March Japans six major national TV companies are 2003, Eurest Corporate Accounts won the now Group clients.
prestigious award for best Contract Caterer, where we were specifically recognised for We are continuing to win contracts with successfully meeting the need for individually a number of major consumer electronics tailored foodservice solutions among companies such as Sony Corporation and the multi-site businesses.
Sharp Kameyama factory worth a combined annual revenue of 500m : and another Such third-party acknowledgement of the significant development was a contract win quality of our people and the service they with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and provide goes some way to explaining why Industry with annual revenue of 72 million.
Contracts with global companies were won As a result, we win business and notable with HSBC in Tokyo, with Citigroup Japan and multi-site gains during the year included a GlaxoSmithKline Japan.
seven-year contract renewal with BT, worth 25 million in annual turnover, and a ten-year Continental Europe and rest of the world contract, worth 29 million in annual turnover Highlights from other markets include the with Woolworths where Eurest will be rebranding winning, in France, of three new contracts 68 public in-store restaurants throughout from Cegetel Vivendi for total annual revenues the UK.
of 3 million, and a 1 million contract from ExxonMobil Chemical.
All of these were won Other large contracts retained or won include a against fierce competition, following the three-year deal worth over 4 million in annual strengthening of the local management team turnover catering for 10,000 Orange employees with the appointment of a new sales director.
across 11 of the mobile phone service providers sites and with Experian, the global information In Switzerland, the teams of the recently solutions company, where we renewed a acquired Restorama and Creative Gastro three-year contract with 1.3 million in annual were successfully integrated into Compass turnover across five sites.
Switzerland, whose headquarters have moved from Montreux to Zurich.
In Germany, the But we dont stand still, and were looking, extension of a Deutsche Bank contract brings for example, to enrich the workplace eating the total number of catered units throughout experience with live theatre cookery.
In Italy, we have renewed a contract with ENI for five years which is worth 6 million in annual revenues.
Compass Group PLC 07 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 8 Organisations choose our fine dining services In the UK, Restaurant Associates gained a Fine Dining In-house catering of because of the flexibility and confidentiality number of prestigious contracts, including a restaurant quality creates an they offer.
1.5 million annual turnover contract to manage impression be it for entertaining the catering services at BALTIC, the Centre for important clients or as part of a Primarily through Restaurant Associates in the Contemporary Art in Gateshead.
UK and North America and Flik and the Patina corporate identity.
Group in the US, we provide the highest quality Milburns is now providing catering services at private dining arrangements, often in association the Imperial War Museum in London, while with top international chefs.
Leiths secured a three-year deal to manage the catering services for the women-only relaxation Indeed, during the year, Restaurant Associates spa, The Sanctuary in Londons Covent Garden.
introduced a guest chef programme in North America that has attracted chefs from as far In North America, Restaurant Associates and away as Sydney, Australia.
Flik have won several catering contracts with Citigroup, ABN AMRO, Revlon, AOL Time We recruit and develop first-class employees Warner and Morgan Stanley, worth a combined to deliver the finest in fine dining.
Flik has $20 million in annual revenues.
introduced an Employees Special on to its menu.
Each week one item that comes from the employees country or is their favourite thing to prepare is included as a menu item.
This not only gives them pride in serving their dish, it also increases sales because our customers ask about it and try it.
great people A guest chef programme in North America has attracted chefs from as far away R as Sydney, Australia.
great results Restaurant Associates gained a contract with BALTIC, the Centre for Contemporary Art in Gateshead.
08 Compass Group PLC 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 9 Being able to offer a national, 24 7 food and In the United States, Canteen Vending, Vending is a good indicator of beverage service with catering and vending which is the worlds largest route vending economic activity of night working combined under a single Compass umbrella company, won a number of sizeable contracts and overtime.
After a difficult 18 is a key competitive advantage for us.
months, Vending had a good year.
This is especially true in North America, but it Canteen continued to expand its brand Sales are showing signs of growth, is increasingly the case in Europe too, where portfolio with new offerings such as Au Bon Pain suggesting that the worst of the in 2003 Selecta enjoyed considerable success soups, Ritazza coffee and sbarro and Tony recession may be over.
with combined offers to clients such as Abbey Roma products, and also grew its franchising National in the UK and Deutsche Bank in operation, which requires little capital Germany.
Selecta is taking over the vending expenditure and offers good margins.
at 150 points of sale at Deutsche Bank.
Canteen has successfully launched a new Selecta has also grown its position in public electronic data collection process, iVend.
vending, particularly in the travel market, where This enhances driver productivity and morale during the year we secured a five-year contract by automating data collection from machines.
to operate 250 points of sale in Stockholm Metro stations, and at the UKs Eurotunnel terminal.
The launch of public vending in the UK coincided with the re-branding of the former Vendepac business under the Selecta brand in January 2003.
A programme of training and incentives to all front-line personnel is supporting the introduction of Selecta in the UK.
great people Canteen Vending in the United States is the worlds largest route vending company.
great people A programme of training and incentives to all frontline personnel is supporting the introduction of Selecta in the UK.
great serviceThe new iVend system was successfully launched and will be rolled out during 2004. great service Being able to offer a national catering and vending combined service is a key competitive advantage.
Compass Group PLC 09 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 10 great service In the UK, Medirest won a six-year, 10 million annual turnover contract with Southern Derbyshire Acute Hospitals.
great people In North America the partnership between Morrison and Crothall has given us a distinct competitive advantage.
great service In Japan, the market for outsourced healthcare catering is growing rapidly and represents a significant opportunity for us.
great people Our expertise and know-how have been strengthened by acquisitions in Japan.
great results Compass Canada won the contact to provide foodservice for the new William Osler hospital.
10 Compass Group PLC 10466 COMPASS FOLDOUT LOWRES 01 05 04 10:41 AM Page 1 The global foodservice and vending market is Acquisitions New acquisition spend for Growth was particularly strong in North America, With the structural changes that are taking place Welcome to Compass Group Healthcare Healthcare is one Compass Group is the worlds largest foodservice worth over 250 billion, which continues to grow the year amounted to 175 million reflecting though we also had a good year in Continental in the Japanese medical system, the market for Compass Group is the worlds of the major engines of growth as clients outsource to contract foodservice the Groups strategic focus on the organic Europe, and have taken positive action in Japan outsourced healthcare catering is growing organisation.
We specialise in providing food and leading foodservice company in our business.
Compass Group providers such as ourselves.
As the market development of its core foodservice and to position ourselves to take advantage of some rapidly, and represents a significant business vending services on clients premises often using leader we have around a 4% share.
The Group will continue in a global market which continues to build a successful very significant opportunities.
The year was opportunity for the Group.
continually monitor market trends and refine to make small infill acquisitions, whilst focusing tougher in the UK, however, where few contracts continues to grow.
presence in healthcare foodservice foodservice brands that we own or franchise.
our service offering to meet the needs and on organic growth.
In order to further strengthen our expertise in worldwide, through foodservice expectations of our clients and customers.
this area and obtain new operational know-how, The trend to outsourcing is set to continue The most significant acquisition made during companies Medirest and Morrison, We provide great service to customers who are In North America the partnership between Seiyo Food Systems acquired Mediforce and this will drive future growth.
the year was a majority stake in Onama S. p. A. Morrison and the Groups specialist healthcare Group and Eishoku Foodservice Group in supported in the USA by Crothall, choosing to eat whilst at school, in hospital, when based in Milan, Italy.
The consideration for the facilities management company, Crothall, has June 2002 and February 2003 respectively.
its specialist healthcare facilities Results 2003 was a challenging year.
As the 60% stake acquired was 87 million.
Onama again given us a distinct competitive advantage Both companies have strong positions in the travelling, at work or at leisure.
Our ambition is to be management subsidiary.
year progressed the macroeconomic backdrop provides 90 million meals annually from 600 in the market.
healthcare foodservice market and have continued to deteriorate in Continental Europe, catering facilities.
The acquisition of Onama provided us with an excellent base for a truly great company, and to be the standard by as the economies of France and Germany gives the Group a market-leading position in Large contract wins included Crothalls $7 million organic growth.
The situation in France was Continental Europes third largest contract laundry contract at Salem Health Services in further impacted by industrial action over the foodservice market.
The integration of Compass Massachusetts and Morrisons successful During the year we won a number of significant summer.
However, with our geographic and Groups existing operation in Italy into Onama $10 million contract to supply the University of contracts including those with Kagoshima sector diversity, the rapid and effective response has been completed successfully.
During the Texas Medical Branch.
Compass Canada also University Hospital and the Shimonoseki of our management teams and our continued year Onama has renewed a contract with ENI won the contract to provide foodservice for Hospital which have a combined value of focus on client retention, we are pleased to for five years, which is worth 6 million in annual the new William Osler hospital being built by more than 410 million a year for providing report that we have delivered on our goals.
Like turnover and signed a new contract with The Healthcare Infrastructure Company of 2,400 meals a day.
for like turnover growth for the year was 6% and Banca dItalia which is worth 5 million in Canada, with annual revenues of $20 million.
like for like margin growth was 30 basis points.
The hospital is due to open in 2006.
In France In the UK, Medirest has won a six-year contract Full year like for like turnover growth for the UK the business had significant sales successes with Southern Derbyshire Acute Hospitals NHS division was 5%, in the Continental Europe and Disposals In June 2002, following a strategic during 2003, including a 5 million contract Trust, worth 10 million in annual turnover, to rest of the world division 6% and in the North review, the Group announced that it was to with Medica France to provide catering to provide catering and hotel services to the America division 7%.
pursue the disposal of Little Chef and Travelodge 48 retirement homes.
Derbyshire Royal Infirmary and the Derby City as they lie outside the Groups core focus on General Hospital.
Margin growth within the UK division has foodservice and vending.
The sale, to funds benefited from the final tranche of the Granada advised by Permira, a leading international Medirest is rolling out an English Language merger synergies.
Outside the UK, we have private equity firm, was completed on training programme in partnership with UNISON continued to invest in the infrastructure we 4 February 2003 for a total cash consideration the main health trade union to help catering need to increase purchasing synergies and of 712 million.
Proceeds have been used to and cleaning staff who speak English as a labour efficiencies.
reduce borrowings and fund an on market share second language improve their communication buy back programme of 300 million.
Hospitals across London will benefit from Free cash flow from continuing activities 30 September 2003 the Group had returned the scheme.
improved by 20% to 405 million and return on 211 million in cash to shareholders.
capital employed from continuing activities rose by 40 basis points.
Shareholder Returns The recommended final dividend is 5.7 pence per share resulting in a Growth Organic growth has been fuelled total dividend for the year of 8.4 pence per share, by contract gains some of which are an increase of 18%.
This reflects the excellent highlighted below: performance in 2003 and the Groups confidence in its ability to continue to generate strong free Eurest has been awarded a ten-year contract cash flow.
worth 29 million in annual turnover to feed staff at 68 sites of the UK retailer Woolworths Management Peter Harris, CEO of ESS, our Selecta took over the vending for 150 Defence, Offshore and Remote Site facilities machines at Deutsche Bank.
In addition, management company, has joined the Groups Eurest has extended its catering with Deutsche Executive Committee.
Peters appointment Bank in 25 units throughout Germany.
reflects the continued growth of this business ESS has been awarded a ten-year contract where the Group is now the markets leading with Schlumberger oilfield services company provider of these specialist services.
The worth $26 million per annum in the first year Defence, Offshore and Remote Site sector of operation with a potential total annual value now represents 750 million of the Groups of around $60 million.
turnover, which has increased from 60 million over the last nine years.
Brands The Groups ability to develop and operate highly successful brands gives it a great results Like for like turnover unique competitive advantage, both in securing new contracts with clients, and also in its ability growth for the year of 6%.
to respond to the needs of an ever more demanding customer base.
great people The Group has continued to develop its owned brands, which include Au Bon Pain, Upper Crust, great service Harry Ramsdens, amigo, Taste, Naples 45, Cucina & Co, and also to trade with third party great results brands including Burger King, sbarro and Krispy Kreme doughnuts.
Compass Group PLC 01 02 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 11 10466 COMPASS FOLDOUT LOWRES 01 05 04 10:41 AM Page 2 Where we operate Business and Industry Fine Dining Restaurant Vending Vending is an integral Healthcare and Seniors Travel, Leisure and Education Scolarest and Defence, Offshore and Our airport operations around the world had Rail Gourmet had a good year.
In the UK, Travel, Leisure and Concessions Group Overview Compass Group Compass Group operates Eurest is the world leader Associates provides the finest part of the foodservice and Morrison and Medirest provide Concessions Select Service Chartwells are leading Remote Site ESS Support a good year despite the effects of SARS.
Our disruption to the rail network caused by in seven clearly defined in food and services possible executive dining beverage provision for most food, nutrition and dining Partner SSP is the Groups international companies Services Worldwide ESS Despite SARS, the sun continued is a truly international company with operations in Asia finished the year very strongly, maintenance work has meant that passenger market sectors through management to customers at facilities, often in association modern organisations, and is services to the healthcare and specialist concessions in the education market.
They is the largest provider of to shine on our travel related more than 400,000 people working distinct, client-facing their workplace, ranging from with top international chefs an area of great international senior living markets across company, providing high meet the needs of pupils and integrated support services yet at the height of the SARS outbreak volumes numbers were flat but significantly the contract operating companies.
employee restaurants to such as Albert Roux, for strength for Compass Group.
Crothall, which quality food and beverage students, from pre-school in the world to clients in the businesses.
in Hong Kong, where SSP has extended its with GNER was renewed.
Rail Gourmet also in over 90 countries, generating executive dining.
Clients boardrooms, hospitality suites Through Canteen Vending specialises in providing services at travel, shopping infants, through primary and defence, offshore and remote operations from 5 to 13 units with a seven-year renewed its catering logistics contracts with revenues of over 11 billion per year.
include local, national and and at major social events.
and Selecta, we are the facilities management services and leisure locations.
SSP is secondary school to higher site sectors, providing the full contract worth 10 million in incremental annual Eurostar for London and Brussels, and for international organisations largest route vending company to the healthcare sector, works the largest airport restaurant education.
They focus on spectrum of support services as well as state and regional in the world, providing high alongside Morrison in the USA.
operator in Europe and the offering an attentive, quality, to clients in over 50 countries, revenues, were 75% down.
In October 2003, Thalys and TGV in Brussels and was awarded governments who employ quality and innovative vending largest provider of foodservice innovative and consistent often under difficult and hostile SSP was awarded the contract for Hainan Island the contract for the passenger lounges in the Eurest to provide quality and services to clients across at rail stations in the UK.
All parts of the Airport in China worth 4 million in annual Eurostar terminals in London, Paris and cost-effective foodservice.
services offered, ranging from revenues.
Our strength in airports lies in the Brussels.
These contracts represent combined SSP also operates Moto, the design and build of camp the UKs leading motorway structures to operational UK and Continental Europe where given the annual revenues of over 2 million.
Contracts services operator and 27 sites support in catering, difficulties we delivered good overall results.
with AVE in Spain, NSB in Norway and DSB in in continental Europe.
Superior housekeeping, technical In France, SSPs contract at Charles fide Gaulle Denmark were all renewed with combined quality catering for high profile services or logistics, are done airport was extended for a further six years with annual revenues of 39 million.
sporting, social and leisure with a view to creating lasting centres is provided by a business partnerships.
annual revenues of 15 million and a nine-year number of prestige companies contract for 10 additional units at Zurich Airport Starting last September with the Ryder Cup, we within the Group.
R worth 16 million in annual revenues was also catered for another remarkable series of sporting signed.
SSP was also awarded new contracts events including the Kentucky Derby in May and in the UK at Bournemouth, Derry and Newcastle the Superbowl.
In 2003 Levy Restaurants won International airports with combined annual the coveted Ivy Award in the Sports and turnover of 10.5 million.
Entertainment category for the third time.
In North America, SSP was awarded a ten-year In May we acquired FMC, the company contract in the new Terminal 1 at Toronto Lester responsible for catering at the Wimbledon tennis B Pearson International Airport worth championships, the largest single annual sports CAD20 million in annual revenues.
Together with Flushing Meadow, we now cater for two of the The good summer in Europe benefited our top venues in tennis.
motorway service area MSA business.
In the Owned brands Compass Franchised brands In UK, Moto continued to perform very well and In Japan, where we are the largest operator What we do Whether clients are setting up Group has an exceptional addition to owning and during the summer we opened our first M&S of golf course restaurants, we opened five foodservice for the first time or are wishing to portfolio of local and operating our own high-profile Simply Food at Toddington services.
In new sites, with an annual contract value of outsource an existing operation, we can provide international foodservice brands, Compass Group is a December 2002, two Moto service areas were 500 million.
Compass Group companies work brands.
They are available in major franchisee, often a variety of formats from full exclusively, of many wellopened in Portugal.
In Italy, we bought a small in close partnership with our clients and service outlets through to known international brands.
MSA operator, Plose, which has five sites in Italy Our business portfolio continues to grow and specialise in providing food and vending carts, kiosks and vending These include Burger King and and two in Austria.
We have already rebranded during the year we have trialled our new pizza services for their customers.
We are usually machines, and are used by Pizza Hut.
Other franchised a site north of Venice as Moto and initial trading and chicken brands in a number of locations based at our clients premises where we operating companies in a brands include sbarro, offering number of our chosen market freshly prepared Italian food results are very encouraging.
We are also with encouraging results.
Caff Ritazza has are an integral part of their team.
The Upper Crust such as lasagne and New gearing up to bid for over 100 MSA concessions undergone further brand development and brand, for example, York-style pizza, and Krispy that are due to expire in 2004 on the Italian newly converted sites have seen significant How we work Foodservice contracts are usually established itself in airports Kreme which is famous for its motorway network.
based around one of the following: and railway stations, but is now doughnuts, real fruit pies, available increasingly in the cinnamon buns and other business and industry sector, snack foods.
All of the costs as well as at education and of providing the service are paid by the supplier healthcare sites and in the and recharged together with an agreed fee.
amigo is the global convenience store Fixed cost contracts.
The client pays an brand that is being rolled out agreed cost for a specified menu of services.
amigo offers This cost may be varied for example if the convenience shopping for number of customers changes considerably.
busy people that is fast, friendly and tempting.
The foodservice supplier has control over the offer and pricing in situations where there is little or no client subsidy and the service is paid for by the end-users.
The company pays an agreed percentage of turnover for the right to trade at the clients premises.
great people In Hong Kong, staff great results 11 billion of wore face masks to work and revenues generated per year.
endured daily temperature testing to prove they were SARS-free.
great service Moto now provides great people 400,000 people great service Contract dog-feeding stations for drivers working in over 90 countries.
12 Compass Group PLC 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 13 great service The new Caff Ritazza in Tunis airport is the largest in the Compass Group.
great people Staff maintained service and broke sales records following powercuts in North America.
Compass Group PLC 13 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 14 The education sector has exacting UK Scolarest is providing meals to 40 primary Education Like Healthcare, requirements.
Children need a varied and and three special schools in the London Education continues to be a major nutritious diet.
But we have to balance that with Borough of Richmond-upon-Thames.
A report driver of the business, and showed providing meals that they want to eat and that published in January 2003 by Ofsted, the UK double-digit growth last year.
their parents would want them to eat.
We also governments schools inspectorate, praised the have to take a very different approach when schools catering service as a key strength of the feeding three-year-olds at nursery to catering boroughs education provision.
This helped to for brand-conscious students at university.
win a five-year extension to the contract, and Its a challenge.
means that Scolarest will now be providing meals worth over 1 million in annual revenue.
But through Chartwells and Scolarest Compass companies that operate in more Notable contract gains during the year included than 30 countries we have an unrivalled a four-year, 2.4 million contract for catering understanding of foodservice needs in services to 4,000 pupils across six schools in education and experience in meeting them.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne and contracts worth 5 million in annual turnover with the London North America Over the past four years we Borough of Camden and Medway Council to have more than doubled the length of the provide more than 21,000 meals a day.
average Chartwells contract from over three years in 1999 to over seven years now.
In the independent schools market, Scolarest was awarded a 2 million contract to provide Chartwells successfully won the foodservice food, labour and management services for contract at the University of North Carolina at pupils and staff at Downside School in Charlotte, with annual turnover of $10 million.
Continental Europe and the rest of the world A number of important university contracts were won during the year, including Copenhagen University in Denmark, and two ten-year deals in the Middle East, which were signed in September 2003.
One of those, a sole catering contract with the Misr University of Science and Technology in Egypt will include the introduction of brands such as Caff Ritazza, Upper Crust and amigo.
A new contract at the prestigious American University of Beirut is estimated to be worth $1.5 million in annual revenues over the next ten years.
great service In the independent schools market, Scolarest was awarded a 2 million contract at Downside School.
14 Compass Group PLC 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 15 great people An Ofsted report praised the school catering service provided by Scolarest employees in Richmond-upon-Thames.
great service In North America the average length of a Chartwells contract has more than doubled since 1999. great results Chartwells won the foodservice contract at the University of North Carolina in Charlotte.
great results A new contract at the prestigious American University of Beirut is estimated to be worth $1.5 million in annual revenues.
great service Chartwells and Scolarest operate in more than 30 countries worldwide.
Compass Group PLC 15 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 16 ESS Support Services Worldwide ESS has ESS has also been awarded a global PSA with Defence, Offshore and Remote Site 40,000 people operating in over 50 countries fide Beers.
ESS currently provides integrated Nine years ago, this was a business providing integrated support services to clients support services at four sites on behalf of fide with a turnover of 60 million.
Today in the defence, offshore and remote site sectors.
This new contract offers the potential to it is 750 million and 90% of this On the surface, ESS delivers a comprehensive provide services to all 24,000 staff at all of their range of services that incorporate everything sites across the 19 countries within which they growth has been organic.
ESS is from the initial design of facilities to their project operate.
The initial new contract value is for the world leader in this market with management and building, full operational turnover of 10 million per annum and covers unique expertise.
support including providing customers with the operations in South Africa.
Additional expansion full suite of hospitality services and technical to Botswana, Namibia and Canada is expected support in areas such as utilities or vehicle in the short-term, which will increase the maintenance.
Underlying this is expertise contract value significantly to an estimated 50 in supply chain management and logistics million of annual turnover.
This came quick on that ensures clients, no matter where they are the heels of a contract worth 4 million in annual or what the environmental conditions, get their turnover to provide full village management and supplies when and where they want them.
services to over 2,000 workers for the Coega Development Corporation in South Africa.
Proof of ESSs continuing ability to provide excellent value to its clients has been in the In the defence sector ESS continued to grow continued evolution of its global Preferred its business along a number of fronts.
New wins Supplier Agreement PSA with ChevronTexaco.
in the UK have included the award of a ten-year The continued growth of business opportunities contract worth 11 million annually to provide with ChevronTexaco has seen the expansion catering services to the Army Training Estate.
of services to sites both in established and The supply of rations and other services to new countries.
ESS has also applied innovative various United Nations missions and other initiatives in extended enterprise agreements countries defence forces continues to build and joint procurement projects.
As an example, ESSs portfolio of experience and confirms its after the initial footprint with ChevronTexaco in ability to meet the logistical challenges often Kazakhstan in April 2002 business has doubled encountered in areas of unrest.
An illustration of by taking on additional services and clients in this is the five-year contract to supply rations to the area.
the United Nations mission in Liberia with annual turnover of $12 million.
An example of ESS extending its expertise in global PSAs was the signing of oilfield services In the remote sector significant new contract giant Schlumberger.
This significant ten-year wins included the award by BHP Billiton of the agreement, with initial annual turnover of largest foodservice contract in Latin America.
$26 million, means ESS has a prime position Covering their operations in Chile, Columbia and to provide services to Schlumberger sites across Peru, it is worth $22 million in annual revenues.
the world, including locations as diverse as the In Australia the ESS team secured the first frozen slopes of Alaska and the searing deserts national contract for support services with the of Oman.
This innovative approach to PSAs award of a three-year 10 million contract by provides a unique opportunity for both ESS Western Mining Corporation Resources Ltd. and its partners to create sustainable business partnerships with a view to continuing benefits in years to come while securing revenues in the present.
16 Compass Group PLC 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 17 great results 90% of the growth of the division to the 750 million turnover level has been organic.
great service We have been awarded the largest food service contract in Latin America by BHP Billiton.
great results Nine years ago this was a business with a turnover of 60 million.
great service In the UK we were awarded a ten-year contract worth 11 million in annual turnover with the Army Training Estate.
great people ESS has 40,000 people operating in over 50 countries worldwide.
