Computacenter is Europes leading independent provider Group operations of IT infrastructure services.
To help our customers maximise the value of IT to their businesses, we offer services at every stage of infrastructure deployment.
Our corporate and government clients are served by a network of branch offices across the UK, Germany, France, Austria, Luxembourg and Belgium, and through our international partners at locations throughout the world.
1 United Kingdom 3 France Computacenters Revenue: 1,455.3 million Revenue: 324.5 million European regions Number of employees: 4,679 Number of employees: 1,223 Aberdeen, Belfast, Birmingham, Bordeaux, Dijon, Grenoble, Lille, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Gatwick, Lyon, Marseille, Nantes, Nice, Hatfield, Leeds, Liverpool, London, Orlans, Paris, Pau, Rennes, Rouen, Maidenhead, Manchester, Strasbourg, Toulouse Milton Keynes, Reading, Watford 4 Austria 2 Germany Revenue: 49.0 million Revenue: 635.1 million Number of employees: 213 Number of employees: 3,501 Graz, Innsbruck, Klagenfurt, Linz, Berlin, Cologne, Essen, Frankfurt, Salzburg, Vienna Hamburg, Hanover, Kerpen, Kiel, Leipzig, Ludwigshafen, Munich, 5 Belgium and Luxembourg Nrnberg, Stuttgart Revenue: 17.3 million Number of employees: 100 Brussels, Luxembourg 1 2 5 4 3 2 Computacenter plc 2003 2002 Highlights 2003 million million Group revenue 2,481.3 1,926.7 1 Group operating profit 65.9 56.2 Profit before tax 65.2 55.1 Earnings per share 25.0p 20.4p Year-end Group employee numbers 9,716 6,022 1 Excluding results of associated undertakings and joint ventures.
Computacenter advises customers on Infrastructure Integration Business their IT strategy, implements appropriate Computacenter helps IT departments activity technologies and manages elements of implement and integrate new their IT infrastructures on their behalf.
technologies into their infrastructures At every stage we aim to help customers through its considerable technical minimise the cost and maximise the value and project management skills.
application of best practice means new solutions can be implemented Managed Services at lower cost, in less time and with Our Managed Services allow IT greater certainty.
departments to free up their time by outsourcing specific areas of Technology Sourcing infrastructure management to Computacenter serves as a single Computacenter.
By shouldering this source for an organisation's entire responsibility, we can provide our IT procurement needs.
Our vendor customers with improved service levels independence means we can leverage and reduce their ongoing operational our economies of scale, streamlined costs.
We also give them access to logistics capability and strategic additional specialist skills that can be relationships to source technology scaled upwards or downwards according that meets customer requirements to their changing business requirements.
