Operating review Mike Humphrey Group Chief Executive In 2003 we continued to make progress in our objectives to add value for our shareholders, our customers and our employees.
The established strategy of focus on business areas that can weather macro-economic shocks was vindicated once again.
The first half of the year saw major upheavals caused by stuttering US and European economies, the war in Iraq and the outbreak of SARS in Asia.
Croda emerged with a solid profit performance and excellent cash flow despite the extra 3.1m of Research has costs we incurred on pensions and insurance.
Sales were flat, due mainly to exiting some low margin business in the always been at the USA and the planned fall in sales of very low margin vegetable oils from our restructured Seatons operation.
Unfavourable currency movements also had a negative impact.
The constant pursuit of improved product heart of Croda.
mix in our Oleochemicals business led to another impressive operating margin of 16.8%.
The fall in operating margin in our Other business area was mainly due to restructuring costs which should deliver improved The fruits of this margins in 2004.
In spite of the slow economy, our ongoing sales in Europe increased by over 5%.
Excluding the UK, European sales grew by 16%, partly as a research have consequence of customer manufacturing moving out of the UK to places like Poland.
Sales were good in all major markets, particularly France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Poland.
made Croda a It was a different story in the Americas.
Sales were down in the USA by 13%, half of which was currency related.
The other major reason was our withdrawal from low margin business in laundry softeners.
We world leader therefore have more capacity to expand in more profitable areas.
Sales in Canada again increased substantially, especially in the Personal Care segment.
There was also good growth in Latin America, particularly in in naturally Argentina and Mexico.
5 Quats Of Crodas natural-based specialities for skin and hair care none are more effective than the quats short for quaternary ammonium compounds developed by Croda Inc, USA.
When incorporated into hair care products such as cream rinses and conditioners, these cationic ingredients make hair feel and comb better.
They impart lubricity, reduce flyaway and not only protect hair against damage, but can actually help repair it by adhering more to damaged areas.
In skin care products, quats impart a soft, powdery feel.
Quats are also widely used in fabric softeners, making your clothes feel soft, as well as acting as anti-static agents for a range of household, industrial and textile applications.
In Asia, the picture was again mixed.
An excellent performance in Japan saw sales rise by 7%, but SARS impacted business activity in a number We increased of areas, not least because travel was almost impossible for a considerable time.
Sales increased substantially from our Singapore plant.
Sales in the Middle East were affected by the invasion of Iraq, but there the pace of was again some progress in Africa.
In Australia, sales grew by 9%, in spite of a weak performance by our small joint venture rock anchor operation.
new product Good growth in Personal Care, combined with even better growth in Health Care, provides a solid platform for the future.
There was extreme competitive pressure in the area of Plastics Additives, but margins were maintained in spite of a drop in sales due to destocking introductions in the polyolefins market.
We increased the pace of new product introductions, with our Actives businesses leading the way.
Sedermas world class expertise in skin care peptides has paid off handsomely.
The Crodamazon range was expanded further and there were promising new product launches from all our other major research centres in the UK, USA and Japan.
New products are embedded in our culture and create our future profits.
6 Again, we tightened our strategic focus.
We restructured Seatons and outsourced all manufacture, with an immediate increase in profitability.
We completed the exit from our gelatin business, closing the Plymouth site and selling off the redundant plant and technology.
At the beginning of 2004, we completed the sale of Croda Fire Fighting Chemicals to Kidde plc.
A number of redundant sites were also sold during 2003.
We continued to build and strengthen our marketing teams around the world.
We also continued to invest in our R&D facilities and our production units.
Improvements and expansion took place at all our major sites.
In particular, a new lipid plant is due on stream at Leek at the end of June, which will enable us to cope with the strong demand for high purity lipids.
Also we are currently commissioning a new plant at Rawcliffe Bridge to expand our production of high added value lanolin derivatives.
I am pleased to report that the SAP rollout continues successfully with Brazil having gone live in quarter one of 2004 and Singapore due to go live in the second quarter.
We continued Cash generation has been a focus of all levels of management for the last few years.
Once again this focus produced good cash flows and to build and leaves us with a strong balance sheet.
strengthen our marketing teams 7 Naturally Croda Nature has always been our principal raw material supplier, providing a wealth of self renewing resources, which are moulded and shaped by Crodas chemistry into the widest range of natural-based specialities available anywhere in the world.
Sederma has the biotechnological know-how to create a unique range of skincare actives, from sources as diverse as the mighty birch to the tiny bacteria, thermos thermophilus, from the depths of the ocean.
Crodarom offers an unrivalled range of sophisticated plant extracts for Personal Care.
And then there is Crodamazon: working in a sustainable partnership with the people of the Amazon, creating a range of specialities based on the fruits of the Rainforest.
Chemistry has never been more natural.
Oleochemicals Our Results 2003 2002 concentration External turnover m 261.6 260.1 Trading profit m 44.0 43.4 Margin % 16.8 16.7 on value over Capital employed m 187.1 196.5 Return on capital % 23.5 22.1 volume led to an This is an excellent business with an exciting future.
Trading profits increased to 44m on sales increased to 261.6m.
Our concentration increase in on value over volume led to an increase in trading margin to 16.8%.
The core business now represents 92% of Group sales and 96% of Group trading profit.
This is a genuine speciality business, as evidenced by the continuing high margin in the face of a number of raw material trading cost increases.
Personal Care continues to grow.
Sederma produced another strong performance, with Matrixyl becoming their best selling product ever.
margin to Crodarom also introduced many exciting new products and again produced a good profit.
We had expected the USA to perform strongly, but the Iraq war and customer product launch delays hit our business, as did the translation effect of the weak US Dollar in the second half.
We are confident of a better performance in 2004 in US Dollars.
16.8% 8 The new pan European company formed at the end of 2002 settled The Home Care business had a year of mixed fortunes, with customer down quickly and produced an excellent result in sales, but more reformulations working both for us and against us.
Going forward, the especially in profits.
We are confident this will improve further in 2004. signs are that these are going for us in 2004, with a number of major launches containing Croda products, especially in fabric care.
In Latin America, the marketing teams performed well in challenging conditions.
The new lanolin plant in Brazil goes from strength to Crodas great non-tangible strengths are its intellectual capital and its strength and sales from the Crodamazon plant in Manaus grew well.
Both continue to grow with more new We expect growth from both of these sites in 2004. technology, more patents and more additions to the marketing teams, including a new office in Thailand.
We are not reliant on any one After a 16% sales growth in 2002, the Singapore operation increased customer for our future success: in fact our largest customer globally sales by a further 10%.
This business is now solidly in profit and should represents less than 3% of Group sales.
Across Asia, the Personal Care business was hit by SARS and general uncertainty.
Croda Japan continued its good progress, increasing sales by 5% by focussing on Personal and Health Care.
The Health Care business again showed good growth.
In fact, sales would have been much higher but for capacity limitations.
The much needed capacity for high purity lipids will be available during 2004 and we are confident of growth in this dynamic area.
I should emphasise that this growth is in no way dependent on the potential pharmaceutical prospects like Provensis and Tillots, though as and when they bring product to market successfully there will be a significant step change in this business.
9 Lanolin Croda was founded to make lanolin and today we are the worlds largest producer of lanolin and its many derivatives, with manufacturing facilities in the UK, Brazil and Japan.
We pioneered the use of lanolin-based rust preventives back in the 1930s.
In the 1940s we extracted wool wax alcohols, which became a base for penicillin ointment.
Lanolins emollient skin softening properties for cosmetics and toiletries are still unsurpassed, so we made the purest, palest form of lanolin available anywhere in the world: Medilan, the ultimate skincare ingredient, whose purity exceeds even pharmacopoeia requirements.
Lanolin was Crodas first product, and remains key to this day.
Other Results 2003 2002 External turnover m 23.7 26.3 Trading profit m 1.8 2.9 Margin % 7.6 11.0 Capital employed m 16.7 16.6 Return on capital % 10.8 17.5 This was another challenging year for these small businesses.
They are mainly Europe orientated and operating in tough end markets.
The fall in sales was due mainly to the planned withdrawal from cheap commodities at Seatons.
Seatons had a good year after the closure of UK manufacturing and a successful transfer to outsourced product.
Croda Application Chemicals grew its sales by over 15% but its profits were impacted by restructuring costs which should pay back in 2004.
10 Baxenden Chemicals profits were down due to very competitive market conditions.
Celtite in Australia had another difficult year, but focussing its operations on one site and a new management team should give improved performance in 2004.
Fire Fighting Chemicals had a solid year of progress but we took the decision to sell this unit as it no longer fitted our core business objectives.
The transaction was completed in January 2004 and as a consequence its results are reported under discontinued operations.
11 Lipids Over 20 years of research have consolidated Crodas position as a world leader in lipid technology.
A notable example was the development of Lorenzos Oil for the treatment of the neurological disorder ALD adrenoleukodystrophy.
Research continues, both at Croda and with universities, into the dietary management of other diseases using lipids.
For example, a recent clinical trial focussing on women has demonstrated the cardioprotective benefits of Crodas combined omega-3 omega-6 fatty acid concentrates.
As a result of strong global demand for our marine and plant lipid concentrates, particularly the omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids for dietary supplements, Croda Health Care is significantly expanding production at its Leek site.
Summary 2003 was a year of strong performance against a backdrop of global uncertainty and challenging trading conditions.
We increased profits in spite of all this and in the face of increases in pension and insurance costs of 3.1m.
We have a terrific culture and a dynamic workforce, committed to change and improvement.
We continue to seek suitable acquisitions.
We are confident in our plans for organic growth in our chosen areas of expertise and in our ability to add value for all our stakeholders.
It is sad to report that the architect of the modern Croda, Sir Frederick Freddie Wood died in 2003.
He was part of the fabric of Croda, being born on the original site the year after Croda was founded.
I would like to think he would be proud of his legacy.
In an annual report some decades ago, he said that the cobbler should stick to his last.
And thats what Croda has done in focussing on being the best marketer and producer of speciality oleochemicals to the global markets of Consumer Care.
2003 was a year of strong performance 12 We have a terrific culture and a dynamic workforce 13
