6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Operational review Consumer Foods The Consumer Foods division reflects Dairy Crests business with retailers, including our share of the Yoplait Dairy Crest joint venture.
Turnover decreased by 3% from 841.6 million to 814.8 million.
Operating profit fell by 1% to 62.4 million, although operating margin increased slightly from 7.5% to 7.7%.
This performance reflected margin pressure in commodity cheese, offset by ongoing brand growth, together with the benefits from the St Ivel Spreads acquisition.
Country Life, the Number 1 English Spreads butter brand, was re-launched in Dairy Crests existing spreads business benefited from the continued strength of Clovers 2002 with the strapline, Freshly performance.
Clovers sales volumes increased by 9%, compared with the spreads and churned English butter and last butter market where sales volumes declined by 2%.
This strong growth, combined with year saw sales increase in a the brands premium position, has helped maintain Clover as the clear brand leader in the declining market.
We are continuing to invest in appropriate levels of marketing support to further strengthen its consumer appeal, as evidenced by the new TV campaign that commenced in May.
Dairy Crest is the leading manufacturer of Country Life in the UK.
Both Country Life butter and Country Life Spreadable have shown good volume growth during the year.
Argento was launched in June 2002, giving Dairy Crest a presence in olive oil based spreads, subsequently added to by the Carapelli brand.
In line with its strategy of building brands, Dairy Crest acquired the St Ivel Spreads business from the Uniq Group for a consideration of 86.5 million in November 2002.
The Made with freshly churned cream combined spreads business has performed ahead of our expectations during our period to provide a deliciously smooth of ownership.
Following the acquisition, Dairy Crest has a presence in all sectors of the creamy taste, Country Life spreads and butter market and is now the market leader, by volume, in the growing taste Spreadable is the fastest growing sector, as well as the number two player in health.
As expected, the acquisition has spreadable product.
enhanced adjusted earnings and is generating a return on investment in excess of Dairy Crests cost of capital.
The combined spreads business is highly cash generative.
We now have a broad portfolio of brands, each with a clearly defined role within the category.
The management of this portfolio as a whole will strengthen the position of each individual brand.
The combined spreads business is expected to be the biggest contributor to Group profits and should continue to make progress in the current year, due to brand growth and the synergy benefits of the acquisition.
These synergy benefits are being delivered in line with plan but will be offset in the current year by the planned increases in marketing spend to support the St Ivel brands and recent increases in the cost of Willow continues to grow on the vegetable oil.
A new advertising campaign for Utterly Butterly is being implemented and relaunches of St Ivel Gold and Vitalite are planned for the summer.
strength of its appeal to young, family orientated consumers who appreciate its creamy taste and spreadable characteristics.
A tasty spread We now have a broad portfolio of brands, each with a clearly defined role Market share of Market share of taste sector by volume health sector by volume Other 7% Other 11% Dairy Crest 14% Own label 17% Own label 18% Dairy Crest 30% Unilever 62% Arla 29% Unilever 12% Source: AC Nielsen 52 w e 19 April 2003 A strong appetite for further growth The UKs leading manufacturer of branded and added value cheddar Brand share of the Analysis of cheddar Comparison of UK retail cheddar market market by volume sectors of cheddar by volume market by volume m Others 10% Mild 27% Extra mature Brands 23% 12% Mature 40% Medium 11% 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 Mild Medium Mature Extra mature Source: TNS Superpanel 52 w e 30 March 2003 158 154 -2.1% 95 91 -3.4% 342 370 8.1% 118 124 4.7% 9 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Operational review continued Consumer Foods Cheese The underlying performance of the cheese business reflects the benefits of our sustained marketing and capital investment over a number of years to build a strong added value and brand position.
We have had yet another year of outstanding progress in Cathedral City with sales volumes ahead by 23%, compared to the mature cheddar market, where volume grew by just 2%.
Cathedral City is the clear market leader in mature cheddar and this growth underpins our strong belief in future opportunities for Cathedral City, since it currently only has a market share of around 9% of the retail cheddar sector.
We therefore continue to invest in an active programme of brand development with appropriate new product development and packaging innovation.
Davidstow has also performed well, with The Davidstow creamery in Cornwall significant volume uplift of 18%.
has been producing cheese for 52 years and the brand grew by 18% Notwithstanding the strong performance of Cathedral City and Davidstow, the profitability last year.
of the cheese business was significantly impacted by adverse market conditions in commodity cheddar.
As noted in November 2002, realisations in commodity cheddar reduced to a ten year low in the summer of 2002, with industry stocks reaching an unsustainably high level, peaking in August 2002.
Based on industry estimates, stock levels at the year end were down approximately 13% from their peak.
We therefore believe that commodity mild cheddar cheese stocks are now in balance and prices are starting to rise.
However, prices and margins for commodity mature cheddar will be under pressure over the next few months, as the final excess mature stocks work their way through the system.
A progressive firming in cheese pricing is therefore expected throughout the year as this position resolves itself.
We do not expect the particularly difficult trading conditions experienced in commodity cheddar in 2002 03 to be repeated in the medium term.
Our Stilton and specialist cheese business has made progress over the previous year, capitalising on the investment in our manufacturing facility at Hartington, which was completed in 2001.
Our net investment of 41 million to enhance and upgrade Dairy Crests creamery at Davidstow is progressing well and on track to be completed in spring 2004.
The Dairy Crests Hartington creamery investment will increase capacity by approximately two thirds over the next ten years and will support the continuing growth of Cathedral City and Davidstow.
We are also investing in Derbyshire is the largest producer of Stilton in the UK.
in further automation at Maelor to enhance its position as the leading cheese prepack site in the UK.
We believe that the long-term fundamentals of our cheese business are good, as we continue to develop our added value and branded offering.
We expect Cathedral City to continue to make good progress in the current year.
This should be assisted by the introduction of new easy open resealable packaging for Cathedral City this summer and the extension of the range.
10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Operational review continued Consumer Foods Fresh dairy products The Yoplait brands performed strongly in the second half of the year to March 2003 and delivered branded volume growth for the full year of 15%.
This followed a flat performance in the first half, which reflected industrial action at Yoplaits plants in France.
Petits Filous enjoyed another good year, which, combined with continued growth on the Wildlife range, helped Yoplait Dairy Crest to enhance its position as the leading supplier to the childrens sector.
The Weight Watchers range, Yop and Yoplait Best There Is all performed well over the year, resulting in the Yoplait brands achieving their highest ever market share.
Retailer own brand volumes showed a mixed picture in demanding market conditions.
However, margins benefited from the management actions taken last year to reduce the cost base, including the closure of the Basildon plant, with production transferred to other facilities.
The desserts and ice cream operation at Yeovil has shown good growth.
Following completion of the purchase of 50% of the Yoplait business by Paribas Affaires Industrielles, the Yoplait Dairy Crest joint venture agreement has been extended until at least 2012, reinforcing the success of the venture.
Yoplait Dairy Crest recently entered into an arrangement with Horizon Organic Dairies to develop, manufacture and distribute new organic yogurt products in the UK under the Rachels organic brand.
The first product, an organic yogurt multipack, has just been launched and other innovative organic fresh dairy products are expected to follow.
This new relationship is in addition to the agreement between Horizon and Dairy Crest to manufacture and develop organic milk products in the UK.
We anticipate that continued strong volume growth from the Yoplait brands will enable Yoplait Dairy Crest to achieve steady performance improvement in the current year.
With a new contemporary look, YOP, the fast-growing yogurt As sponsor of Major League Yoplait Best There Is!
is positioned drink available in strawberry and Baseballs youth development as the ultimate French dairy raspberry, is the ideal modern programme, Petits Filous Frubes experience and appeals to women product: healthy, refreshing and Pouches come in two delicious who, while enjoying the finer can be consumed on the go.
flavours Strike Out Strawberry things in life, think about health in and Home Run Raspberry.
Top of the class The leading supplier to the childrens sector Share of chilled Share of childrens chilled yogurts and desserts yogurts and desserts market by volume market by volume Other 13% Yoplait Dairy Crest 8% Other 21% Muller 16% Yoplait Dairy Crest 35% ROB 28% Nestle 10% Nestle 28% Muller 33% St Ivel 8% Source: Information Resources 52 w e 20 April 2003 Efficiencies flowing through Capitalising on investment 13 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Operational review continued Consumer Foods Liquid products The year to March 2003 saw the final steps in the restructuring of our liquid products business, following the acquisition of Unigates dairy and cheese business in July 2000.
The 54 million investment programme to create two super dairies at Chadwell Heath and Severnside was completed when Severnside became fully operational towards the end of 2002.
The Severnside facility is unique in the UK dairy industry.
It provides both scale for low cost production and the flexibility, through milk segregation, to produce tailored propositions for our customers.
The plant has a processing capacity of 500 million litres per annum with a highly automated retail liquid milk processing operation.
There is an efficient potted cream processing plant, as well as dedicated facilities for added value products, including organic Launched in January 2002, milk and McDonalds milkshake base and sundae mix.
In addition, Severnside manufactures the Rachels Organic brand is Frijj, our market leading fresh flavoured milk drink.
There is also a balancing butter and now the Number 1 organic fresh skimmed milk powder manufacturing operation.
Dairy Crests investment at Severnside and Chadwell Heath has created two of the UKs largest retail milk dairies, processing milk previously manufactured at six smaller sites.
The Group also has two well-invested regional dairies at Totnes in Devon and Fenstanton in East Anglia.
This has resulted in considerable operating efficiencies and flexibility without adding to overall industry capacity.
Dairy Crest is now well positioned to capitalise on the latest round of industry consolidation.
Trading conditions in the retail liquid milk market remained competitive during the year.
In fresh milk, the Groups sales volumes with the main multiple retailers in March 2003 were in line with those at the end of the previous year.
Pressures in the retailer own brand sector impacted the organic fresh milk business.
Management action has been taken which is now bringing supply more into balance with anticipated demand.
The Rachels brand under licence from Horizon Organic Dairies has shown strong sales growth.
During the year the juice business was affected by an increase in concentrate prices, which we have been recovering progressively in a competitive market place.
Frijj enjoyed another year of strong growth with volumes increasing by 13%.
Frijj continues to be the market leader in the fresh flavoured milk drinks market and it is a key priority to continue to drive Frijj volume and to develop the brand.
We have also made business gains in fresh cream and with McDonalds in our milk shake base business.
Overall profits in our liquid products business have made good progress on the prior year.
Thick, fresh and tasty, Frijj is the UKs Number 1 flavoured We are now capitalising on our investment to develop strong customer relationships, milk brand.
together with further increases in operational efficiencies.
While trading conditions will continue to be competitive, financial returns from our liquid products business are expected to improve and importantly the business will start to generate significant cash flows now that the period of major capital investment has ended.
14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Operational review continued Food Services The Food Services division includes Dairy Crests household milk business and dairy ingredients operations.
It is managed to deliver the profits and cash to invest in the added value and branded elements of the Consumer Foods division.
Turnover decreased by 3% from 525.1 million to 511.3 million.
Operating profit increased by 17% to 35.1 million, reflecting a good performance by our household business and improved trading conditions in our ingredients operations over last year.
The Food Services margin increased from 5.7% to 6.9%.
A commitment to first class service Household The household business has performed well during the year and has made a strong contribution to the Groups profit and cash flows, despite doorstep volumes continuing to decline at an annual rate of around 12%.
The acquisition of small infill dairy businesses has enabled the business to mitigate the impact of the overall market decline, with the result that volumes in our household business have declined by around 6%.
The business has also benefited from the completion of the Unigate integration.
The business continues to be managed to reduce cost to counteract the effect of falling volumes.
First class service initiatives are aimed at minimising this decline and Dairy Crest will continue to seek acquisition opportunities.
The business will again be a major contributor to Group profitability in the current year and continue to be highly cash generative.
Ingredients The performance of the ingredients business was, as expected, ahead of last year, despite commodity prices for skimmed milk powder being at their lowest level for over ten years in the first half of the year.
Results were also adversely impacted in the last quarter of the year by the appreciation of the Euro against Sterling and reductions in the milk supply to this business.
Following the planned closure of our facility at Chard, the manufacture of bulk butter and skimmed milk powder will be consolidated at Severnside, where we will continue to have the ability to balance our milk supply efficiently and to supply our major ingredients customers.
The business will continue to produce added value propositions for leading food manufacturers.
The downsizing of the ingredients business will increase the quality and predictability of the Groups future earnings.
Our milkmen play a significant role, delivering a first class service, in the communities in which we operate.
