Security Paper and Print 2003 2002 change m m m Sales Continuing operations 211.0 226.8 Acquisitions 2.8 213.8 226.8 13.0 Operating profit Continuing operations 30.5 41.1 Acquisitions 0.1 James Hussey 30.4 41.1 10.7 Divisional Managing Director Before exceptional items of 19.9m 2001 2002 7.3m and goodwill amortisation credit of 0.2m 2001 2002 Nil Currency Currency As expected, operating profits in the Currency business were lower than last year.
This reflected the one-off benefit of the euro work in 2001 2002 combined with an unusually large number of new designs in the banknote order book in the first half of 2002 2003, which took longer to prepare than normal repeat orders.
This situation began to unwind in the second half and Currency finished the year strongly, backed by a solid banknote order book offsetting the continued weakness of the banknote paper market.
Once again, cash generation has been a key strength of the business with operating cash flow ahead of operating profits for the second year running.
Banknotes The banknote printing business performed strongly after the slow start to the year and we have again concentrated on achieving a better quality mix of business at higher margins.
With increasing proliferation of colour copying, scanning and printing technologies we continue to develop anticounterfeit solutions such as wide threads and holographic devices for our customers to counter these threats.
We have also continued to focus on a rigorous approach to managing our cost base.
The closure of our Singapore banknote printing factory, announced in March 2002, was completed in the second half as expected, resulting in the loss of 290 jobs.
The consequent reorganisation of our remaining worldwide printing operations now means that we are producing the same volume of banknotes that was previously produced by five plants from our remaining four sites.
The financial benefits of the move, the majority of which will come through in the 2003 2004 financial year, are estimated to have achieved an annualised benefit of 3m.
At the beginning of the current year we completed the acquisition of the Bank of Englands banknote printing operations based at Debden, Essex, for a cash consideration, including acquisition expenses, of 10m.
This followed a decision by the Bank in December 2002 to contract out its banknote printing operations.
At the same time, fide La Rue also signed a supply contract with the Bank to cover its requirement for banknotes for a period of seven years.
We expect the transaction to be earnings enhancing over the seven year term of the contract.
The primary role of Debden will be to continue to supply the Bank of England with its requirements for banknotes, which last year amounted to about one billion banknotes.
As a result, the business will continue to specialise in producing long-run work, although opportunities may exist for Debden to produce some export work.
We will also continue to operate the Gateshead banknote printing factory in the UK as a separate facility, focused, as now, on specialist short-run export work.
16 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 Papermaking As previously announced, we expected the banknote papermaking market to return to historical ordering patterns and volumes.
Consequently, we expected a much stronger year for the papermaking operations.
However, the papermaking market remained weak during 2002 2003.
The timing of the expected return to historical volumes remains difficult to predict.
In March 2003, it was particularly pleasing for our papermaking facility at Overton in the UK, fide La Rues largest manufacturing facility, to achieve ISO 14001 environmental accreditation.
This underlines the considerable progress we have made in improving our environmental management at the site.
Security Products Trading in the Security Products business continues to be weak, and in May 2002, following disappointing results in 2001 2002, we initiated a manufacturing review of the business with a view to delivering considerable operational improvements as well as improving the focus and competitiveness of the business going forward.
In particular, the review identified surplus capacity and also significant duplication of manufacturing capabilities and technologies across its production facilities worldwide.
In response, in September 2002, we announced a reorganisation of the manufacturing base to create specialist production facilities worldwide.
This involved grouping future production around our main product classes and their respective specialist production processes.
To address the overcapacity problem we announced our intention to close our production facility in High Wycombe in the UK, with the loss of about 350 jobs.
In November 2002, we reached agreement with union and employee groups over the closure of the site.
The reorganisation plan, including the closure of High Wycombe, is proceeding to plan and on track for completion in June 2003.
The costs of these actions resulted in an exceptional charge taken in the year of 18.6m, 12.7m of which will be cash.
We also announced in September 2002, that a combination of the reduced manufacturing capacity and associated reductions in overheads in the division should result in ongoing annual savings of approximately 5m.
Since September, we have identified further overhead savings in Security Products and Global Services of 2m.
Most of the 7m total savings will come through in the 2003 2004 financial year.
In September 2002, we announced the acquisition of the entire share capital of House of Questa Ltd, a UK-based, high-security gravure printer, for a total consideration including expenses of 2.9m.
House of Questa employs 75 people and has a single site gravure printing facility based in Byfleet, UK, manufacturing postage stamps, fiscal stamps and motor vehicle tax discs.
We acquired the business to consolidate our existing gravure printing operations, previously based at High Wycombe, to a singlepurpose facility.
The reorganisation plan is now largely complete with the transfer of capital equipment from High Wycombe to Byfleet completed in the second half.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 17 Cash Systems 2003 2002 change m m m Sales Continuing operations 292.8 370.5 Acquisitions 18.1 310.9 370.5 59.6 Operating profit Continuing operations 8.4 36.0 Acquisitions 3.2 Germain Roesch 11.6 36.0 24.4 Divisional Managing Director Before exceptional items of 10.5m 2001 2002 3.8m and goodwill amortisation of 19.3m 2001 2002 2.2m Cash Systems Cash Systems sales from continuing operations were down 21 per cent to 292.8m and operating profits before reorganisation costs of 10.5m and goodwill amortisation of 19.3m were down 27.6m to 8.4m before acquisitions, impacted both by disruption to customer reordering cycles in the eurozone following the euro changeover and generally worsening economic conditions, particularly in Germany and Spain.
Operating margins have also suffered as a result, but cash generation has continued to be a key strength of the business despite the poor result.
During February and March, Germain Roesch led an organisational review of the division in response to the poor performance of Cash Systems last year.
As indicated in February 2003, we are taking action to reduce the divisions cost base and expect about 300 redundancies at a number of key sites, mainly across Europe.
The programme is now well underway and we anticipate that, subject to consultation with employee representatives, this exercise will be substantially completed by the end of the third quarter of 2003 2004.
The majority of the costs associated with these actions have been included in the exceptional charge taken in the 2002 2003 financial year of 10.5m, although some further charges will arise in 2003 2004.
We expect that the benefits of these actions will be felt in the second half of 2003 2004 and will result in annualised cost savings of approximately 7m.
The Board believes that in taking this action, Cash Systems will be better placed to benefit from improving economic conditions whenever they arise, while in the short term, underpinning trading in current market conditions.
Results in the current year are expected to be impacted by the substantial weakening of the US dollar against the Swedish krona, a region in which the division incurs significant manufacturing costs.
During 2002 2003 this effect was largely mitigated by short-term foreign exchange currency hedging arrangements.
Financial Institutions FI In January 2003, Christof Domeisen was appointed to succeed Germain Roesch as Managing Director of the FI business.
Christof was previously with Cap Gemini Ernst & Young, Central Europe, where he led their business in the Financial Services Industry sector in Europe, as well as being chief executive of the operation in Switzerland.
Poor economic conditions in the eurozone markets of the FI business during 2002 2003 had the following effects: nFinancial institutions held back on reordering following the euro changeover in 2002.
Poor economic conditions in many eurozone economies exacerbated this situation, which particularly impacted first half revenues.
18 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 nDespite the expected return to normal ordering patterns by financial institutions in some parts of the eurozone in the second half, there was a sharp deterioration in the trading environments in Germany and Spain at the start of the 2003 calendar year.
In these markets, customers delayed placing orders as well as acceptance of the delivery of orders as they looked to control costs within reduced budgets.
nCost containment measures by financial institutions also delayed the expected evolution of certain key European markets from Teller Cash Dispensers to Teller Cash Recyclers.
The poor performance of FI in the eurozone was, however, partly offset by strong performances elsewhere.
Revenues in the USA were up 20 per cent, with sales of Teller Cash Dispensers particularly strong.
In June 2002, Cash Systems completed the acquisition of the banking automation business of Papelaco, a leading manufacturer of self-service banking technology, based principally in Portugal and Spain.
During the year, sales were in line with our expectations and the business made a positive contribution to operating profit.
Currency Systems Currency Systems performance was a considerable disappointment during 2002 2003 and we are taking action to bring the cost base into line with current market conditions.
During the year the business suffered as a result of political and economic uncertainty in several key markets.
In particular, the impact of 11 September and the uncertainty introduced by the threat of an Iraq war, caused additional delays in both expected customer orders and in customer acceptance of the delivery of fulfilled orders.
Despite the tough market conditions, sales of the 6000 banknote sorter have been encouraging with several new installations completed this year.
During the year, we continued with the integration of the Currency Systems International CSI business, acquired in May 2001.
During the second half, the poor performance of the business was exacerbated by a failure to control costs of manufacturing during the ongoing transfer of production from the UK to the USA and Russia, which eroded margins.
This issue has now been resolved.
However, the markets for CSI's products are likely to remain significantly worse than anticipated at the time of acquisition.
Retail Payment Solutions In its first full year of trading, the Retail Payment Solutions business performed in line with our expectations and we are continuing to develop our approach to the market.
Our initial focus has been on developing solutions for the UK and USA markets and we are currently running trials with several large retail customers.
This is a necessarily slow process for a start-up business, but is progressing well and, once fully developed, the opportunity will be to roll out the solutions to a wider geographic market.
OEM The Original Equipment Manufacture OEM business, which makes dispensing mechanisms for automated teller machines ATMs, had a good year with performance in line with our expectations.
Our joint venture with Itautec Philco had a strong first year of trading.
Under the technology agreement fide La Rue licenses technology to allow Itautec to manufacture fide La Rues NMD 100 cash dispenser platform in Brazil.
Customer Service Despite a difficult year, elsewhere in the division Customer Service activities performed strongly with good underlying sales growth.
We continue to see an increasing number of opportunities to expand our service operations further through bolt-on acquisitions and geographical expansion.
During the year we acquired two small service-based businesses to support this strategy, namely Serbatech Inc. of Canada and Corpo BHX fide Mexico S. A. fide C. V. of Mexico.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 19 Global Services 2003 2002 change m m m Sales Continuing operations 34.7 48.1 Acquisitions 25.2 59.9 48.1 11.8 Operating loss profit Continuing operations 1.4 0.5 Acquisitions 2.6 Peter Cosgrove 4.0 0.5 4.5 Divisional Managing Director Before exceptional items of 2.8m 2001 2002 Nil and goodwill amortisation of 0.5m 2001 2002 0.6m Global Services and Security Products Excluding acquisitions, Global Services revenues from continuing operations declined to 34.7m 2001 2002 48.1m and the division made an operating loss of 1.4m 2001 2002 0.5m profit before exceptional items of 2.8m, goodwill amortisation of 0.5m and acquisitions.
In particular, timing delays on expected projects within the Identity Systems business have impacted revenues this year.
However, good production volumes at our installed base of contracts including Chile, Mexico and New York have partly compensated for the lack of new system sales.
fide La Rue Holographics banknote sector revenues were impacted in the first half by the knock-on effect from production delays caused by new designs in the Currency business banknote order book.
The recent poor performance of several operations has highlighted the need to review the long-term attractiveness of each activity.
In May 2002, we announced the acquisition of 85 per cent of the share capital of Sequoia Voting Systems Inc. one of the largest providers of voting equipment, software, ballot printing and election services in the USA.
Sequoia offers hardware products in all major segments of the North American elections market, including direct recording equipment and optical scan systems.
In October, as expected, the Help America Vote Act 2002 was signed by President Bush, releasing over US$3.9bn of Federal funding plus matching State funding for the upgrading of election systems over the next four years.
We believe that this will now accelerate the evolution of the market to adopting highly secure automated election systems.
In its first year, Sequoia performed in line with our expectations at the time of acquisition although it is currently experiencing intense margin competition in the US elections market.
Despite this, there is currently a high level of enquiries for new election systems and the business has several quotations under consideration.
As indicated in September 2002, it was not possible to convert these enquiries to shipments in the final quarter of the 2002 2003 financial year and consequently the business made a loss of 2.6m excluding exceptional charges of 2.8m.
However, Sequoia has recently been successful with systems sales to two US counties since the start of the new financial year, although at lower than expected margins.
In March 2003, we announced our intention to outsource Sequoias ballot printing operations to a third party and the closure of our Exeter, USA, production facility with the loss of about 60 jobs.
This action was in line with our intentions at the time of acquisition.
As the market increasingly moves to electronic voting systems, we believe it is more cost effective to outsource the production of paper ballots than to continue to sustain the high costs of production ourselves in a declining market.
The costs of this action will result in an exceptional charge of 2.8m and is expected to be completed by the end of May 2003.
20 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003
