operational review Regional Review The year under review was characterised Gross margins improved slightly in the by continuing tough market conditions.
second half of the year and a continued Our customers continued to demonstrate focus on matching the cost base to the a preference for enhancing existing IT current trading environment resulted in systems rather than embarking on new further reductions in overheads of 14% in investments.
Much of our focus has constant currency terms over the year.
therefore been directed to the area of Overall, the Group reported a second half improving customer returns on existing operating loss of US$4.5 million, which is technology.
The difficult trading in line with the loss reported in the first environment was exacerbated by little IT half.
With the exception of Africa, all other innovation and the perception that both regions reported improved operating technology and technical expertise have contributions in the second half of the year.
The Groups revenue performance should be seen in the context of US dollar weakness against the currencies in which we operate.
US dollar revenues declined by 4% year on year and increased sequentially by 7% in the second half of the year.
In constant currency terms, however, revenues declined by 16% year on year and by 7% sequentially in H2 2003.
ANNUAL REPORT 2003 17 operational review Africa $'000 FY2003 FY2002 Turnover 365,428 292,866 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 5,413 20,027 Operating margin 1.5% 6.8% Net operating assets 160,793 78,617 Good revenue growth of 25% in US Several major services-led deals were Notwithstanding the disappointing second dollars masked difficult market conditions won, many outside the core financial half result, the African region remains particularly in the second half of the year.
services and telecommunications markets, Dimension Datas flagship with good The results should be seen in the context traditionally the stronghold of Dimension solutions offerings, substantial market of the 42% appreciation in the average SA Data South Africa, reflecting the presence and long term customer rand foreign exchange rate over the year.
successful penetration into new vertical relationships.
Management changes have In constant currency terms revenue markets.
The outsourcing business, which been made and an aggressive plan to declined by 12% year on year and capitalises on Dimension Datas GSOA return the business to profitability is in sequentially by 17% in the second half of services framework, was significantly place.
Current forecasts indicate that the the year.
extended in 2003. Notable wins included a trends established in the third quarter and US$1.4 million managed services contract in the early part of the fourth quarter have After a solid first half, the performance of with Sappi for the desktop, server and been reversed and Africa is likely to show the African business deteriorated in the LAN switching environments and a five good profits in the current quarter.
Market second half of the year due to lower year US$6.4 million outsourcing and Insite share gains are being driven by focused volumes, particularly in the Application contract with Macsteel International to business units with dedicated sales forces.
Integration and Service Provider provide a locally hosted SAP solution, businesses.
This was exacerbated by the international VPN connectivity as well as a strong appreciation of the SA rand, which hosted calldesk.
impacted margins on dollar-denominated contracts.
Higher overheads also Significant deals were signed with Afrox contributed to the deterioration in Healthcare to provide a range of product, profitability in the second half of the year managed, hosting and security services, although overheads in the second half did and with AngloGold and Metal Industries include items of a non-recurring nature.
Benefit Funds Administrators where Overheads in constant currency terms Teamsource contracts were entered into.
were cut by 7% year on year and A three year network migration and overcapacity in the services business managed services contract was signed drove a 20% reduction in headcount.
Major Internet Solutions achieved a strong telecommunications infrastructure rollouts performance and grew market share in the were won in conjunction with associate corporate Internet services and virtual Plessey from Sentech in South Africa and private network space.
18 DIMENSION DATA Asia $'000 FY2003 FY2002 Turnover 328,725 404,908 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 2,187 16,961 Operating margin 0.7% 4.2% Net operating assets 169,310 283,150 Trading conditions in most countries in Operating performances across the region Following the announcement of a strategic which Datacraft Asia Datacraft operates were mixed.
India continued to move from relationship with EMC, Datacraft launched remained challenging.
Demand from the strength to strength, benefiting from good a range of network storage solutions and enterprise and telecom service provider demand in the financial services sector related services.
The company also sectors was subdued in the face of and for call centre integration services.
launched a set of Customer Interactive continuing economic uncertainties, Japan returned to profitability in H2 2003 Solutions to capitalise on the customer exacerbated by the SARS outbreak that and China is showing signs of recovery contact centre boom in India and was at its height in the third quarter.
with narrowing losses over three straight elsewhere in the region.
In Korea, the restructuring partnership with Microsoft was entered Revenues declined by 19% year on year.
exercise enabled the business to into, as part of the Group initiative, to be Some stability started to emerge in the substantially reduce losses year on year.
one of Microsofts global system fourth quarter resulting in a slowing in the integration partners offering solutions built rate of revenue decline to 3% sequentially Customers responded well to Surveyor around its.
in the second half of the year.
Gross Secure, a vendor-independent security margins came down to 15.7% from 18.3% assessment and risk management service The mood going into 2004 is more in 2002 due largely to a reduction in that adds a consulting layer to Datacrafts optimistic than it was six months ago.
However, actions taken security integration and outsourcing rationalisations are now largely complete to improve utilisation levels combined with offerings.
During the year, over 30 and encouraging signs of improving an easing of pricing pressure on product Surveyor Secure deals were signed, demand emerged in the fourth quarter margins saw margins improve in the thanks to Datacraft's precise methodology based on monthly order rates and a second half of the year.
and partnerships that enable customers to growing backlog.
In 2004, Datacraft will manage diverse network security and remain focused on growing contributions The rationalisations and restructurings that liability exposure.
There were pockets of from Solutions and Services and on were a feature of the period are now good demand for VoIP and OSS BSS building and leveraging off the Cisco largely complete.
Overheads were reduced solutions from the Service Provider partnership and the newly established by 14% and headcount came down by customers.
A highlight of the year was relations with EMC and Microsoft.
Higher gross margins and a 10% winning a 40 month, US$8 million sequential decline in overheads resulted in managed services annuity contract for an improved operating contribution of Citigroup, to provide Uptime maintenance US$2.2 million in the second half of the support services in 15 territories across year compared to breakeven in the first Asia Pacific on a 24 x 7 basis.
The year also saw the sale of highlight was securing phase two of the Datacrafts Cabling business and the contract with State Bank of India SBI, rationalisation of the iCommerce valued at US$29 million, to implement operations, which are now fully integrated SBIs nationwide corporate backbone and into the core Network Integration business.
connect its associate banks, networking An improved balance sheet, a successful branches, ATMs and other electronic focus on working capital management and delivery channels.
strong cash generation are further highlights of the period under review.
ANNUAL REPORT 2003 19 operational review Australia $'000 FY2003 FY2002 Turnover 380,526 364,609 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 12,431 10,188 Operating margin 3.3% 2.8% Net operating assets 69,021 104,505 The Australian business achieved a In a tough year a number of important Strengthening local vendor relationships pleasing improvement in profitability in an foundations for future success were with Microsoft and Cisco resulted in environment characterised by lower established.
In response to changing improved market share.
The impact of corporate and government spending.
market demand and in support of our global initiatives and more effective local Reported US dollar revenues grew by 4% Application Network Solutions vision, engagement with Microsoft and EMC supported by a strong Australian dollar.
In focused investments were made in drove an improved performance from our constant currency terms, revenues Professional Services and in developing Application Integration business.
The declined by 14%, reflecting the overall services designed to ensure early distribution business, Express Data, was market decline as Dimension Data engagement in the customer planning and appointed one of two strategic partners to Australia maintained its leading market deployment lifecycle.
Increasingly strong Cisco where previously there were three, position.
consultative customer relationships were which is expected to translate into market established through engagements with share gains in the new financial year.
In the second half of the year, which is WebCentral and Education Queensland.
seasonally a better period than the first Other customer highlights of the year half, constant currency revenues The Security business, a new initiative, include a three year US$1.3 million IP increased sequentially by 13% on H1 was well received by the market and convergence contract with Lend Lease 2003.
Good growth was achieved in the benefited from a focus on risk and policy Corporation and a three year US$1.6 Network Integration business where a advisory services that led to strong million Uptime and professional services number of large new contracts were downstream technology engagements, contract with the Department of closed and the Platform business including a major deployment with Employment and Workplace Relations.
benefited from good demand for upgrades Australias premier media group, to Microsoft 2003.
New Despite market expectations for slowing strategic IT consulting initiatives created GDP growth in Australia in 2004, Continued focus on leading with valuegood pull-through business across the Dimension Data Australia expects to grow add services saw the gross margin board.
revenues in the new financial year through improve slightly on the prior year.
A sharp increased solutions penetration of our focus on cost containment, mainly through Managed Services performed well in a existing client base.
The focus remains on headcount reductions, resulted in fixed period of significant customer price improving the contribution from overheads coming down by 15% in sensitivity and competitive pressure.
Professional and Managed Services constant currency terms over the year.
Managed Services contracts were signed through more effective alignment of our The result was a pleasing improvement in with Transaction Solutions and Coca-Cola capability against changing customer net operating margins to 3.3% from 2.8% Amatil.
lifecycle requirements, and on trimming in FY2002.
Cash generation improved the cost base.
over the year due to improved profitability and lower capital spending.
20 DIMENSION DATA Continental Europe $'000 FY2003 FY2002 Turnover 382,123 360,774 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 6,220 18,691 Operating margin 1.6% 5.2% Net operating assets 68,445 162,112 The performance of the European The business benefited from a strategy of The economic outlook is improving and business was impacted by ongoing difficult engaging key accounts with specific some pricing stability is apparent as we market conditions and pressure on IT solution offerings.
Bids with a number of enter the new financial year.
Reported revenues increased large, multinational customers, were aided visibility remains short and spending in the by 6% over the year, benefiting from the by streamlined processes and international German market is still on hold, elsewhere weakness of the US dollar.
A three year, multi million the demand cycle appears to have currency terms revenues declined by 12% dollar, multi country security and Uptime bottomed.
We expect to capitalise on the year on year and sequentially by 9% in the contract was signed with Airbus.
A focused vertical sales engagement model second half of the year.
successful focus on the pharmaceuticals and enhanced ties with partners such as industry resulted in a three year, US$4 Microsoft and EMC in the new financial Pressure on margins in the network million contract with Merck KG for product year.
The business is operationally in integration business was in part procurement and related services, and a better shape and there is good scope to compensated for by penetration into the multi year framework agreement with the improve the profitability of our biggest new growth sectors of security, customer European Agency for the Evaluation of revenue contributor, Germany.
interactive solutions and managed Medicinal Products, for product services, as well as good traction in procurement, professional and support demand for professional services.
In the aeronautical sector we won a three year, US$1.2 million contract Further progress was made in with EADS Astrium to provide a VPN streamlining the European business, managed solution across France, Germany particularly in the second half of the year and the UK.
when overheads came down sequentially by 12%.
Comprehensive turnaround plans were implemented during the year in both Germany and France to drive revenue growth, improve our value proposition and reduce costs.
A new CEO has been appointed in Germany and a new French management team drove increased sales in H2 2003, reaping the benefits of a better customer engagement strategy.
The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Italy were the strongest performers.
ANNUAL REPORT 2003 21 operational review United Kingdom $'000 FY2003 FY2002 Turnover 205,918 193,652 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 11,010 8,644 Operating margin 5.3% 4.5% Net operating assets 39,303 111,291 The UK business made excellent progress The UKs market offerings were extended Entering the new financial year there is in a troubled integrator market in over the year to include Content evidence of an increasing propensity for transitioning to a more focused and Management, Voice Activated Solutions, customers to plan new projects but as yet, profitable business model.
Demand for IT Storage and IPCC.
We won new business this is not translating into orders.
Whilst services remained under pressure during from a large UK mobile operator in the we are not anticipating a strong pick up in the period under review, and whilst US Content Management and Voice Activated demand, geographic expansion into dollar revenues increased by 6% year on Solutions space and won a US$7 million Northern England and Scotland is year, in constant currency terms they Cisco product, services and IPCC solution expected to drive revenue growth in 2004. declined by 2%.
Improved We also see opportunities in targeting delivery capabilities resulted in better medium-sized enterprise customers and in The performance of the UK business profitability in the Advanced Infrastructure winning government business.
Vendor benefited from changes implemented in business where building service solution relationships are strong and opportunities the prior period.
A new CEO and contracts were won from Lime Street are emerging to target customers in joint management team improved focus and Development, Warwick University and engagements.
The investment made in succeeded in growing Managed and Swiss Re.
enhancing offerings in the areas of Professional Services revenue by 24% Storage, Security, IPC IPT and Call Centre year on year.
Dimension Datas market The Merchants Group, the UKs managed Integration is also expected to bear fruit.
position and delivery capabilities were call centre business, was restructured enhanced following a realignment of the during the period under review and skills base towards skills able to sell and continues to provide global outsourcing deliver solutions.
Good progress was solutions through call centres in Scotland, made in building long term relationships Ireland, England and South Africa.
with blue chip customers, and experience Significant success was achieved in gained in winning and delivering on global onshore, nearshore and offshore solutions accounts proved invaluable in tendering and several large contracts, including for further global contracts.
deals with Unilever and Edexcel, that will benefit 2004 revenues were awarded late Significant progress was made in reducing in the year.
overheads, which came down by 21% in constant currency terms over the year.
This resulted in a sharp improvement in profitability over the prior year and operating margins reaching 6.9% in the second half of the year.
22 DIMENSION DATA USA $'000 FY2003 FY2002 Turnover 346,051 503,753 Operating loss before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 17,058 9,021 Operating margin 4.9 % 1.8 % Net operating assets 32,153 120,309 Continuing difficult trading conditions for An aggressive turnaround plan was Our market offerings evolved to include most of the year in the US resulted in a implemented during the year that focused several key initiatives.
Our leasing offering 31% decline in revenue and an operating on reversing declining revenues, matching provides clients with the opportunity to loss for the period.
The decline in costs to market conditions and returning lease software, services and maintenance revenues reflected volume contractions in the business to profitability.
Dimension Datas both the Network Integration and came down by 36% year on year and Health Alert Network Solution is gaining Application Integration businesses.
The US traction and five states, in addition to the business exited the year profitable at the City of New York Department of Health The performance of the Network operating profit level in the month of and Mental Hygiene, have selected the Integration business was affected in the September.
portal solution to help combat bioNorth East by a sharp decline in IT terrorism and the spread of infectious spending from our primary financial The US region benefited from the Groups diseases.
We achieved further penetration services customer base.
A significant global capabilities and was able to win of the storage market along with closer contributing factor to the decline in several new Fortune 500 customers.
A ties with EMC, and numerous wins in revenues was the loss of a technology highlight of the year was the signing of a IPT IPCC made us one of Ciscos top deployment contract, which contributed three year, multi million dollar, global service providers.
Our digital publishing US$80 million in the previous financial contract with a leading global courier offering, which was previously marketed to year.
Second half performances in our company to supply technology and related the publishing industry and sold to such businesses in the South East and mid professional services in 231 countries.
organisations as Harvard Business School Atlantic improved, and both businesses Publishing, will be packaged and offered broke even.
The Network Integration business was across verticals in the new financial year.
awarded a five year, US$10 million WAN Gross margins continued to come under Management contract by the The focus in the new financial year will be pressure over the year, particularly in the Administrative Office of the United States on increasing revenues through driving Application Integration business due to the Courts under Dimension Data's contract improved market penetration in our core structural degradation of this market, the with the US General Services Network Integration business, increased shift to offshore resources, and an Administration.
In the Application sales focus in growth areas such as oversupply of technical resources.
Integration business we won contracts Storage, Security and IPCC, and Utilisation levels in Managed Services with the likes of Volkswagen to design the leveraging off enhanced vendor improved following good demand and the next generation of VW.
com and with relationships with Cisco, EMC and business was profitable from June onward.
another global automotive company to Microsoft.
Trading in the third quarter was design, develop, host, deploy and maintain poor but there was an improvement in a vehicle inspection website.
demand in the fourth quarter.
Technology pricing appears to have bottomed in the second half of the year and improved scale and utilisation should underpin services margins.
