Operating Review Packaging 1 Financial Highlights Return on Turnover Operating profit capital employed 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m % % Corrugated and Paper 747.0 720.5 53.1 51.2 10.6 10.0 Plastic Packaging 195.0 171.9 14.7 12.7 11.5 12.2 Packaging 942.0 892.4 67.8 63.9 10.7 10.4 2002 figures are restated see note 1 to the accounts.
Before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles.
8 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Operating Review Packaging Corrugated and Paper Total Packaging sales increased by 6% to case materials CCM into the UK in 942.0 million.
Operating profit before calendar year 2002 were flat year-on-year.
exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles advanced by 6% to 67.8 million There was considerable price turbulence and the operating margin remained at throughout the corrugated and paper supply 7.2%.
Return on capital employed rose pipeline during 2002 03 due to volatility in from 10.4% to 10.7%.
the price of recovered paper, the principal raw material for CCM.
Recovered paper Corrugated and Paper prices rose sharply through the first half of Sales in the Corrugated and Paper segment calendar year 2002, peaking in the second increased by 4% to 747.0 million.
Excluding quarter, principally due to strong demand the effect of acquisitions, principally the from Asia where there has been substantial former Danisco plants acquired in September investment in recycled paper manufacturing.
Operating profit Prices subsequently fell back during the before exceptional items and amortisation autumn, although not to their 2001 average of intangibles grew by 4% to 53.1 million level, and then increased again in the early with lower profits in paper being more months of 2003.
CCM prices rose during the than compensated for by higher profits second quarter of calendar year 2002, driven in corrugated.
Operating margin was by the increase in recovered paper prices, unchanged at 7.1% while return on capital but then softened towards the end of 2002. employed rose from 10.0% to 10.6%.
The movement in CCM prices necessitated an increase in corrugated box prices in Industry statistics for calendar year 2002 late summer and early autumn 2002 but show that overall volume demand for weakening economic conditions led to box corrugated board in Europe increased by prices coming under pressure from January 2.7%.
However, demand in the Groups 2003 onwards.
major markets remained weak, with the UK experiencing a marginal decline of 0.2% and These sharp price movements resulted in France being down by 2.3%, after falls of margins being squeezed in both our paper and 3.7% and 1.9%, respectively, in the previous corrugated operations at various times during year.
Demand was significantly stronger in the year.
However, by managing the adjustment the Groups two principal development of prices across the segment at appropriate markets, Italy and Poland, which grew by times, maintaining tight cost controls and 3.3% and 20.8%, respectively.
In the first effecting other operational improvements we quarter of calendar year 2003, demand in were able to raise the overall result.
the UK and France was flat, while Italy and Source: European Federation of Poland continued to grow, but at lower rates Corrugated Board Manufacturers than in 2002.
Total imports of corrugated 2 3 Operational focus Close attention to operational performance contributed to raising the Corrugated and Paper result 1 Recovered paper is fed into Kemsley mills recycling system, round the clock, throughout the year, to keep the paper machines running.
2 Monitoring and control of the recycling of recovered paper in the stock preparation system is critical to producing high quality paper.
3 Films are checked for accurate alignment before printing at the Lockerbie speciality packaging factory.
9 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Operating Review Packaging Corrugated and Paper DS Smith Packaging plant is now complete and is being focused The Groups UK corrugated division, on developing new higher added value DS Smith Packaging, continued to improve market opportunities.
The Tri-Wall heavy its profits through better operational duty business maintained profits despite efficiency and increasing focus on higher continuing to suffer from the decline in UK added value products.
The former Danisco manufacturing industry: recent investment plants, acquired in September 2001, is enabling it to increase productivity and contributed to the increased profitability service its markets more efficiently.
and enabled the division to gain market share.
This was achieved despite flat market Despite particularly difficult trading conditions, demand, industry over-capacity in the the sheet feeder plants, which produce UK and margins being squeezed by higher corrugated sheet board, and the sheet plants, paper prices for part of the year.
which convert board into boxes, increased DS Smith Packaging profits, principally through higher Profits in the conventional integrated plants productivity and service levels.
continued to improve benefited from investment made in previous its profits through years, higher productivity and initiatives to raise service levels.
The four plants are better operational increasingly being operated as a single business efficiency and with an integrated IT system which helps them optimise use of their manufacturing, increasing focus on sales and design capabilities for servicing a higher added value mix of local and national accounts.
products The speciality operations increased profitability through their focus on innovation, high levels Bob McLellan Chief Executive, DS Smith Packaging of product differentiation and increased efficiency.
The investment in new printing and converting facilities at the Lockerbie 1 2 Adding value DS Smith Packaging is developing its business in higher margin segments 1 The Group has a leading position in microflute corrugated packaging, which is growing rapidly as it combines light weight with good protection and strength.
Transit packaging can also be readily used as attractive display packaging.
2 The latest printing technology, recently installed at Lockerbie, requires skilled operator monitoring and produces higher added value products.
10 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Operating Review Packaging Corrugated and Paper Kaysersberg Packaging Although sales advanced at the Turkish The Groups continental European business and the efficiency of the operations packaging division, Kaysersberg Packaging, improved, poor market prices and the achieved a solid result.
The good performances countrys difficult economic environment have in the French, Polish and Italian corrugated combined to cause the business to be in loss.
units were offset by poorer results in the Action is being taken to raise performance.
French paper mills and losses in Turkey.
The Polish business advanced its sales The growing trend amongst manufacturing and profits strongly, gaining share in companies to relocate from France a fast growing market and improving its contributed to the French market being productivity.
In addition to its conventional particularly weak.
Lower activity levels and corrugated business, it is developing positions periods of margin squeeze, due to higher in litho-laminated and heavy duty products.
Kaysersberg recovered paper prices, affected results at Commercial links have been established into the French paper mills.
However, margins in the Czech Republic and Slovakia to develop Packaging achieved the French corrugated operations benefited sales in those markets.
a solid result from good cost control and targeting higher added value customer and market segments.
Jean-Paul Loison Increased operating flexibility enabled the Chief Executive, Kaysersberg Packaging businesses to adjust more rapidly to changing market circumstances.
In February 2003, the Sorepa waste collection business, in which DS Smith held a 60% share, was sold.
In Italy, where the corrugated market continued to grow relatively strongly, Toscana Ondulati increased its profits and market share.
It benefited from its new lightweight corrugated factory, opened at Lari in March 2002, which is focused on the food and ceramics industries and has built a leading position in the European pizza box market.
1 2 Geographic growth Kaysersberg Packaging is successfully enlarging its business in Italy and Eastern Europe 1 Toscana Ondulatis new corrugated factory at Lari in Tuscany, Italy, is principally focused on lightweight printed packaging.
2 The Lari factory is a leading supplier of pizza boxes across Europe.
11 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Operating Review Packaging Corrugated and Paper St Regis Paper Company The Severnside collection and recycling St Regis margins were adversely affected operation performed well in the turbulent by higher recovered paper prices resulting market for recovered paper, helped by lower in lower profits.
However, the profit was costs and higher efficiencies.
It processed better than expected due to a combination a record quantity of material and invested of slightly higher sales volumes and efficiency further in its infrastructure with the improvements.
Despite the generally weak acquisition of two additional collection market conditions, record output levels were depots, one since the year end.
achieved at a number of mills.
Export sales and the divisions competitiveness in the UK The value of Packaging Recovery Notes market were assisted towards the end of the PRNs, which are issued as evidence financial year by the strengthening of the that packaging has been reprocessed in euro against sterling.
compliance with the UK Packaging Waste The profit was better Regulations, fell substantially towards The Kemsley paper mill performed well the end of 2002.
This was partly due to than expected due due to enhanced process control, improved weaker demand for PRNs following the to a combination of operational stability and further advances governments decision not to increase in product quality.
Recent investment to recycling targets for 2003, as well as the slightly higher sales raise production performance on lightweight unexpectedly high number of wood PRNs volumes and efficiency products at Kemsley and Taplow mills further issued, which is the subject of an ongoing strengthened the divisions capability to satisfy investigation by the Environment Agency.
improvements that segment of the market.
Sudbrook mill benefited from recent investment and the Don Coates Chief Executive, St Regis Paper withdrawal from the market of a competitor in its principal product, semi-chemical fluting paper.
A new warehouse is under construction at Kemsley that will virtually eliminate use of third party warehousing, thereby significantly reducing costs.
In February 2003, the Western Board business, which manufactures and converts fibreboard, and was peripheral to St Regis main business, was sold.
1 2 Process improvement Kemsley mill achieved record annual output 1 A new 0.7 million chemical analysis suite enables the production process to be continuously monitored and controlled: the benefits have been increased process stability and substantial savings in chemical usage.
2 Improved process control results in faster running speeds on lightweight paper and ensures good product quality levels.
12 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Operating Review Packaging Plastic Packaging Plastic Packaging demand from the dairy industry, due to the DS Smith Plastics continued its expansion drought in the region, and disruption during through both organic growth and acquisitions the transfer of manufacturing to a new site in with sales increasing by 13% to 195.0 million.
Since the year end, the Group has Despite margins being adversely affected acquired the remaining 50% shareholding by higher polymer prices in the latter part of in this business to strengthen its base in the the year, operating profit before exceptional Asia-Pacific region.
Worldwide Dispensers items and amortisation of intangibles injection moulded taps operations in the UK advanced by 16% to 14.7 million helped and USA are being increasingly run on an by increased focus on higher added value integrated basis and continued to grow well products and improved operating efficiencies.
with strong demand for taps used in detergent Operating margin increased from 7.4% to and bag-in-box packaging.
Operational 7.5% while return on capital employed fell performance and product quality have been DS Smith Plastics from 12.2% to 11.5%, primarily as a result of enhanced by recent investment in automated integration costs and higher capital employed assembly and testing.
continued its arising from acquisitions.
expansion through Sales and profits in industrial returnable The division strengthened further its global transit packaging RTP products were both organic growth position in the growing liquid packaging relatively flat due to the European economic and acquisitions and dispensing market.
However, the Groups position Zewathener GmbH, one of Europes leading in RTP was strengthened by its increasingly Adrian Whitfield manufacturers of bag-in-box packaging, was pan-European approach to the market.
Chief Executive, DS Smith Plastics acquired and its integration with Rapaks In extruded products, both custom-made existing bag-in-box operations is progressing converted products and semi-finished solid on schedule.
Rapaks European operations in polypropylene and polycarbonate sheet grew the UK and Germany benefited from strong well.
However, sales were lower in moulded growth in wine bags, particularly in France products, such as tailor-made containers for and Eastern Europe, and increasing demand the automotive industry, where the market is from the dairy industry.
Progress in the USA project-driven.
Injection moulded crates are was principally attributable to sales growth now being produced in four countries and into the beverage sector, although the slowrelatively strong demand in the Dominican down in the fast food market during the Iraq Republic, Spain and Poland offset weaker war held back demand towards the end of demand in Belgium.
Rapaks Australasian joint venture was adversely affected by lower 1 2 New markets DS Smith Plastics is opening up new areas of business 1 A five litre, continuously pressurised, draft beer keg, developed for Interbrew, uses products from four Group businesses.
Recently launched in Tesco stores, with an encouraging initial consumer reaction, it incorporates innovative tap and bag technology that ensures optimal dispensing of the beer for 28 days after opening.
2 Plastic RTP is being increasingly adopted for beverage cans.
A moulded pallet with polypropylene layer pads and top sheet carry individual barcoded identification for improved logistics.
13 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
