Recorded Music Operating Review Alain Levy Chairman and CEO EMI Recorded Music The global music market is undergoing a shift in its While we recognise that, in the long term, sales growth traditional shape and structure that has far-reaching is an important objective, the year ended 31 March implications for the way the industry has been 2003 was clearly one during which we repositioned accustomed to do business.
EMI Recorded Music on profitable foundations, and its performance did improve markedly.
Operating profit EMI Recorded Music entered the financial year with increased 81% to 150.5m 150.1m at constant a commitment to changing fundamentally the way currency, more than doubling operating margins it operates.
This initially involved reducing overheads, to 8.5% compared with 4.1% last year.
including 1,900 jobs, to generate nearly 100m in annualised fixed cost savings.
This was a necessary This margin increase is not simply the result of cutting process in order to create a structure that is both scaled the cost base.
In the year just ended, we pursued to the new size of the market and flexible enough to an aggressive policy of refocusing Recorded Music take advantage of new opportunities that arise or on its core business by streamlining the artist roster are developed.
and exiting unprofitable operations and costly joint ventures.
This restructuring has contributed to an operating profit EBITA uplift of over 80%, while at the same time having The improvement also demonstrates the importance some short-term negative impact on revenues.
In a year of concentrating on profitable, sustainable sales from where the market fell 8.7%, EMI Recorded Musics artists with long-term potential.
EMI had considerable turnover decreased 12.6% 10.2% in constant currency global success with such artists, including the terms to 1,774.2m.
This decrease is partly the result phenomenal debut album from Norah Jones, Come of general market forces, most notably a significant Away With Me, which has now sold 13m copies: increase in both digital and physical piracy.
It was also the excellent second album A Rush Of Blood To The driven by the disruption to day-to-day operations Head from UK band Coldplay and Robbie Williams caused by the extensive restructuring process, Escapology, both now nearing 6m copies: and the particularly in Continental Europe and at Virgin America, definitive greatest hits from the Rolling Stones, now as well as by the lower than expected performance over 5m copies of a double album.
We also had excellent of some local repertoire releases in Japan.
regional successes from artists such as Utada Hikaru, Renaud and Herbert Grnemeyer, whose album Mensch sold over 3m copies to become the highest selling German language album ever.
9 In the year under review, EMI Recorded Music began building the foundations for the music company it aims to become.
There is more interest in, and consumption of, music than ever before, and there is a tremendous opportunity ahead to legitimise and capitalise on this demand.
10 45th Grammy Award Winners Record of the year Best rock performance by Best traditional tropical Norah Jones a duo or group with vocal Latin album Dont Know Why Coldplay Bebo Valdes with Israel Cachao Album of the year In My Place Lopez & Carlos Patato Valdes Norah Jones Best alternative music album El Arte del Sabor Come Away With Me Coldplay Best soul gospel album Song of the year A Rush Of Blood To The Head The Blind Boys of Alabama Norah Jones Best engineered album, Higher Ground Dont Know Why non-classical Best new age album Best new artist Come Away With Me Eric Tingstad & Nancy Rumbel Norah Jones Producer of the year, Acoustic Garden Best female pop vocal non-classical Norah Jones Arif Mardin Come Away With Me Come Away With Me Best pop vocal album Best dance recording Norah Jones Dirty Vegas Come Away With Me Days Go By Recorded Music Turnover Recorded Music Operating Profit m m 2,282.0 2,032.5 227.5 2,029.4 1,774.2 195.1 150.5 83.1 2000 2001 2002 2003 2000 2001 2002 2003 11 EMI Market Share By region value % North UK & Continental Japan Asia Latin Australasia Total America Ireland Europe ex.
After five consecutive years of losses, turned in a somewhat disappointing result as certain the new management team has delivered a return significant local repertoire releases, particularly in the to profitability and a margin increase of more than 12 fourth quarter, did not perform as well as expected.
While market share fell significantly Despite tough market conditions, we remain confident in the first half, there was a gradual increase over the in the quality of our team in Japan and their ability to second half, with Norah Jones eight Grammy awards deliver future successes.
Asia The changes made at Capitol have delivered initial Asia, outside of Japan, was another great success, successes from artists including debut albums from turning in its first profit in a number of years.
EMI is The Vines and, more recently, Lisa Marie Presley.
pursuing a very aggressive strategy to improve both Virgin is now beginning to rebuild its roster and EMI market share and profit in this region.
This includes is increasingly confident of generating US-signed artists a significant push into China, illustrated by substantial for worldwide exploitation, while recognising that investment in local repertoire, which offers considerable progress will be gradual in this very competitive market.
UK Latin America The UK had yet another impressive year and continues Results in Latin America were mixed.
There were to be a major source of repertoire both for local and significant setbacks in Mexico resulting from piracy international exploitation, as well as a standard of and poor local management performance.
This excellence in extracting value from catalogue.
management is in the process of being replaced.
EMI also closed its Venezuelan operations because Continental Europe of the severe economic problems in that country.
Continental Europe underwent the most comprehensive At the same time, however, the regions most important restructuring of all territories that took longer than market, Brazil, returned to profitability and there was anticipated to complete.
Nonetheless, it remains a highly considerable progress in the growing US Latin market.
profitable business, and had significant success with a number of local repertoire releases, including albums from Renaud in France and Herbert Grnemeyer in Germany.
With the restructuring now complete, we expect to make progress at all levels.
13 In recent months we have started to see a shift in the attitudes of governments as to the seriousness of the piracy situation and are starting to witness their willingness to confront the problem.
Piracy Outlook Beyond improving immediate profitability, containing In the year under review, EMI Recorded Music began piracy has become another major priority for EMI.
building the foundations for the music company it aims During the year, EMI Recorded Music created a global to become, operating under principles that focus on anti-piracy team.
Overall we have allocated substantial profitable sales growth and long-term artist management time to lobbying governments to enact development.
There is more interest in, and consumption and enforce stronger legal penalties, and to identifying of, music than ever before, and there is a tremendous technologies and establishing procedures that protect opportunity ahead to legitimise and capitalise on our music.
The group is determined to contain the sales this demand.
erosion caused by physical counterfeiting, illegal file sharing and CD burning.
Looking ahead to the current financial year, the markets are likely to remain challenging.
However, we In recent months we have started to see a shift in the are confident of being able to face the issues, both in attitudes of governments as to the seriousness of the terms of supplying high-quality music, for which there situation and are starting to witness their willingness is growing demand, and in maximising the revenue EMI to confront the problem.
Recorded Music generates from this music.
On this basis, we expect to improve market share.
Piracy containment is one important part of the new environment.
It is, however, clear that consumers want to access music legally via the net and we are making considerable efforts and progress in turning this into reality.
EMIs catalogue is very widely available in digital delivery services and the group has taken a leadership position in offering more of our content on the net.
EMI is also actively pursuing opportunities offered by the digital world such as ring tunes and video distribution as well as gaining further insight into music consumers behaviour.
14 Pink Music Publishing EMI Music Publishing Top 20 Writers 2002 03 Anders Bagge Sting Queen Sean Paul Stargate Alan Jackson Clif Magness White Stripes Ms Dynamite Guy Chambers Doves Pink Blur Enrique Iglesias Good Charlotte Pharrell Williams Norah Jones Nirvana Matchbox Twenty Sum 41
