OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED overall a network of operations at 17 airports.
As well as car park management services, bring much greater benefits to passengers and We are also able to provide a full range of Meteor also operates a security division local communities that only an enlarged and cargo services with operations at Gatwick and which now employs over 100 staff, providing longer franchise can offer.
As part of Thames Stansted, and our joint venture operation with concierge and reception management services, Trains on-going programme of investment in Virgin Atlantic at Heathrow.
Our aviance trade as well as mobile and static guarding in retail, the current franchise, 1.2million has been alliance includes service partners in Europe and office and commercial environments.
invested in 52 extra on-train and security staff, North America, which enables us to offer our specifically to target fraudulent travel.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY services internationally to customers wanting AVIATION SERVICES The Go-Ahead Group continues in its aim to rationalise the number of ground handling The past year has once again been particularly to be one of the UKs most environmentally service providers they use.
challenging in the aviation industry, with many and socially responsible providers of transport major airlines reflecting the difficulties of the Over the past year we have continued to services.
Being part of the solution as current market and posting record losses.
acquire new business and are particularly opposed to being part of the problem drives Although many of the American carriers pleased to have been awarded the Air India Go-Ahead to seek further solutions to the 42,757,064 have filed for Chapter 11 protection from contract at Heathrow.
Other new customers congestion, pollution and social exclusion issues bankruptcy, they are now expecting to emerge across our network included LOT Polish, faced by transport operators and users on a passengers handled by aviance last year from this later in 2003 or Spring 2004.
Bmi Baby, Austrian, Transavia, Flyjet and Zoom.
The general economic downturn in the sector Whilst we expect the present market to remain Corporate responsibility is about meeting has been exacerbated by the uncertainties challenging, with possible further consolidation the challenges of improving safety, reducing leading up to and through the Iraq conflict and amongst airlines, we also expect it to provide our impact on the environment, growing our the unexpected problems caused by the SARS opportunities with many major carriers looking business, increasing the use of public transport epidemic in Asia.
This affected the relatively to outsource non-core activities.
Also, a calmer and contributing to the communities in which strong South East Asian carriers who international environment should see a return we operate.
experienced a rapid decline in demand, leading to growth after the particular difficulties of the All new buses purchased by Go-Ahead meet to withdrawal of capacity and cuts in flying past two years.
In the past year alone aircraft the current EU standards for diesel engines, programmes, particularly in April and May.
turnarounds carried out by aviance have allow disabled access, come with Continuously increased to almost 240,000 while cargo In contrast, the low cost operators continue Regenerating Traps CRTs fitted and operate volumes have increased to over 300,000 tonnes.
As an example, Flybe, an aviance on Ultra Low Sulphur Diesel ULSD.
Such customer, has expanded its operations at PARKING specifications help Go-Ahead to provide one Southampton airport, with passenger numbers Meteor, Go-Aheads parking management of the most environmentally friendly bus fleets up by more than 60% on last year.
However, operation, has continued to grow since joining in the UK.
the low cost sector has seen further the group, and it recently won a five-year car Whilst Go-Ahead has less direct influence consolidation this year with Ryanairs acquisition park management contract at Newcastle over environmental and social impacts in our of BUZZ.
This has resulted in the loss of the International Airport, its first at a non-BAA other divisions, we do work in partnership BUZZ contract, as their ground handling needs operated airport.
Meteor continues to operate, with Network Rail, Airport Authorities, vehicle have been transferred to the Ryanair operation on behalf of BAA, over 40,000 car parking manufacturers and other interested parties to which aviance does not service.
spaces at Heathrow, Stansted, Edinburgh and mitigate, wherever possible, such impacts, whilst Southampton through the innovative brands ensuring that the internal and external systems The effect on all airlines of this difficult Pink Elephant, Park 1 and eparking.
in place are as environmentally and socially economic climate has been a short-term Further technology developments of responsible as possible.
focus on ground handling rates, keeping them automated telephony and Internet-based extremely competitive and under pressure.
We publish an annual Environmental & Social ticketless booking systems have contributed Our response to this has been the Report that contains details of the wide range to enhanced service provision for Meteors implementation of a change programme of initiatives in place to meet our corporate airport customers.
started last year with the objective of responsibilities.
This report has been recognised reducing costs in all areas and raising the At Stansted, where there has been continued as an example of best practice, winning the productivity and efficiency of our operations.
growth in air passengers, Meteor has invested Institute of Logistics and Transports There has been good progress at several in fleet renewal, including the provision of Environmental Award 2002 and taking the airports this year with more to be done articulated buses, to improve the efficiency runner-up spot in the Bus Industry Awards over the next 12 months to bring every site of its landside passenger transfer operation.
The latest up to new more efficient standards.
To aid Meteor has also successfully retained a five-year copy of the report can be requested from implementation, we are pleased to have contract to exclusively operate all airside the company or downloaded via our web site now brought together the various unions passenger movements.
representing the majority of our workforce One of the factors behind the decision to Further information on Go-Ahead and its subsidiary into a single joint negotiating group in order acquire Meteor in 2002 was the potential companies can be found on our web site which also contains to carry discussions forward.
for integration opportunities with our existing Please visit www.
aviance participated in the Governments bus, rail and aviation support service divisions.
consultation on The Future Development of Whilst integration possibilities with our bus Air Transport in the United Kingdom.
Despite operations exist through combined Park & the unprecedented turbulence in the current Ride management services, Meteor now Passengers handled by aviance millions Aircraft movements handled by aviance thousands market, the consultation process clearly oversees car park management at Thameslink identified the expectation that aviation would and Thames Trains stations.
Significant investment continue to grow strongly in the years ahead.
has been made in upgrading parking equipment This in turn will put pressure on present and technology to improve the service offered infrastructure capacity, particularly in the South to users, as well as enhancing car park revenue East, but will also have positive implications for management at all stations involved.
growth at the many regional airports in the UK.
In total, we now manage around 57,000 This growth is not just expected in passenger parking spaces across all operations.
When traffic, but also in cargo with 70% of tonnage Meteor takes over the management of South already carried by passenger aircraft.
Centrals station car parks later this year, a total aviance is well placed in the market to service of 66,000 spaces will be managed, making this growth in the years ahead, with established Meteor the third largest company in the operations at all four London locations, and parking management sector.
2000 2001 2002 2003 2000 2001 2002 2003 12 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 11 11 42 43 83 78 446 477 DIRECTORS AND ADVISORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS SIR PATRICK BROWN 63 joined the board in 1999 as a nonThe company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board has adopted a group board procedures manual which CHRISTOPHER MOYES 54 is deputy chief executive.
He has been executive director, becoming non-executive chairman in 2002.
He The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good was prepared in response to the combined code.
It includes formal a board member of Go-Ahead since 1986 and was involved in the is also a non-executive director of Arlington Securities plc and corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of procedures for the working of the board and its committees, the timely management buy-out of that business in 1987.
Earlier he held a variety Northumbrian Water Group plc.
He spent 10 years in industry and corporate governance are applied to the company and the companys provision of appropriate information to directors, standards of conduct, of management posts with the National Bus Company.
A graduate management consultancy before joining the Civil Service.
He was compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the and the procedures for directors to take independent professional engineer, he is also a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Transport permanent secretary of the Department of Transport DoT from Combined Code prepared by the Committee on Corporate advice, if necessary at the groups expense.
and was a member of its UK Council 1990-1995.
Involved in privatisation in the DoT during the 1980s, Governance chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel.
Confederation of Passenger Transport CPT he is chairman of CPT The board has appointed the following committees to deal with he then moved to the Department of the Environment DoE to subsidiary Transfed, the former National Training Organisation for the STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTORS ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE specific aspects of the groups affairs: manage the privatisation of the water industry in England and Wales.
industry and of Go-Skills, its prospective Sector Skills Council.
He is PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE AUDIT COMMITTEE In 1990 91 he was second permanent secretary in the DoE before also chairman of council at the University of Durham.
The company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out The audit committee was chaired by Professor Sir Frederick Holliday returning to the DoT.
CHRISTOPHER COLLINS 63 is a non-executive director and joined in Section 1 of the Combined Code with the following exceptions: until 17 October 2002, when Sir Patrick Brown was appointed as the board in September 1999.
He is chairman of Hanson PLC, having MARTIN BALLINGER 59 is chief executive.
He has headed up the Combined Code Reference chairman.
The committee comprises all the non-executive directors, previously been executive vice-chairman 1995-97 and corporate Go-Ahead management team since 1982 through deregulation 1986, and meets no less than twice annually.
2.1 In the boards opinion, its size does not justify the appointment development director 1991 to 1995.
He is also a non-executive the management buy-out 1987 and a successful placing on the for reporting by the groups external and internal auditors.
Meetings of a formally recognised senior independent non-executive director.
chairman of Forth Ports PLC and a non-executive director of London market in 1994.
Qualified as an accountant in 1968, he held are also attended, by invitation, by the chief executive.
It also receives Furthermore, both of the independent non-executive directors are well Old Mutual plc and Alfred McAlpine PLC.
He is a qualified various accounting posts before joining the National Bus Company and reviews reports from management relating to the annual and half known to investors and financial professionals in the UK.
in 1972. year profit figures and statements and monitors the controls which are should feel free to approach either of them in the event that their RUPERT PENNANT-REA 55 is a non-executive director and joined in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported IAN BUTCHER 52 is group finance director and company secretary.
contacts with the chairman and executives are deemed inadequate.
He has been editor of The Economist to the shareholders.
It also advises the board on the appointment of He is a chartered accountant and joined the management team of A.
5.1 Because of the small size of the board, it has not been and deputy governor of the Bank of England.
He is chairman of The external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and nonGo-Ahead in 1996.
Prior to this he spent 12 years, up to senior considered appropriate to appoint a nominations committee, the Stationery Office, Plantation & General Investments and Electra audit work.
The audit committee keeps under review the cost management level, with KPMG, including overseas, gaining extensive board as a whole being responsible for approving new appointments.
effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external experience of corporate finance, insolvency and audit.
This was Hitherto, recruitment of directors has been undertaken through ad and internal auditors.
The committee has unrestricted access to the followed by 11 years in a broad range of industries at group finance The audit committee consists of Sir Patrick Brown, Christopher Collins hoc nomination committees raised at the time from non-executives auditors.
director level, the majority of which were spent with public companies, and Rupert Pennant-Rea.
Martin Ballinger sits in attendance.
The and executives depending on the position being filled.
Most recently, before joining Go-Ahead.
remuneration committee consists of Sir Patrick Brown, Christopher REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the two independent non-executives and the chief executive, formed Collins and Rupert Pennant-Rea.
The remuneration committee is made up of the non-executive directors a committee to recruit a further non-executive prior to the departure and was chaired by Professor Sir Frederick Holliday until 17 October of Professor Sir Frederick Holliday.
That ad hoc committee met several 2002, when Sir Patrick Brown was appointed as chairman.
It has the times and ultimately put forward the recommendation for the responsibility for determining the remuneration, contract terms and recruitment of Rupert Pennant-Rea, whose appointment was ratified other benefits for executive directors, including performance-related by the board.
bonus and share option schemes.
Details of policy and directors B.
1.7 Two executive directors have contracts with two years notice remuneration, including share options and contract terms, are set out on the basis explained in the directors remuneration report in the directors remuneration report on pages 17 to 19.
ADVISORS The board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS to comply with The Turnbull Report:Internal Control: Guidance for The executive directors meet the groups institutional investors Stockbroker & Auditors Principal Bankers Directors on the Combined Code.
after announcement of interim and final results and at other times as appropriate.
The directors are also regularly in contact with Financial Advisor Ernst & Young LLP The Royal Bank of Scotland plc THE BOARD stockbrokers analysts.
All shareholders are invited to the Annual Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Citygate Corporate Banking The board currently comprises three non-executive directors, all General Meeting.
The group maintains a web site and expects this of whom are considered to be independent, and three executive PO Box 560 St James Boulevard 8th Floor to continue to be a growing medium for communication to individual directors, and is responsible to shareholders for the proper management 20 Fenchurch Street NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE 135 Bishopsgate shareholders.
It meets at least every two months, setting and LONDON NE1 4JD LONDON monitoring group strategy, reviewing trading performance, ensuring PENSION PLAN EC3P 3DB EC2M 3UR adequate funding, examining major acquisition possibilities, formulating The assets of the groups pension plan are totally separate from the Solicitors policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
assets of the group and are invested with independent fund managers.
Joint Stockbroker Dickinson Dees WestLB There are 28 trustees, all employees chosen to reflect the geographic All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited St Anns Wharf Woolgate Exchange and functional spread of the group and including the three executive appointment and are subject to re-election at intervals of not more Commercial Union House 112 Quayside 25 Basinghall Street directors.
Martin Ballinger is chairman of the trustees.
The auditors and than three years.
39 Pilgrim Street NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE LONDON actuaries of the plan are both independent of the group.
NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE NE99 1SB EC2V 5HA NE1 6RQ Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway WORTHING West Sussex BN99 6DA 14 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT The key procedures which the directors have established with a view This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SALARIES The board is fully committed to delivering the highest standards of to providing effective internal controls are as follows: of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985, which applies for the first Salaries are intended to be sufficient to attract and retain directors of health, safety and welfare for all of its employees and customers and time this financial year.
the high calibre required by the group.
Salaries are reviewed annually in a decentralised organisation structure with defined limits of acknowledges its responsibility for other persons who may be affected April.
Salaries may be increased beyond inflation if justified by reference responsibility and authority in accordance with the groups policy The law requires the companys auditors to audit certain of the by the groups activities.
to the performance of the individual and if there is clear evidence from and procedures manual: disclosures provided.
Where disclosures have been subject to audit, they the Monks Partnership reports and or the comparator companies that The board is committed to minimising any detrimental effect that the are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is included in their report an annual budgeting process with regular re-forecasting of results, the existing salaries are not competitive.
groups activities may have upon the environment and acknowledges its on page 22. identifying key risks and opportunities: EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CASH BONUSES responsibility to take reasonable measures to safeguard the environment REMUNERATION COMMITTEE PROCEDURES monthly financial reporting and review of results by group executives: Executive directors are paid a bonus in addition to salary.
The bonus for both present and future generations.
the company reports to shareholders twice a year: MEETINGS is paid in October on the basis of achievement of financial and other The board takes all necessary steps to ensure that its statutory duties The remuneration committee met on four occasions during the year.
targets in the financial year ended in the previous June.
The bonus defined capital expenditure approval procedures: and are met.
At each meeting the committee was composed of the three is non-pensionable and is paid in cash.
Achievement of performance a commitment to best practice in external reporting.
These policies are regularly monitored and the groups subsidiaries independent non-executive directors, Sir Patrick Brown, Christopher targets in the year ended 29 June 2002 resulted in bonus payments subjected to independent audit to ensure that the relevant objectives Collins and Rupert Pennant-Rea, under the chairmanship of the of 20% of basic salary in October 2002.
The key processes used by the board to review the effectiveness of are achieved.
Professor Sir Frederick Holliday was also a the system of internal control include the following: In respect of the year ended 28 June 2003, the remuneration committee member of the committee until his retirement.
The chief executive The groups Environmental & Social Report is published separately and decided that performance related pay should represent a greater annual review of the group internal control document, which covers was in attendance at all of the four meetings, acting as secretary.
is available to download from the Go-Ahead web site.
It raised the bonus rate to 30% conditional both financial and non-financial areas of internal control, and is The board continues to believe that, in the Go-Ahead Group, the upon the achievement of certain financial targets.
The committee will certified by the respective subsidiary boards: INTERNAL CONTROLS chairman of the board is the proper person to be chairman of the decide on the award of bonuses for the year to 28 June 2003 in The board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the groups monthly reporting of financial information to the board remuneration committee as he has more direct lines of communication October 2003. system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal encompassing profit and loss, cash flow and balance sheet with the business than the other non-executives.
controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHARE BONUS SCHEME information and key operating ratios: failure to achieve SUPPORT TO THE COMMITTEE In addition to the cash bonus referred to, the finance director was regular reporting to the board on specific matters including safety, the groups strategic objectives, and can only provide reasonable and At the two meetings considering payments to the executive directors, offered a bonus in Go-Ahead shares based on the group reporting insurance and treasury management: and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
the committee received independent advice from Watson Wyatt LLP, a net profit before tax for the year to June 2002 above a specified a remuneration specialist.
In addition to the advice to the committee, threshold.
The offer was made on 18 October 2001. considering the outcome of the audit committee meetings and the An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Watson Wyatt LLP are consulting actuaries to the company and advised relevant action determined in respect of any control issues raised by Committee on internal control, has been established for identifying, In the year ended 29 June 2002 the group net profit failed to reach on various pension issues.
At those same meetings the committee internal or external auditors.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
The remuneration committee agreed to award received recommendations from the chief executive on executive process has been in place for the full year under review and up to the GOING CONCERN a nominal share bonus of 12,000 to the finance director in October directors remuneration other than his own: and information on the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the 2002 to reflect specific achievements.
remuneration of senior managers in the group.
The recommendations board regularly reviews this process.
directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate The bonus was used to buy Go-Ahead Group shares.
The shares were were supported by analysis of relevant data from reports by the resources to continue for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, placed in a trust on behalf of the finance director and will remain in Monks Partnership, and by analysis of the remuneration paid to consider that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in the trust for a period of three years from that date, when title will executive directors in Stagecoach, FirstGroup, National Express and preparing its accounts.
be transferred to him, provided he is still employed by the company.
With the chief executive absent, the committee then considered his remuneration.
A share bonus award of 100,000 was made on similar terms to the finance director in the previous year.
At one of the meetings, the committee considered executive directors bonuses.
In respect of those bonuses, in addition to the comparators In respect of the year under review, the finance director is again due already referred to, the chief executives recommendations were a share bonus calculated by reference to the groups net profit.
The referenced to achievement of financial and other targets in the committee will decide on the award of a bonus for the year to 28 June previous financial year.
Again, the committee was assisted by the views 2003 in October 2003. of Watson Wyatt.
Three senior executives in the group also participate in share bonus ACCEPTANCE BY THE BOARD OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE schemes related to the performance of the subsidiary businesses they PROPOSALS control.
The remuneration committee controls the approval process Following the two meetings, the committee recommended salary for those awards.
increases and bonus payments for the executive directors.
The board The company operates a savings related employee share option accepted the recommendations of the committee without amendment.
scheme and, from 1 July 2003, has introduced a Share Incentive Plan.
POLICY ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The finance director participates in these schemes.
His eligibility and involvement in them are no different to the terms of any other POLICY participating Go-Ahead Group employee and are not separately The overall policy adopted by the remuneration committee is to regulated by the remuneration committee.
ensure that the Go-Ahead Group is paying sufficient to attract, retain and motivate executive directors.
The committee also considers the There are no other share option or long-term incentive schemes pay, incentives and benefits packages of senior executives in the group available to executive directors.
PENSION FUNDS The remuneration committee recognises that, in a business such as All three executive directors, together with 5,700 other Go-Ahead the Go-Ahead Group, shareholder value is dependent on factors not employees, are members of the Go-Ahead Group pension plan.
all necessarily appearing within the published accounts: although their OTHER BENEFITS effect on later accounts can be significant.
Chief among these corporate The company does not allocate motor cars to directors or other staff.
governance issues are safety and the control of risk.
But there are Instead, personnel who would have been allocated a motor car as part other executive actions of a strategic nature that may take several of their benefits, or to accomplish their work, are given a car accounting periods to show changes in shareholder value.
in the Go-Ahead Group are encouraged to take corporate governance extremely seriously and always to consider the long-term implications of their decision-making.
The remuneration committee has regard to these factors, as well as the annual reported accounts, in arriving at the directors overall remuneration and in considering the mix between fixed and variable pay.
16 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 17 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS CONTRACTS DIRECTORS PENSION FUNDS Executive Director Date of Contract Notice Period The following information relates to the directors final salary pension benefits.
Martin Ballinger April 1987 amended in April 1994 2 years Disclosures required under the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules Christopher Moyes April 1987 amended in April 1994 2 years Ian Butcher May 1996 1 year Martin Christopher Ian Ballinger Moyes Butcher The executive directors have rolling contracts.
Other than the notice periods specified, directors are not due any significant contractual Accrued pension 29 June 2002 000 p. a.
143 138 18 compensation payments in the event of loss of office.
153 148 23 The two-year contracts with Mr Ballinger and Mr Moyes have been in place for many years.
It is intended that the contracts of any future board members will not exceed one year as is the case with Mr Butcher.
Increase in the accrued pension during the year in excess of inflation 000 p. a.
8 8 5 Transfer value of the increase in the accrued pension in excess of directors contributions 000 69 42 16 INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT Additional disclosures in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 EMOLUMENTS AND COMPENSATION Total Martin Christopher Ian Performance Deferred Car Benefit excluding Ballinger Moyes Butcher Salary Fees related share bonus replacement in Kind pensions Increase in the accrued pension during the year 000 10 10 5 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 Transfer value of the accrued pension at 29 June 2002 000 1,592 1,172 114 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Transfer value of the accrued pension at 28 June 2003 000 1,882 1,305 153 Sir Patrick Brown 59 29 59 29 Rupert Pennant-Rea 21 21 Increase in transfer value over the year net of directors contributions 000 273 117 24 Christopher Collins 30 29 30 29 Martin Ballinger 288 278 57 55 15 15 1 361 348 Notes Christopher Moyes 273 263 54 52 14 14 1 342 329 1 In previous years accounts, disclosures have been made under the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
These Rules are still in place, but it is now also necessary to make disclosure Ian Butcher 247 237 49 47 12 100 13 13 1 322 397 in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The above information sets out the disclosures under the two sets of requirements.
Prof. Sir Frederick Holliday 23 62 23 62 2 The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11 published by the Institute of Faculty of Actuaries.
941 898 160 154 12 100 42 42 3 1,158 1,194 3 Messrs Ballinger, Moyes and Butcher are members of the groups final salary pension scheme.
4 During the year Mr Butcher brought a transfer into the plan from the Equitable Life Assurance Society.
This purchased a service credit of five years and seven months.
The credit has The Deferred Share Bonus is held in trust on behalf of Ian Butcher for a period of 3 years been excluded from the above calculations.
Next years disclosure will, however, include the credit within the calculations.
Retired 17 October 2002 DIRECTORS SHARE OPTIONS At 28.6.
02 Exercise Maturity Expiry Price Date TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN COMPARATIVE PERFORMANCE Mr Butcher: Savings related 281 688p Jan 03 Jun 03 950 Savings related 387 387 490p Jan 05 Jun 05 850 Savings related 390 484p Jan 06 Jun 06 750 650 The market price of the groups ordinary shares at 28 June 2003 was 740p and the range during the year to 28 June 2003 was 530p to 770p.
550 These options were not exercised 450 350 250 Jun 98 Dec 98 Jun 99 Dec 99 Jun 00 Dec 00 Jun 01 Dec 01 Jun 02 Dec 02 Jun 03 The Go-Ahead Group plc FTSE Transport Index 18 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 19 Total shareholder return pence DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The board also confirms its intention that equity securities The directors present their report and audited accounts for the year SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS affecting day-to-day operations of the group.
Discussions take place ended 28 June 2003. equivalent to no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of As at 20 August 2003 the company has been notified of the following regularly with trades unions representing the employees on a wide the company will be allotted for cash on a non pre-emptive basis interests in its ordinary shares excluding the directors above which range of issues.
ACTIVITIES during any rolling three-year period, again in line with institutional represent 3% or more of the issued share capital of the company: The principal activities of the group are the provision of passenger The group supports local communities events in which its employees investor guidelines.
The group is a member of the Per Cent Club in the North No.. % East and commits a proportion of its pre-tax profits to community This authority will lapse on the conclusion of the next Annual TRADING activities, principally in the fields of education and training.
Charitable General Meeting of the company or, if earlier, fifteen months after The profit and loss account appears on page 24.
The directors propose Schroder Investment Management 4,111,777 8.12 donations, sponsorship and community support over the year the passing of the resolution except in so far as commitments to that a final dividend of 18.0p be paid making a total of 25.0p for the Aviva plc 3,226,112 6.37 amounted to 273,000 2002 260,000. allot shares have been entered into before that date.
Nuevas Iniciativas Europeas SUPPLIERS Resolution 9 set out in the notice of Annual General Meeting, A review of the business of the group during the year and its prospects fide Transporte, S. A.
3,035,000 5.99 Each company agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, seeks for the future can be found in the Chairmans Statement and the with suppliers.
Payment is then made on these terms, subject to the shareholder approval for the establishment of a new SavingsTH Shears 2,129,000 4.20 Financial and Operating Reviews on pages 4 to 13. terms and conditions being met by the suppliers.
At 28 June 2003 the related Share Option Scheme in place of the existing SavingsThreadneedle Asset Management 2,018,869 3.98 DIRECTORS number of days purchases outstanding for the company and the group related Share Option Scheme under which options will no longer Standard Life Investments 1,881,172 3.71 The names of the directors appear on page 14. were 34 and 32 days respectively.
be capable of being granted after 27 April 2004.
The rules of the Keolis S. A.
1,575,000 3.11 new scheme, a summary of which is set out in the Appendix to Professor Sir Frederick Holliday retired as chairman and non-executive SPECIAL BUSINESS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Barclays Bank PLC 1,529,937 3.02 the notice of Annual General Meeting, are broadly similar to the director and Sir Patrick Brown was appointed chairman on 17 October Resolution 8 set, out in the notice of Annual General Meeting, which rules of the existing scheme but take account of various changes 2002.
Rupert Pennant-Rea was appointed as non-executive director will be proposed as a special resolution, will supplement the directors These holdings are in respect of the aggregate of investment management clients since that scheme was adopted by the company in 1994.
He retires and, being eligible, offers himself for authority to allot shares in the company.
interests within the respective asset management companies.
proposed to grant options under the new Savings-related Share re-election.
Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 requires a company proposing Option Scheme this year.
In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association, Ian to allot equity securities for cash to offer them first to existing Resolution 10 set out in the notice of Annual General Meeting, DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE Butcher and Sir Patrick Brown retire by rotation and being eligible, offer shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Equity which will be proposed as a special resolution, gives the company FINANCIAL STATEMENTS themselves for re-election.
Mr Butchers service contract provides for securities includes ordinary shares the only class of share capital the authorisation to use its available cash resources to acquire its Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for a rolling one year notice period.
Non-executive directors do not have company has at present but does not include shares issued under own shares in the market for either cancellation or assuming each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs service contracts of one year or more.
If this resolution is passed, the requirement that the intended change of law referred to in the note above of the company, and of the group and of the profit or loss of the group imposed by section 89 will not apply to allotments by the directors The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, which came comes into force to hold them as treasury shares.
The directors for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are in three cases: into force on 1 August 2002, require that the Directors Remuneration do not intend to exercise the companys power to purchase its required to: Report of listed companies be put to a shareholder vote each year.
1 in connection with a rights or similar issue, where strict own shares other than in circumstances where this will result in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them, consistently: The shareholder vote will be advisory only.
Accordingly, at the Annual application of the principle in section 89 could for example either an increase in earnings per share.
General Meeting this year, the board is asking shareholders to approve make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: result in fractional entitlements to shares arising or require the This authority will lapse on the conclusion of the next Annual the Directors Remuneration Report as set out in the companys and issue of shares where this would be impractical because of local, General Meeting of the company, or if earlier, fifteen months after Financial Review.
legal or regulatory requirements in any given overseas jurisdiction: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, the passing of the resolution.
The directors interests in the share capital of the company at the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 2 allotments of shares for cash up to a total nominal value of 253,331 AUDITORS respective year ends, or later date of appointment, were as follows: financial statements.
representing 5% of the companys issued share capital at 28 June A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the groups 2003.
This gives the directors flexibility to take advantage of The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
2003 2002 business opportunities as they arise, whilst the 5% limit ensures which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position No.
that existing shareholders interests are protected in accordance of the group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply By order of the board with guidelines issued by institutional investors bodies: and Martin Ballinger Beneficial 3,637,712 3,650,212 with the Companies Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding I P Butcher 3 in connection with the sale by the company of shares held by it in the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Non-beneficial 122,500 80,000 Secretary treasury.
From 1 December 2003 UK listed companies will be able prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Ian Butcher Beneficial 108,569 98,040 to purchase and hold in treasury up to 10% of their issued share MANAGEMENT AND STAFF 4 September 2003 Sir Patrick Brown Beneficial 7,500 7,500 capital.
This is a change from the current law under which such There are approved share option and share incentive schemes in Christopher Collins Beneficial 10,000 10,000 Registered office: shares must be cancelled.
Whilst shares are held in treasury they existence intended to enable all staff to share in the prosperity of 3rd Floor Christopher Moyes Beneficial 1,950,703 2,494,628 will not be entitled to vote or receive dividends declared by the 41 51 Grey Street the group.
Section 89 pre-emption rights will normally apply to the Non-beneficial 37,400 35,400 Newcastle upon Tyne It is the groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications subsequent sale of the shares held in treasury in the same way NE1 6EE Rupert Pennant-Rea Beneficial 2,000 for employment by disabled persons.
Disabled employees are eligible as they apply to an issue of new shares for cash.
2100855 to participate in all career development opportunities available to disapplies section 89 pre-emption rights in the event of sales of Includes 29,628 shares held in an offshore trust under the rules of the executive staff.
Opportunities also exist for employees who become disabled directors share bonus scheme described in the directors remuneration report.
Any acquisition of shares to be held in treasury to continue in their employment or to be trained for other positions by the company and any subsequent disposals, will be subject in the group.
to this change of law becoming effective and to compliance There were no changes in these interests up to 4 September 2003. with any applicable rules or guidelines issued by institutional The group is committed to involve all employees in the performance Details of directors interests in share options appear in the directors investors bodies.
and development of the group.
Employees are encouraged to discuss remuneration report on pages 17 to 19. with management matters of interest to the employees and subjects 20 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 21 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We read other information contained in the Annual Report and We have audited the groups financial statements for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
28 June 2003 which comprise the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, This other information comprises the Financial Highlights, Chairmans Consolidated Note of Historical Cost Profits and Losses, Consolidated Statement, Financial Review, Operating Review, Directors and Advisors, Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Corporate Governance, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Statement, Notes to the Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes Report, Directors Report, Principal Subsidiary Undertakings and Joint 1 to 27.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis Ventures, Five Year Financial History, Shareholder Information and Notice of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the of Meeting.
We consider the implications for our report if we become information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with as having been audited.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in other information.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION members those matters we are required to state to them in an We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and other than the company and the companys members as a body, for disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 24 Consolidated Profit & Loss Account accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, including the financial statements which are required to be prepared consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting 24 Consolidated Note of Historical Cost standards as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Profits and Losses in relation to the financial statements.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 25 Consolidated Balance Sheet us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with 26 Balance Sheet audited are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
27 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration 28 Notes to the Cash Flow Statement give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and Report to be audited.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have 30 Notes to the Financial Statements OPINION been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
In our opinion: We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not 53 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept Joint Ventures affairs of the company and of the group as at 28 June 2003 and proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Ernst & Young LLP Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report Registered Auditor if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form 4 September 2003 an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance Newcastle upon Tyne procedures or its risk and control procedures.
22 THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC 23
