com Operating review HMV Group achieved another record Continued strong cash generation, year of sales performance and profit driven by increased profitability and further generation, with HMV Europe once again improvements in working capital, offset proving itself to be the powerhouse of the by increased capital investment, delivered Group.
Overall sales increased by 3.2%, operating cash inflow of 134.3 million, with like for like sales growth of 1.6%, compared with 159.0 million in the prior including 1.9% growth in HMV and 0.9% year.
As a result, the Group continues like for like growth in Waterstones.
The to make rapid progress on reducing its Group improved operating profit by 12.1% borrowings, with year end net debt of to 118.4 million, and operating margin 158.6 million, down from 253.6 million for the year increased to 6.9% from 6.4%.
on a pro forma basis in the prior year.
A reorganisation of senior management followed David Prydes resignation as Managing Director of HMV Europe.
Steve Knott was appointed Managing Director of HMV Europe and his deep experience and knowledge of the business, gained through seven years spent as Operations Director of HMV UK, ensured a high level of continuity.
Steves move from his position as Managing Director at Waterstones created a vacancy which Brian McLaughlin returned to occupy, in addition to his role as the Groups Chief Operating Officer, until a new Managing Director is appointed.
Following the year end, Paul Dezelsky, President of HMV Asia Pacific, assumed responsibility for Australia in addition to Japan, Hong Kong and Singapore.
At the end of July, Chris Walker, President of HMV North America retires following 14 years with HMV, and the Group extends its gratitude and best wishes to Chris for his retirement.
Humphrey Kadaner joins HMV North America as President from Sony, where he managed Sonys store retail business in Canada and the US.
Below left to right : Above: Steve Knott Brian McLaughlin Managing Director, HMV Europe Chief Operating Officer and acting Managing Director, Waterstones Paul Dezelsky President, HMV Asia Pacific Chris Walker President, HMV North America HMV Group plc 25 www.
2Constant exchange growth over the corresponding period last year is based on the weighted average exchange rates for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2002.
3 HMV Groups like for like sales performance measures stores that were open at the beginning of the previous financial year i. e. open at the beginning of May 2001 and that have not been expanded, closed or resited during that time.
Like for like sales growth is calculated at constant exchange rates.
Stores resized up or down are excluded from like for like sales performance.
Sales are only ever the net amount received.
4Operating profit is shown before operating exceptional items.
com Operating review continued HMV Europe HMV Europe In my 14 years with HMV The HMV Europe business, which Ive had a number of store operates through 166 stores, primarily management roles before in the UK, enjoyed another outstanding joining Head Office as a year of sales performance and profit buyer in 1998.
Turnover for the year grew achievement this year to 867.4 million, a 10.6% increase on was my teams contribution the prior year and a 3.7% like for like to the record results improvement, contributing to a 19.7% rise achieved in the crucial in operating profit to 88.6 million, with Christmas trading period.
operating margin up to 10.2% from 9.4%.
On recommendations, A highlight of the year was the Ill choose Paul Wellers performance of the record 21 new store best solo album to openings and two resites, which added date, Illumination.
92,000 square feet of trading space to Rob Campkin HMV UK the HMV business in the UK.
The new Head of Rock and stores outperformed by some distance Pop Dance and Urban their sales and profit targets.
As the cornerstone of HMVs strategic growth their performance enables the Group to look forward with confidence to the continuing store roll out programme for the new financial year, when a further 15 new stores are expected to open.
The overall sales performance reflects another year of exceptional growth for DVD and its increasing importance to the HMV business.
Music now accounts for 51% of sales, down from 56% in 2001 02, with outstanding DVD growth of 83%, driving total video to 36% of sales, up from 31%.
According to the Official Chart Since joining HMV in 1994, Company OCC, in 2002 03 the I have managed stores in volume of UK music sales grew by 2%.
Despite an increasingly competitive I currently manage the market, HMV UK retained its position as Trafford Centre store, and market leader holding market share at was delighted for our success 25.1% OCC volume.
The support HMV to be recognised with the gives to new artists played a key role in Store Manager of the Year maintaining our share, with the range of award.
My favourite CD of promotional Playlist CDs extended and the year is The beginning additional store space devoted to New stages of... by Polyphonic Music.
Reflecting the strength of HMVs Spree because they are the proposition for its customers, for a fifth most uplifting, motivating, successive year HMV was named as feel good band ever!
the Best Retail Chain in the Music Yvonne Drake HMV UK Week Awards.
Manager of the Year, Trafford Centre, Manchester HMV Group plc 27 www.
com In DVD, HMV UK increased its share to The HMV e-commerce business 25.8% OCC volume and remains also went from strength to strength, market leader in this rapidly developing increasing sales and profitability.
This owed much to our ability to The online channel is of high importance drive sales of catalogue titles through to the stores as a marketing tool, and compelling campaigns and promotional 75% of visitors to HMV.
HMV also launched the ScreenXtra website to view the offers available in preview DVD as a tool for raising store.
90% of HMV website users buy awareness of release dates and HMV in HMV stores and so the business has offers to core customers.
This retail first developed an in-store e-mail customer was a huge step forward in customer recruitment programme which drives communication and has proved to be a customers back into the stores.
powerful vehicle for keeping HMV ahead Key to the high operating of its competitors by demonstrating standards demonstrated by HMV is authority in DVD.
the passion, commitment and specialist HMV Europes games business expertise of the people who work within achieved sales growth of 14%, driven the business, and during the year HMV primarily by console sales, with software made notable progress to meet targets share impacted by the increased on staff development, retention and bundling of titles with hardware sold recruitment.
In addition, HMV retained by competitors.
the Investor in People Award originally World-class retailing standards received in 2000. in HMV continued to facilitate the HMV completed its withdrawal conversion of strong sales performance from Germany, closing two stores during I have been at HMVs Oxford into profit growth, with operating margin the year and the final store after the Street store since September improving to a record 10.2% from 9.4%.
The stores were originally 1999 where I am a Sales This in part reflected a 40 basis point established as a pilot, but insufficient Assistant.
HMV had a terrific improvement in product margins, consumer interest in the core HMV brand Christmas, and I was pleased primarily achieved through ever tighter values of range authority and specialist to sell the stores largest control of stock obsolescence and knowledge meant that a roll-out of amount of games software.
shrinkage, including the benefit of further stores in Germany could not be justified.
Game of the year for me investment in stock security systems.
The total cost of closure of 1.0 million was Puzzle Fighter for the Operating costs also continued to be was expensed within operating profit.
I saw tightly managed throughout the business.
In the first few months of this year, my team leader playing the The focus on operational HMV has continued to identify new store game on his Gameboy and effectiveness also delivered further opportunities for the UK, and nine new had to buy my own handheld improvements in balance sheet sites have already been secured for console just to play Puzzle management.
HMV Europes market- 2003 04, including Birmingham Bullring, Fighter.
I havent been able leading stockturn 8.6 times ensured Epsom, Stirling and the Whiteleys to put it down since!
working capital more than funded the shopping centre in London.
divisions fixed assets by an average of Dipo George Sales Assistant 45 million throughout the year.
HMV Oxford Street HMV Group plc 28 www.
com Operating review continued HMV International HMV Asia Pacific HMVs e-commerce operation moved In Asia Pacific, HMV operates through firmly into profit for the first time and 75 stores, with 37 in Japan, 32 in generated over 10% of total sales Australia and a total six stores in in Japan.
Sales growth followed the Hong Kong and Singapore.
improvements made to fulfilment, Total sales for the region, at site layout and catalogue, and a mobile constant exchange rates, increased Internet website contributed to an overall by 4.8%, with like for like sales declining one million page hits per day for the marginally by 0.1%.
growth in Australia, offsetting a small In Australia, HMV enjoyed an decline in Japan, with conditions more outstanding year of sales growth, difficult in Hong Kong and Singapore.
with an exceptional DVD performance Sales in all territories continued to be and significantly improved market share driven by DVD, which for the region in music the main drivers.
Merchandising overall increased by 54% at constant improvements were made to all HMV exchange rates, with total video now stores to enhance presentation and 22% of sales, up from 17% in 2001 02. competitiveness, and there was also a In a highly fragmented competitive very strong focus on stock management.
environment, HMV increased its music Two new stores were opened at Miranda market share in Japan, reflecting strong and Surfers Paradise.
campaign and promotional activity based In Hong Kong and Singapore solid upon the HMV UK model.
HMV also operational progress was made, notably improved its brand awareness during through improvements in stock efficiency the year, supporting the major Japanese and property arrangements.
Central music festivals Fuji Rock and Summer costs were also significantly reduced Sonic, and a programme of in-store events at the start of the year in anticipation were staged throughout the chain.
of more difficult economic conditions, Four new stores opened which were more acutely realised than successfully during the year in Oita, expected with the outbreak of the Machida, Hakata and Sapporo, all of SARS epidemic in the final quarter.
These reflected Operating profit for the region was the introduction of a new store design ahead by 1.0 million to 9.3 million, an with a simple modern feel and fresh 18.5% increase at constant exchange graphics.
In addition, major and minor rates, with operating margin improving to refits were carried out in over half of 3.4% from 3.0%.
This reflected the benefit the stores to improve presentation, of e-commerce profits, combined with lighting, and space allocation.
The store resilient product margins, achieved development team for Japan was also despite the very competitive environment strengthened to accelerate new site and the dilutive effect of lower margin opportunities, with a target of eight new DVD sales.
The operating margin also store openings in the new financial year, benefited from a strong focus on the most of which have already been secured.
control of store and central costs.
Support for the expansion of the HMV Asia Pacific also contributed business in Japan was provided through further improvements in working capital new staff training programmes based management, by improving settlement on concepts originating in HMV UK.
terms with key suppliers and improving Strong progress was also made in stockturn to 6.4 times.
developing the skills needed to maximise the Track management information In 1997 I joined HMV system, and during the year the business Japans Tokyo Ginza store made further advances in working capital as a stock processor, and management, improving stock turn for later became rock buyer.
I transferred to the e-commerce team at the time of launch, and it has been very exciting to contribute to this rapidly growing and pioneering part of the business.
Outside of work, I like to follow my favourite football team, Chelsea FC.
Jiro Baba HMV Japan Internet HMV Group plc 29 www.
com HMV North America Inclusive of the above one-off charges, Primarily located in Canada, where HMV HMV North America recorded a has market leadership operating through 3.5 million operating loss for the period, 99 stores, HMV North America encountered down from a 1.0 million profit in 2001 02. very difficult trading conditions, particularly Adjusting for the closure of the US in the first half of the year.
Overall like for stores and the restructuring of HMV.
com, like sales fell 4.0%, with an 8.8% fall in HMV Canada recorded an operating the first half, improving to a 0.7% decline profit of 2.0 million, offset by 2.0 million in the last six months.
Total sales for the of ongoing operating losses in the legacy region decreased by 9.9% at constant US business.
exchange rates, reflecting the accelerated Looking forward, HMV North programme of store closures in the America has a very clear focus on US business.
improving performance through better The music market in Canada again marketing and campaigns, effective proved difficult, with Soundscan market management of costs and more efficient volume falling by 17.2% in the year.
and proactive management of stock.
Against this backdrop, HMV Canada consistently grew share, which overall was up to 24.4% from 23.8%.
This resilient performance reflected the introduction of more aggressive campaigns and other promotional activity, funded in part by the negotiation of improved trading terms from suppliers.
The success of the DVD format continued to be the main driver of sales in the year, with 50% growth contributing to total video accounting for 27% of total sales, up from 19% in the prior year.
DVD pricing in the market was particularly competitive, to which HMV Canada responded by introducing more aggressive price points, in part supported by improved trading terms from suppliers.
In April 2003 HMV Canadas e-commerce operation was relaunched as a co-branded site with amazon.
Ive been with HMV Canada Under this arrangement, amazon.
ca will for 13 years, initially in store provide inventory, content and customer roles.
As TRACK Operations service for HMV.
com, but the new site Manager I am responsible will continue to offer unique HMV content, for improving the use of including information about HMV store systems in stores to maximise locations, jobs and instore events.
operational effectiveness Restructuring costs were 0.6 million and through documentation, were expensed within operating profit.
training and implementation The gradual downsizing of the of best practices.
My favourite legacy US business continued, and four CD from last year was Up stores were closed during the year and by Peter Gabriel and I love one after the year end, leaving a total of Six Feet Under Season seven stores down from 12 at the prior One on DVD.
The net cost of the accelerated Martine Frobisher closure programme of 2.9 million was HMV Canada expensed within operating profit.
Track Operations Manager HMV Group plc 30 www.
com Operating review continued Waterstones Waterstones In Waterstones good progress was made during the first 12 months of a three-year recovery programme.
Operating through 193 stores primarily in the UK, of which 39 are on university campuses, Waterstones remains the leading retailer of books in the UK.
Total sales for the business for the year were 406.2 million, a 0.3% decrease over the prior year, reflecting some store closures.
Like for like sales growth in a relatively flat book market was 0.9% for the full year.
Sales performance during the period was subject to variability as the business implemented crucial elements of the recovery strategy.
The focus during the summer and autumn was to improve the range, by replacing some 10 million of slow-moving stock with faster-moving, more saleable titles, and to refurbish nine large Waterstones stores.
The highlight Ive been with Waterstones was an outstanding Christmas for nine years, initially in various performance, when like for like sales store roles.
Maintenance of were up 5.6% against very strong the core stock range shapes comparatives 9.1% from the prior the standing and reputation year.
The Christmas performance was of Waterstones as the number driven by the continued improvement one specialist book retailer.
in retailing standards and a well executed Hence, my role as Range marketing strategy.
Manager is to ensure that our customers are offered the widest choice of the most interesting books available.
My book recommendation is The Cheese Monkeys by Chip Kidd.
Pete Harvey Waterstones Range Manager HMV Group plc 31 www.
com Operating profit increased by 7.8% Also crucial to Waterstones set of brand to 24.0 million, with operating margin values is the expertise and knowledge improving to 5.9% from 5.5%.
During the year, This performance reflected margin Waterstones introduced a new field improvements from improved terms management team, enabling the and promotional support, combined with business to draw on experience from tighter control of shrinkage.
The latter key people from a variety of different highlighted the benefit of investment in retail backgrounds.
Improvements to and utilisation of improved store systems, the career and personal development the improved stock range and increased programme for Waterstones booksellers focus by all levels of operational were reflected in recruitment trends, management.
The operating margin where two-thirds of the branch manager also benefited from a consistent attention appointments during the year were from to cost control across the business, within Waterstones.
Staff turnover was particularly store labour costs.
also reduced and improved processes The benefits of operational for the recruitment of booksellers were improvements achieved to date are also reflected in high quality temporary staff reflected in Waterstones working capital, employed over the key Christmas period.
with the average month end balance The size of Waterstones store decreasing by 9.0 million.
This success portfolio was little altered during the was reflected in a record stockturn period, save the previously announced of 3.4 times, up from 3.2 times in the closure of four stores.
In the new financial prior year.
year Waterstones is extending the focus In Waterstones the backlist of the refit programme to over a quarter accounts for the vast majority of sales, of the portfolio, where more fundamental illustrating the extent to which the range aspects of store maintenance are being is the lifeblood of the business.
The new financial year has further reinforced by research among already seen the announcement of the customers, which found that Waterstones opening of the first new Waterstones scored higher than other booksellers in store for four years, at Manchesters the key criteria of range, availability and Trafford Centre, and further new stores knowledge.
Nevertheless, further are planned for this year.
improving the stock efficiency of the business inventory without undermining the core brand value of range remains a focus for the coming year.
In particular, the process of stock replenishment is being tightened to reduce the number of multiple copies of each title held.
I joined Waterstones in 1997 and have been Branch Manager since 2000.
At Bluewater our focus is on depth and quality of range, combined with excellence in customer service, which together are reflected in the performance of the store.
It was fantastic that our success was recognised with my award of Branch Manager of the Year.
Elyse Goldsworthy Branch Manager Waterstones Bluewater West
