CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ENGINEERING AD ENGINEERING ADV VANT ANTA AG GE E L LOOKING AHEAD, OUR OOKING AHEAD, OUR F FOCUS HAS MO OCUS HAS MOVED A VED AW WA AY Y FROM OPERA FROM OPERATIONAL TIONAL RESTRUC RESTRUCTURING T TURING TO O DELIVERING GRO DELIVERING GROWTH.
Martin Lamb, Martin Lamb, Chief Ex Chief Executiv ecutive e Most of the operational restructuring associated with the Looking ahead, our focus has moved away from operational repositioning we embarked on three years ago has now been restructuring to delivering growth.
Central to that delivery is an concluded.
Rationalisation costs this year of less than 6m compare acceleration of our key account activity, expansion of our new to 32m last year and have now returned to the levels I would product programme, and a greater commitment to the fastnormally associate with ongoing cost reduction activity.
growing economies of China and Eastern Europe.
Our five platform businesses, within the two fields of Fluid Controls The changes to the Board referred to by the Chairman will assist this and Retail Dispense, are now firmly established with leading process, allowing me more time to focus on organic growth positions in clearly defined global niche markets.
Their focus is on initiatives as well as the strategic development of the Group.
providing innovative technical solutions for a highly targeted As we enter 2004, prospects for global economies seem brighter number of large, global customers, wherever possible distancing than they were twelve months ago.
Whilst this is certainly themselves from commodity offerings for which price is the only encouraging, it is too early to say whether this optimism will flow basis of competition.
through into a sustainable increase in activity.
Competitive Delivering the right degree of focus on innovative technical pressures remain intense, particularly in respect of some of our solutions has required a fairly substantial upgrade in both the older product lines, with price competition and rising raw materials quality and number of people in our customer facing and costs continuing to squeeze margins.
The sharp weakening of the engineering functions.
Investment in these areas has been US dollar, if maintained, will inevitably impact 2004 reported sterling accelerating for each of the last three years.
Our IMI Academy, for profits.
Notwithstanding these pressures, I believe IMI is well placed the training and development of top quality key account managers, to make further progress in the year ahead, building on the very now has well over 150 fully qualified members, and our investment solid improvement generated in each of the last two years.
in product development has increased 50% over the last three years.
Encouragingly, the number of new products in the pipeline and the quality and depth of key customer relationships is beginning to build momentum.
These additional investments have been financed through a significant restructuring of our cost base.
During the year we developed further our six low cost operations in Mexico, The Czech Republic and China, which now employ over 1400 people and Martin Lamb generate nearly 25% of our Group manufacturing requirements.
Chief Executive The recent establishment of a global procurement resource in 8 March 2004 Shanghai is already delivering savings and we plan to build on this significantly in 2004.
The ongoing process of business simplification has released another 300 overhead positions from the Group during the year.
Collectively these initiatives have reduced our operating cost base by around 18m per annum compared to the position three years ago.
Our continued focus on working capital has delivered another strong cashflow performance, with gearing now reduced to 25%.
We are pleased with the businesses acquired during the year, Artform, Commtech and Fluid Kinetics for a combined sum of 62m and continue our active pursuit of suitable acquisitions.
4 Chief Executives review IMI plc Annual Report 2003 5 OPERATIONS REVIEW IMI Business P IMI Business Pr residents esidents left to right belo left to right below w ENGINEERING AD ENGINEERING ADV VANT ANTA AG GE E WE ARE F WE ARE FOCUSED ON OCUSED ON Stuart Car Stuart Carson son Pe Pet ter W er Wa allac llace e Ro Roy T y Twite wite Alan LaF Alan LaFr re enier niere e Mik Mike Har e Hardy dy Se Sev five er re e Servic Service e Fluid P Fluid Po ow we er r Indoor Climate Indoor Climate Mer Merchandising Sys chandising Systems tems Building Pr Building Products oducts HELPING OUR CUST HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS T OMERS TO O INCREASE THEIR INCREASE THEIR EFFICIENC EFFICIENCY AND DRIVE THEIR INCREMENT Y AND DRIVE THEIR INCREMENTAL SALES.
IMI Business Presidents IMI plc is the ultimate holding company of the Group and has been markets: Fluid Power provides essential pneumatic systems for original The Group serves all the major geographical markets where our The sales and operating profit by business area in 2003 was: listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1966.
At 31 December equipment manufacturers in markets such as automotive, medical, customers are present and in 2003 these can be summarised as follows: % of Group sales 2003 it had a market value of 1.2bn and shareholders funds of printing and packaging and commercial vehicles: Indoor Climate Rest of 539m.
During the year the headquarters relocated to Lakeside, services building and facility operators aiding energy conservation and % sales UK Europe US Other Retail Birmingham Business Park, England.
IMI Group trading activities are cost control.
Our Retail Dispense businesses share merchandising Dispense 29% Fluid Controls 11 54 19 16 carried on through subsidiary companies.
know-how to drive incremental volume for our customers.
Beverage Fluid 448m Controls Retail Dispense 15 10 67 8 Dispense designs and manufactures still and carbonated beverage Group activities 48% Building Building Products 76 21 - 3 dispense systems to help multinational businesses sell in draught form 747m Products The Group activities are organised around three main business areas.
Group 27 342910 their highly branded alcoholic and soft drinks: Merchandising Systems 23% Fluid Controls and Retail Dispense together comprise our five platform 370m designs and supplies point of purchase PoP displays to enable brand The activities are managed on a decentralised basis with each business businesses providing knowledge-based engineering solutions in owners and retailers to increase sales in retail outlets.
Our third unit operating through a local board of directors headed by a business clearly defined niche markets of around 1-3bn.
The common goal of % of Group profit business area, Building Products, predominantly comprises the president.
During 2003 the operational presidents reported directly to all five is to deliver innovative and complete solutions for a highly Retail Polypipe operations which provide plastic pipes and building service the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb.
With effect from 1 March 2004 an Dispense targeted group of leading global customers.
In Fluid Controls our 26% products for the construction and building industry.
executive director will be responsible for each of the Fluid Controls Fluid businesses share similar technologies to drive efficiency.
Severe 40.4m Controls and Retail Dispense activities.
Building Products will continue to report Service principally operates in the power generation and oil and gas 52% Building direct to the Chief Executive.
80.1m Products 22% 33.0m before tax, exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and rationalisation costs 6 Operations review IMI plc Annual Report 2003 7 OPERATIONS REVIEW IMI Business P IMI Business Pr residents esidents left to right belo left to right below w ENGINEERING AD ENGINEERING ADV VANT ANTA AG GE E WE ARE F WE ARE FOCUSED ON OCUSED ON Stuart Car Stuart Carson son Pe Pet ter W er Wa allac llace e Ro Roy T y Twite wite Alan LaF Alan LaFr re enier niere e Mik Mike Har e Hardy dy Se Sev five er re e Servic Service e Fluid P Fluid Po ow we er r Indoor Climate Indoor Climate Mer Merchandising Sys chandising Systems tems Building Pr Building Products oducts HELPING OUR CUST HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS T OMERS TO O INCREASE THEIR INCREASE THEIR EFFICIENC EFFICIENCY AND DRIVE THEIR INCREMENT Y AND DRIVE THEIR INCREMENTAL SALES.
80.1m Products 22% 33.0m before tax, exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and rationalisation costs 6 Operations review IMI plc Annual Report 2003 7 OPERATIONS REVIEW Operations review continued Individual business area performance facilities are improving and more capacity will be transferred during the second half.
Again, new products helped with a successful launch BUILDING PRODUC BUILDING PRODUCTS TS In this review of our businesses, operating profit is stated before 2004.
The heavy expenditure associated with the restructuring is now into the cooled water business in Germany.
In the UK, beer dispenser In the core Building Products business of Polypipe, volumes goodwill amortisation and rationalisation costs.
behind us but future rationalisation will arise from ongoing cost sales were steady although there are some signs of a slowdown were ahead of last year largely as a result of a strong UK reduction and efficiency measures.
following two good years of growth.
After eliminating the impact of housing market and good growth in underfloor heating Margins have improved each half year for the last two years and as the one-off contract in 2002 for frozen carbonated equipment, overall FL FLUID CONTROLS UID CONTROLS systems.
Raw material prices have increased regularly during business across our major trading regions improves, the reduced cost volumes for the year were similar to last year although second half Severe Service the year creating pressure on margins.
base should enable us to further enhance profitability.
Our Severe Service valves business achieved another year of strong Elsewhere in Polypipe the picture is mixed.
The small European Sales and operating profit for the year were, respectively, 31m and Further cost reduction measures are in process and we have closed organic growth with sales and order intake around 13% higher than businesses are now stable following organisation changes but 10.7m higher than last year.
our facility in Corby in the UK and recently announced the closure of 2002.
Much of the growth is from the oil and gas market where CCI further rationalisation measures may have to be taken in some another of our US manufacturing facilities.
The benefits of the very continues to be the leader in valve applications for LNG Liquified Indoor Climate of the UK businesses.
significant changes we have made, particularly within the US and the Natural Gas receiving and storage terminals.
Strong growth is also After a subdued first half, activity in our Indoor Climate business Despite margin pressures, Polypipe as a whole produced a very move to Mexico, are beginning to materialise.
We expect that the coming from Asia, in particular the Chinese power market.
Although recovered a little, leaving volumes overall for the year marginally ahead creditable performance and cash generation was again initial operational issues at our Reynosa facility will have been resolved new construction power in the US declined, this was offset by gains in of last year.
Balancing valve sales were around 3% higher despite a excellent, with further working capital reductions producing by mid 2004.
We are already seeing the benefits of consolidation in customer service orders.
We continue to benefit generally from plant reduction in the US, which was affected by a combination of the operating cash in excess of operating profit.
our working capital with significant inventory reductions now level upgrades and replacing competitor valves.
impact of a reorganisation of the sales channel and the strengthening Sales and operating profit for the year were, respectively, showing through.
Investment in specialist sales engineers over the last three years has of the euro against the US dollar.
Thermostatic radiator valve volumes 370m 2002: 355m and 33.0m 2002: 33.1m.
Sales and operating profit for the year were, respectively, 34m and fuelled much of the growth in sales.
We intend to reduce the rate of into the German market strengthened in the second half, offering 6.4m lower than last year.
investment in the short term to enable margin enhancement to come some encouragement that the long-term decline is coming to an end.
In addition it is necessary to ensure that operational Sales of Indoor Climate products in Eastern Europe remain strong and, Merchandising Systems efficiencies keep pace with the growth.
As a result, we expect the rate although still small, we have increased our presence in the growing A good performance in Merchandising Systems was helped by a full of top-line growth will be slower over the next couple of years.
Chinese market and have already succeeded in winning a number years contribution from DCI and by the acquisition of Artform in Our recent investment to increase production has resulted in around of projects.
10% of our manufacturing capacity being located in Mexico and The The acquisition of Commtech in February 2003 has provided impetus The increased level of enquiry activity seen in the first half of the year Czech Republic.
to our drive into the service and commissioning business which in continued and is now being reflected in sales.
Our traditional Cannon Fluid Kinetics, purchased in 2003, although impacted by the weaker turn will pull through sales of Indoor Climate products.
Commtech business is showing increasing momentum and improvements in key US power market, brings added technology in noise reduction.
The contributed sales of 22m and profit of 1.2m.
Excluding Commtech, account relationships have played a significant part in producing a synergy benefits from the acquisition of STI in 2002 are showing sales were 147m, operating profit 22.6m and operating margins 15.4%.
very good order book going into 2004.
Display Technologies has through with STI actuation technology now used on 80% of all new enjoyed particular success with its bulk bin food systems.
DCI had an outstanding first full year with volumes significantly ahead RET RETAIL DISPENSE AIL DISPENSE Sales and operating profit for the year were, respectively, 20m and of the previous calendar year.
General custom PoP sales were strong Beverage Dispense 3.0m higher than last year.
and an excellent automotive sector performance was boosted by the Beverage Dispense had a challenging year.
Underlying end markets Scion Toyota programme.
Artforms results since acquisition were in Fluid Power were difficult and operationally the need was to consolidate after the line with our expectations.
Following a first half increase of 12%, sales in our key target sectors heavy programme of product and process transfers effected in the last Cost reductions continue to be achieved with the emphasis on continued to grow and ended the year 13% ahead of 2002.
In the US, the food service sector weakened further as a investment being placed on customer facing activities.
Some the commercial vehicles and medical sectors were particularly result of declining consumer traffic but our soft drinks brand owner outsourcing of components to China has already been implemented encouraging.
Overall volumes elsewhere were up 3% with Asia Pacific business strengthened.
This was largely as a result of recent new and there is scope for further margin enhancement over time.
Order books at the end of the year were around product introductions and we enjoyed particular success this year Sales of 170m and operating profit of 18.2m for the year included 5% higher than December 2002. with our Lipton Tea product.
Our US on-line parts distribution 44m and 3.9m for the additional months of DCI and Artform.
New product development is gaining momentum and the changebusiness, Bevcore, continued its progress and we are confident that out from general sales to more market focused key account managers this business model has considerable potential.
In Europe the first half is continuing.
Operational efficiencies at the Mexican and Czech was generally soft across all regions although demand picked up in 8 Operations review IMI plc Annual Report 2003 9
