14 SECTION FIVE PAGE FOURTEEN OPERATING REVIEW the year ended 30 April 2003 presented no significant barriers to impede our growth or reputation as a provider of robust and quality healthcare applications 15 Overview The iSOFT proposition has been carefully crafted over recent years with Demand for modern healthcare a dedicated focus around the provision software applications in the United of leading applications and, where Kingdom, Ireland and Australasia required, the attendant services for remained buoyant throughout the year.
This strategy has positioned the business I am pleased to report that in all our strongly for the procurement reforms chosen target markets our success currently underway in England.
The in procurements for major hospital comprehensive NHS National system replacements and upgrades Programme for Information Technology resulted in increased market shares in England is in full swing with the for the Group.
awarding of the first of five regional Local Service Provider contracts Business review expected in October 2003.
The past year has been very exciting for iSOFT.
"In my last Operating Review in iSOFT is positioned well as an 2002, I commented that ""I see no application content provider with immediate barriers to the continuation its leading edge technology solution of our operational success"" and indeed complemented by an existing user the year ended 30 April 2003 presented base already operating no significant barriers to impede our modern solutions."
revenue growth or our growing reputation as a provider of robust and Similar NHS IT enhancement quality healthcare applications with a programmes are envisaged for Scotland 52.2% increase in overall revenues year and Wales and I am confident in our on year.
Europe and Asia Pacific, our proposition and positioning in relation to two main geographical regions, both IT modernisation for these markets.
showed significant revenue growth with Europe increasing by 45.8% and Asia We have continued to develop our Pacific by 87.2%.
proposition for the healthcare applications market in Ireland and are now in the position of preferred supplier as the government proceeds with the rollout of its healthcare IT modernisation programme.
OPERATING REVIEW SECTION FIVE PAGE FIFTEEN 16 I am also pleased to report that iSOFT Business integration During the year we have achieved an secured its first customer in China unprecedented number of successful The acquisition of the healthcare during the year.
This win represents a new implementations across our systems business of Northgate significant development in the markets, providing us with an excellent Information Solutions plc on execution of the iSOFT strategy which platform for the further refinement of 31 July 2002 was followed by a rapid includes controlled geographical our delivery model with our partner business integration programme that expansion into new markets where service organisations.
yielded excellent results for iSOFT.
The demand for the iSOFT application results of the acquired business met our A commitment to research and exists.
There are plans to build our expectations in full, with 11.4m of development Asia Pacific business interests further turnover and 2.6m of operating profit During 2003, research and development during 2004. contributed to the Groups overall expenditure increased from 5.3m performance for the year.
In the Australian market, where we On the 28 November 2002 we acquired had already secured a dominant Revive Group Limited, the leading The continuing expansion of our market share, demand remained supplier of e-booking systems in the dedicated application manufacturing buoyant with a number of significant United Kingdom.
This acquisition centre in Chennai, India, gives us new long-term contracts signed provides iSOFT with a strong position in a major competitive advantage in during the year.
an area of the market that has been bringing leading edge technology singled out as a key component of the solutions to market with NHS IT strategy.
unprecedented speed in a highly efficient and competitively In addition to the integration of our costed manner.
major acquisitions, we have continued to improve internal Our  delivery methodologies for implementing cycle time is unrivalled and the decision our applications and supporting to start up a dedicated offshore our customers.
development subsidiary is contributing significantly to maintaining our Across the spectrum of our customer application leadership position.
base, governments in all the modernising healthcare economies are encouraging closer co-operation between service organisations and application content companies.
This development complements our move toward the sale of packaged solutions for delivery and support by third party systems integrators, as either a prime contractor or distributor, and fits well with the provision of modern application systems under current procurement and deployment models.
SECTION FIVE PAGE SIXTEEN OPERATING REVIEW during the year we achieved an unprecedented number of successful new implementations 17 Application design work continues to be In March 2003, we announced plans to We are adept at horizon watching undertaken by staff located in our core migrate our functionality-rich application to ensure that emerging business needs markets, notably the United Kingdom portfolio onto a common platform are incorporated into our applications and Australia, but software manufacture known as LORENZO.
early, in line with new technology has been transferred increasingly to our innovations that provide opportunities Indian operation in Chennai.
for improved function and utility.
LORENZO encompasses all the strength of the existing application Our commitment to the value of We also recognise the value of the family whilst delivering ever greater application development is underlined domain expertise possessed by our processing power, functionality and by the average number of 233 staff customers in terms of healthcare utility for those seeking modern directly employed in the research and business processes and clinical best healthcare application solutions development activities during the year, practice and seek to form collaborative tailored to the requirements of the representing approximately 40% of the working relationships with them.
We are have spent more time and significant planning to continue growing our resources over the past year to improve Our customers and staff capacity in Chennai over the coming our relationship with our customers These are times of great change for our years and, in doing so, increase the through strengthening our service customers.
The heightened proportion of the business resources delivery and user group support.
The expectations of government and dedicated to application innovation competency, ingenuity and commitment citizens as the consumers of healthcare and manufacture.
of our staff is also crucial to the services mean increasing demands on success of these collaborations.
the services provided by healthcare organisations.
In turn, healthcare We have been very pleased with providers place greater emphasis on the performance by many of the their information management systems.
key individuals in the iSOFT team We are grateful to those organisations this year.
In a dynamic and changing that have placed their trust in us to business, we have been able to meet their strategic and operational harness the enthusiasm, flexibility information requirements.
and ability of our staff to move our business positioning The majority of our existing customers forward significantly.
are contracted with us on multi-year arrangements in order to support their strategic information systems requirements.
OPERATING REVIEW SECTION FIVE PAGE SEVENTEEN 18 The Groups share option schemes are It is my belief that iSOFTs operational A key measure of performance used as a motivator for key individuals management and implementation monitored by the Board is staff turnover at all levels in the business.
At the year personnel are unparalleled in their and we are particularly pleased with end, over 7.2m share options had been abilities and commitment.
These maintaining a low staff turnover ratio of issued to 79 staff, some 12.8% of the attributes are shared by their peers 13%, a statistic where we are total workforce employed at the time.
throughout the organisation and are key consistently well below industry norms.
Our July 2002 Sharesave Scheme has factors in the successful integration of It is also important to note that our been widely participated in, with 53% the new acquisitions.
calculation of the ratio includes the of eligible employees in iSOFTs effect of integration activities world-wide locations joining the undertaken in the year with respect to Customer feedback during the year Scheme.
The success of the Scheme acquisitions made.
I believe that this has been very positive regarding our was recognised by the receipt of two result is a clear example of the exciting, ability to meet demanding project ProShare Awards in December 2002 as challenging and rewarding environment delivery schedules on time, to well as being highly commended at the we provide to all our employees.
specification and to the required Employee Benefits Awards ceremony in quality benchmark.
We anticipate that a new 2003 Scheme will result in even wider We are continuing to enhance our employee equity participation.
ASSIST system is a core element of our service offering and we plan to enhance our remote customer support functionality still further in 2003.
Over the year our workforce increased to an average of 580 employees compared to 430 in 2002 and, with the closing employee headcount at 616, we remain committed to expanding our human capital.
iSOFT is a meritocracy and rewards are provided commensurate with an individuals contribution to the Groups overall results.
SECTION FIVE PAGE EIGHTEEN OPERATING REVIEW delivering the integrated care record solution is something that is best done with a truly collaborative approach 19 Partnerships The strength of our relationship In doing so, iSOFT will play an with Microsoft is also evidenced important role in the reform of the We have a continued focus on strong by our recent commitment to modernising healthcare economies technology themes and I am delighted Microsoft.
NET architectures as the over the coming years.
with the ongoing development of our technological basis for our latest close relationship with Microsoft during generation of products.
The value of this relationship was best evidenced in the year by the On a wider partnership theme, iSOFTs selection of iSOFT as one of the 30 approach to business is to view our global launch partners, and the only chosen activities as a series of European software partner, chosen partnerships with customers, Steve Graham by Microsoft for the Windows XP Tablet complementary suppliers and local Chief Operating Officer PC edition operating system launch.
Delivering the integrated care record solution and associated application services is something that is best done with a truly collaborative approach.
iSOFTs clear business strategy and focus on the healthcare market, together with an industrial strength development organisation make us the leading applications provider in the field and, we believe, the company best placed to deliver, in our chosen markets, against the demanding targets set by the modern healthcare economies of the world.
Through our partnerships we will support the realisation of significant efficiency improvements, we will revolutionise the tools that professionals use to deliver healthcare services and help change the way that patients experience the journey of care.
OPERATING REVIEW SECTION FIVE PAGE NINETEEN
