JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:35 pm Page 9 Operational Safety Track Geometry Faults 2002 2003 Operational Safety Percentage Change in Broken Rails Level 2 Exceedences per Equated Track Mile from 2001 02 to 2002 03 0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70 0.80 0.90 1.00 -40.0 -30.0 -20.0 -10.0 0.0 10.0 20.0 30.0 National Avg National Avg Jarvis Jarvis reconditioned locomotives, track renewals response times to incidents and manage Early tests on Clusterbead, a new and renovations, bridge renovations and all renewals and maintenance work more surfacing which improves driver awareness the development of a new locomotive closely and effectively.
Tube Lines will by reflecting colours at night more electronic signalling system.
also be introducing our motorbike-based effectively, have also been positive.
rapid response teams to overcome the The average length of service particular problems of operating in International investment Londons busy streets.
Jarvis international road products across all professional, technical businesses enjoyed another strong year, and skilled employees in our rail Roads with increased turnover.
Management business is around 15 years.
The highways maintenance business infrastructure has been developed to continued to build on the successes of support continued growth.
Our specialist Martin Smith Security on the railways last year and now has a record bid pipeline.
French subsidiary, Prosign, has achieved Jarvis is helping to fight railway crime by The Optima consortium, a joint venture significant progress this year, supported installing a range of close-circuit television between Accord Jarvis and WS Atkins, by moves towards using more Martin is a Street Lighting Attendant CCTV monitoring systems to protect started work on its first MAC managing  water-based paints.
who transferred to Jarvis from Cheshire property, railway infrastructure and rolling agent contract which covers large sections County Council in 1997 as part of the stock at vulnerable locations.
Using the of several key motorways in the Midlands.
We have also established a new office in contract to maintain all the countys latest camera and digital recording Our highways maintenance contract with Atlanta, Georgia, to support our strategy street lights.
As a union steward, technologies, we provide the police with the local authority in Derby has also been of exporting proven specialist road product he was involved in consultations over images of a sufficiently high quality that extended.
Prismos UK manufacturing the initial contract and continues to they can be used as evidence.
Our operation has already sold over 1,000 represent his colleagues in negotiations solutions range from sub-miniature covert Keeping drivers informed tonnes of its Imprint decorative road over pay and conditions.
systems to high-profile deterrent The Government sees better driver surfacing system in the USA.
installations complete with real-time video information as the key to improved safety In truth, when we first transferred out of transmission to remote receiving stations.
and reduced congestion on the UKs road Environmental and street lighting the public sector the majority of us were network.
Techspan, the Jarvis company services very apprehensive: me included.
When Tube Lines starts work which develops electronic information Jarvis has been named as the preferred the contract was let, the Council did In December 2002, financial close was displays, is already leading this drive.
bidder for a pioneering 135 million tenlisten to the preferences of the reached on the Public Private Partnership In July 2002, Techspan won the UKs year programme to deliver a wide range workforce and Prismo subsequently PPP contract for the Tube Lines biggest ever contract for variable message of environmental services to Herefordshire acquired by Jarvis was the first choice consortium which includes Jarvis, Bechtel signs from the Welsh Assembly, worth Council.
Bringing together strengths from for most of us.
Five years on, nearly all and Amey to take over the maintenance 3.8 million.
The initial contract covered across our divisions, we will be responsible of us who transferred are still with the and upgrading of three of Londons key 45 high-resolution, two-colour motorway for providing the community with highways company and I can honestly say that we underground lines: the Jubilee, Northern signs, capable of displaying graphics such and traffic services, fleet management and dont have any major problems with the and Piccadilly Lines.
as road signs as well as text.
The Assembly a range of other support services from way things have worked out.
has since placed orders for more of the street cleaning to recycling services.
Under the PPP, Tube Lines is responsible new-generation signs.
The middle and senior management in for maintaining and upgrading the Towards the end of the year, Jarvis also Jarvis seem to appreciate the workforce, infrastructure, whilst London Underground Advances in road product technology won two three-year contracts to maintain and theyve honoured their remains responsible for actually operating Prismo our specialist road products street lighting: in Brighton and Hove, and commitments, for example to reduce the Underground, as well as employing business continues to invest in North Ayrshire.
The Brighton and Hove our working hours and maintain our drivers and station staff, managing ticketing developing innovative new technologies.
contract involved the transfer of staff to terms and conditions.
From the union and fares, and overseeing the Tubes safety This year the company opened a new, Jarvis and the maintenance of 72,000 perspective, our working relationship regime.
Tube Lines has begun a massive state-of-the-art manufacturing and research street lights.
In North Ayrshire, we are with the company has been much more improvement programme, committing over facility in Chorley, Lancashire, to support carrying out general and special of a partnership than battle lines drawn.
4.4 billion to improving the three lines its continued expansion.
maintenance for 21,500 street lights Issues are resolved quite amicably.
over the first seven years of the contract.
In return, the partners will receive Prospects for the new Rippleprint traffic Legislation is constantly changing, significant, steady income streams over calming surface, developed in association These contracts are an important particularly on health and safety.
So if we the life of the contract.
with the governments transport research milestone in our strategy to offer a broad ever need any training or anything else laboratories, look excellent.
Although range of added value services to the local related to H&S then we get it, no problem.
Extending control centre technology Rippleprint creates noise and vibration to authority market, building on our existing In some ways our work is more The Jarvis control centre team is assisting alert the driver, it is virtually silent to highways maintenance and facilities interesting now.
We dont just maintain Tube Lines to create a dedicated London everyone else.
Rippleprint has undergone management capabilities.
the Councils street lighting, but we can Control Centre to support the contract, this over two years of detailed speed, noise also be working on other contracts, such will give the three London Underground and vibration trials and has been approved as at the Shell Stanlow oil refinery, on lines covered by the Tube Lines by a number of major county councils and new housing developments or signage programme access to Jarvis Control Centre constabularies.
technology, to significantly improve 08 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 09 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:35 pm Page 11 Operating review Jarvis Accommodation Services 19% increase in divisional turnover to delivers foundation modern apprenticeships student bedrooms.
The portfolio consists Ben Boyle 331.0 million 2002: 278.5 million for 16 and 17 year olds was officially of eight halls of residence and involved the opened by HRH The Duke of York.
We now transfer of 104 NTU employees to Jarvis.
Facilities support services commenced have 183 schools under management or in Ben is the Site Manager at at 34 new schools and universities this development, through both Private Finance In February 2003, Nottingham University Northumberland Park Community academic year Initiatives and Public Private Partnerships.
appointed Jarvis in a similar capacity for its School in Haringey, North London.
1,350-room Broadgate Park campus and we He and his team two assistants and 14 39% increase in facilities management Schools in the community were also appointed for a further 400-bed part-time cleaners look after all aspects turnover to 49.8 million 2002: 35.8 The schools we develop and manage scheme at the University of Reading.
At the of maintenance, building management million increasingly incorporate facilities that latter, we will be refurbishing and managing and security.
He has 23 years experience benefit the wider community.
For example, 184 existing rooms and developing a further in the job, and has been part of Jarvis All of the above joint ventures contributions the Headlands Martongate school campus 245 new en-suite rooms on the site, under since 2001.
Ben is also the local which are reviewed further below.
in Bridlington, Yorkshire, features a new a 35-year contract.
This win builds on the representative for the GMB union and community library, delivered six months successful Reading Student Village project, serves as a school governor.
Over the past year, Jarvis Accommodation ahead of schedule in November 2002. which we delivered in September 2000.
Services has continued its consistent record In addition Jarvis partnership with nursery Although I and my team work for Jarvis, of growth, with turnover increasing by 19% school provider Asquith Court is also Overall signs remain encouraging for this theres still a strong public service ethos to 331.0 million and operating profits by helping to deliver state-of-the-art early sector for the coming year, as we continue about what we do.
The divisions forward years provision on several contracts this to develop potential projects with both new responsibilities very seriously: whether order book including projects at the year, including in Brighton and Hove and and existing clients.
were dealing with the governing body preferred bidder stage has reached a record the London Borough of Richmond.
on health and safety issues, doing regular level of 4.2 billion.
Health checks on the fire protection or electrical The new Balfron High School in The UK Governments priorities for the NHS equipment, or unblocking a toilet.
Importantly, a growing number of projects are shifting towards more local care, away Stirlingshire won the 2002 have moved into the facilities management from big general hospitals, which, coupled The main difference from when we Scottish Deals PFI PPP Project of FM phase, producing long-term revenue with their commitment to new forms of worked for the Council is that there are the Year.
FM dedicated healthcare systems such as more formal systems.
The health and turnover grew by 39% to 49.8 million in diagnostic and treatment centres, means safety systems are very good, for the period.
The range and depth of FM and In March 2003 we reached financial close we are well positioned to deliver the instance.
Jarvis is also a good company support services that we provide from on a contract to design, build and operate facilities that such changes require.
in the way it treats its staff.
It listens property management to building three Special Education Needs high schools when we have suggestions and ideas maintenance, catering to cleaning, capital for Salford City Council.
The project will Enabling the NHS of the future for improvement.
life cycle management to Information and involve developing medical as well as In January 2003, we reached financial close Communication Technology continues educational facilities, to support children on Englands first purpose-built PFI Jarvis is responsible for the schools to grow.
with a wide range of educational, physical, Ambulatory Care Centre, for Sandwell and electricity bill, so Im currently working emotional and behavioural needs.
West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust.
with one of our specialists to see how The JFS School in London, a newThe centre will provide a series of walk-in we can achieve cost reductions over the Looking forward, the Governments health clinics, transforming the way that lifetime of the contract, without risking build secondary school for 200 commitment to modernise all secondary patients are diagnosed and treated for a quality or safety.
pupils, won the 2002 Public schools within the next 10 to 15 years wide range of out-patient services.
Private Finance Award for Best means we are in a strong position to One of the most rewarding things is Education Project.
In the same maximise our growth potential in this area.
Work has also started on a new 60-bed seeing how the improved facilities awards, Debden Park High School community hospital in West Berkshire, deliver benefits for the children.
Where Improved accommodation for students to replace two existing facilities in Newbury, Jarvis has refurbished or built new was a finalist for Best Design in Jarvis manages, provides, or is in and on the new acute facility for the parts of the school, the nice working an Education Project, and the negotiation to provide, accommodation Whittington Hospital in North London.
environment, with bright, airy rooms, Army Foundation College in for more than 20,000 students in the UK.
Here Jarvis is providing a state-of-the-art really does help raise academic Harrogate was also a finalist, for Lancaster University has appointed Jarvis new building to house a whole range of standards and reduce vandalism.
Best MoD Project over 20 million.
for a major accommodation programme, medical services: from diagnostics and day Thats were PFI comes into its own.
for up to 4,426 student bedrooms.
Work is surgery to critical care and cardiology.
Education also now well under way on Londons In total, Jarvis commenced the provision largest new student village, in Greenwich, of facilities support services to 34 new, to provide 948 student bedrooms and refurbished or existing schools and associated teaching facilities.
universities during this academic year.
For example, the new Jews Free School in At the beginning of the year, Jarvis London was opened by the Prime Minister completed Englands largest ever higher in October 2002, and the Army Foundation education estate transfer with Nottingham College at Harrogate in Yorkshire which Trent University NTU, totalling 2,326 10 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 11 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:35 pm Page 13 James Teggart As a Mechanical Technician at the flats When the students are away in the Manchester Student Village, James is holidays, well redecorate and refurbish.
part of a team of 20 Jarvis staff working over two main sites.
The Village offers We maintain high standards.
I wouldnt put purpose-built accommodation, anything in a students room that I wouldnt providing over 1,000 affordable student have in my own home.
But at the same rooms in the centre of Manchester.
time we try to repair, refurbish and clean James previously worked in a things up wherever possible, rather than residential home for the elderly and in just throwing them away.
The thing I appreciate most about working for Jarvis is the fact that Im trusted to get on with my own work and to prioritise.
We are developing an innovative property.
We will also set up a new training Jarvis Fleet Management I pride myself on being organised, and my management unit, creating 100 new jobs The specially modified fleet of vehicles supervisor usually lets me finish the job design approach for primary within Jarvis, as part of a wider for transient workforce crews developed once Ive started it, so things get done.
schools, based around a number development programme in the area.
over several years by Jarvis Fleet But if I ever need more qualified help of standard components, designed Management continues to evolve and is to change a cooker element for instance to offer flexibility and value for Support for emergency services proving particularly successful with users, the electrician who works across the two money.
Shortly before the year end, Jarvis reached safety regulators and fleet operators.
sites will come and give me a hand.
financial close on a contract to provide The vehicles are now not only being used The teamwork is excellent.
Local authorities six new fire stations, a new brigade across our own rail operations, but have As local authorities continue to look for best headquarters and technical services centre also led to Jarvis Fleet Management My own work is a mix of reactive and value, improved service delivery and ways for the Tyne and Wear Fire and Civil creating a new company, JFM Hire, which planned maintenance.
Most days Ill be to address inadequate and inappropriate Defence Authority.
This 25 year PFI supplies them to external customers on repairing water leaks and showers, property portfolios, many are turning to new contract has a whole life value of 87 short-term hire, contract hire or outright resetting boiler clocks, changing bulbs or types of outsourcing models.
With our wide million and is a logical extension of Jarvis purchase.
The JFM Hire customer base shower heads, testing electrical equipment experience of white and blue-collar assetexperience with other public sector includes a wide range of organisations, like the toasters, kettles, microwaves and based services, Jarvis can provide the partnerships in education, health and local from emergency services, government cookers which Jarvis supplies in all the expertise and management resources to authorities.
and local authorities, to utility companies, deliver these new kinds of partnerships.
construction firms and other rail Smithfield Office Building maintenance companies.
Outsourcing innovation This year saw the start of the construction Our developing partnership with of our new headquarter offices near Braddons Herefordshire Council is an excellent Smithfield Market in the City of London.
In August 2002, Jarvis acquired a 51% example of the breadth of integrated These new, modern and efficient offices shareholding in Braddons International Ltd, services we can deliver.
As well as will enable us to consolidate our existing an insurance risk management business.
highways, traffic and fleet management offices from within the London region.
The acquisition enables us to bring in-house services, we will be providing catering Staff from our group head office and two specialist insurance and risk management for schools and civic offices, grounds major operating divisions will be based skills used across the Group, by employing maintenance, building management and there, in a building which can Braddons specialist skill set.
In addition to maintenance, cleaning and other support accommodate up to 1,100 people within its retained work with the company, services.
A total of 520 staff will transfer the 101,000 square feet of office space Braddons will continue to provide insurance to Jarvis under TUPE regulations.
to be available over the five floors.
The risk services for third parties.
ground floor and basement will be offered We have also been appointed by Liberata to let for retail and leisure facilities.
We Jarvis Education Services plc to provide a range of FM and property expect to complete construction and take In October 2002, Jarvis entered into an management services to Redcar & up occupancy of the offices in the second agreement with a team of educational Cleveland Borough Council, as part of a quarter of 2004. and business professionals to develop major outsourcing partnership with the the education support services business, council.
This ground-breaking public private Plant hire Jarvis Education Services JES.
JES will project is designed to transform the quality Our plant hire subsidiary, On Track Plant enable the Group to provide Government, and delivery of local authority services in OTP, provides plain line and switch and Local Authorities and schools with the a wide range of areas: from social services crossing tampers and ballast regulators for expertise needed to develop enhanced and education to council tax and benefits hire, OTP currently owns aproximately 25% standards of educational performance.
of all such machines registered to work In 2003, JES was awarded its first contract on the UK rail infrastructure.
The current by the DfES to provide support to Local Laganside Courts, Belfast, a 16- market remains buoyant with OTP able Education Authorities through the new to track and respond to changes and School Improver Advisor Programme.
court complex and associated opportunities.
Whilst competition has JES works directly with Local Education court service facilities, won the increased, OTP has managed to maintain Authorities and Government to provide Liam McCormack Prize for its market share through improvements support for schools.
Building of the Year 2002 at the to service, responsiveness and continued RSUA Design Awards.
investment in new technology including the fitting of computerised lining equipment.
As part of our property management service worth around 90 million over the Looking into next year OTP are currently ten-year life of the programme Jarvis will well placed to benefit from the extended manage Redcar & Clevelands property blockades on the West Coast Main Line.
portfolio to generate additional capital for the council, and provide building services, cleaning and security for all non-housing 12 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 13 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:35 pm Page 15 Sarah Yarker Operating review Sarah is a Technical Specialist working at county and the design needed to cater Were bringing a growing number of Agilisys state-of-the-art Demonstration for a number of different offices and actual and potential customers here to Agilisys Centre Access 24:7 at York Universitys systems being networked together, not show them technology that might be Innovation Centre.
She joined Jarvis least understanding the groups of people relevant to their needs and get a better when she graduated from York who would be accessing the system.
University and has worked in a variety of project management, IT and systemsAfter the bid had been submitted I Bringing customers here also helps us related roles in Jarvis and now Agilisys.
worked for a while in an account to talk about the total solution we offer management role, then I started to and see the way we work.
For us, The different jobs Ive had in Jarvis have get involved in the Access 24:7 technology is an enabler, its not the given me good exposure to the various Demonstration Centre, managing the only part of the answer.
Understanding parts of the business.
When Agilisys was technology platform.
Initially Access and getting the change management formed as a joint venture, I transferred 24:7 was set up as a proof of concept and business processes right is critical automatically.
Initially, I was part of the for the North Yorkshire bid, and its to the success of a solution.
Were Joint venture, producing turnover of Agilisys offers best-in-class solutions expert technology enables it to help such bid team for the North Yorkshire project, proved very popular.
Its much more challenging them to think about this 24.1 million for Jarvis in its first full without the need for major new investment.
organisations improve their services to specialising in the communications powerful to show people technology and thereby the application of financial year customers and re-engineer their backinfrastructure.
This spans the whole in action, than simply to write about it.
Agilisys aims to provide complete solutions, offices.
Preferred partner for exclusive including one-stop-shops for public services, negotiation on major business process 24:7 contact centres, Internet and Jarvis-MPC, an operation, which supplies outsourcing bid interactive digital TV, advanced telephony IT services to schools, has also had a and mobile access.
successful year, winning contracts with Strong order book and bid pipeline Surrey Schools and Staffordshire County The Agilisys Access 24:7 Council among others.
The business now Groundbreaking contract to transform supports more than 2,000 schools across demonstration centre in York is Local Government services in North the country and has achieved a five-fold a unique opportunity for existing Yorkshire increase in turnover from 2.5 million to and potential customers to see 16m since acquisition.
and experience how technology Agilisys Jarvis joint venture with the systems integration and web technology and business processes combine Streamlining internal processes company, netdecisions Limited was Agilisys not only supports external to deliver public services 24 hours established in 2002 to deliver front-line customers, but is also responsible for a day, seven days a week service improvements in Jarvis core public providing information and communications sector markets, particularly local technology support for Jarvis, as well as government and schools.
Agilisys helps Breakthrough in e-government key business processes.
Over the past public sector organisations move towards Less than a year after it was formed, Agilisys year the business has been responsible the goal of e-government by improving has achieved its first major success.
The for both the implementation of new IT their services as well as extending public company has been named as the preferred projects to expand capacity aswell as a access to these.
partner for a groundbreaking contract to continuing cycle of process improvements transform local government services in the to leverage benefit from the investment Since its creation in April 2002, Agilisys North Yorkshire area.
Between them, the in the Oracle platform.
has been shortlisted for several high-profile nine councils involved in the programme partnerships both separately and in serve a population of over 750,000.
This conjunction with other Jarvis businesses.
National Pathfinder project the first of its With a strong management team and a kind in the UK will involve pooling the rigorous approach to risk management now councils resources to help them deliver a in place, the company is beginning to reap wide range of their services more efficiently the rewards of its parents investment.
and cost-effectively and will use Agilisys innovative Shared Sourcing model.
Agilisys already supports over 17 customers with back-office accounting Over the ten-year contract, Agilisys will services, and provides ICT and support provide everything from self-service services to thousands of schools.
kiosks and interactive web sites to backCustomers for its managed services office systems, supporting a range of division which maintains websites, front-line services.
A change programme amongst other vital jobs include involving over 20,000 staff is planned and international telecoms operators and Agilisys will also manage the business financial services businesses.
process re-engineering, change management, training and development Extending the partnership model needed to ensure the success of this The Agilisys approach is to develop real ambitious project.
and lasting partnerships and goes beyond traditional outsourcing.
For example, The websites maintained by it might involve pooling the resources and Agilisys managed services systems of several local authorities, division receive over 500 million or setting up collective supply chain hits a year management initiatives.
Typically these services are delivered through individual joint ventures with the client or clients, Enhancing public sector services to maximise accountability and economies Other councils and public bodies are of scale.
By streamlining business turning to Agilisys for their expertise in processes and using component-based delivering change.
Agilisys public sector software, designed for easy integration, know how, private sector experience and 14 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 15 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:35 pm Page 17 Financial review Results Operating Profit loss Dividends Dividends Tube Lines transfer to Amey, along with a further The results reflect a year of strong Turnover profit loss before tax received The Board proposes a final dividend of 8.5 On 31 December 2002, the Tube Lines 16.67% interest presently held by Bechtel, progress.
Total turnover for the year m m m m pence per share 2002: 7.5 pence per consortium, in which the Group is a onethe third consortium member.
including share of joint ventures grew by Year ended 31 March 2003 share, which brings the total in respect of third participant, achieved financial close 28%, from 949.4 million to 1,217.2 Agilisys 24.1 0.1 0.5 - the financial year to 13.0 pence per share of the contract with London Underground Banking facilities and treasury risk million.
Within this, the Groups share of Tube Lines 41.4 5.7 3.2 0.4 2002: 11.5 pence per share.
This is Limited and started work on the major management joint venture turnover increased from 44.7 Other Infrastructure Services 28.1 2.9 2.3 - covered 2.5 times by Group earnings programme to improve the Jubilee, The Groups mainstream debt facilities million to 111.7 million mainly as a result PFI UPP 17.3 1.8 1.0 - before amortisation of goodwill and Northern and Piccadilly lines.
At financial principally comprise funds raised from a of the commencement of the Agilisys and Other 0.8 0.8 1.0 - undistributed profits of joint ventures close, the Group recovered some 32 private placement in the US debt market Tube Lines joint ventures see below.
The Companys dividend million of bid costs in relation to this and facilities with its UK relationship banks.
Group operating profit before goodwill policy is addressed further in the project incurred during the year and in amortisation increased by 27% from 62.5 Year ended 31 March 2002 Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3. previous years.
The US private placement comprises a million to 79.6 million.
Group operating Other Infrastructure Services 32.9 1.6 1.6 0.3 total of 111.0 million from six major US margins before goodwill amortisation were PFI UPP 11.6 1.5 1.0 - Cash flow and balance sheet The Group has a direct one-third interest institutions.
The debt comprises four series 7.2% 2002: 6.9%.
Other 0.2 0.1 0.2 - The operating cash inflow for the year in the consortium holding company Tube of fixed interest rate loan notes of up to 44.7 3.0 0.4 0.3 was 58.4 million 2001: 51.5 million Lines Holdings Limited TLH which in seven years remaining duration, with a Within Infrastructure Services, Rail representing 73% of operating profits turn owns 100% of the share capital of the redemption profile commencing in 2005 turnover increased 28% to 599.6 million before amortisation of goodwill.
This has operating company Tube Lines Limited and an overall average remaining term of and operating profit was 44.5 million been achieved at a time of continuing, TLL.
Financing totalling some 1.9 billion 5.5 years on a weighted average basis.
Operating margins Group net interest charges were 11.5 valuation.
The next valuation will be strong organic growth, with its associated has been arranged for the project within Amounts denominated in US dollars were were 7.4% 2002: 6.9%.
Roads turnover million 2002: 8.8 million and interest on undertaken as at 31 December 2004. working capital requirements.
Working TLH and TLL: this is non-recourse to Jarvis swapped into sterling for the term of the increased 15% to 174.7 million and mainstream Group debt excluding nonContribution increases required for other capital increased during the year from or its fellow consortium members and relevant notes.
The Groups UK facilities operating profit was 11.3 million: recourse debt in subsidiary undertakings pension schemes amount to approximately 74.8 million to 103.3 million, including comprises both senior and mezzanine comprise 124.0 million of revolving credit operating margins were 6.5% 2002: is approximately seven times covered by 400,000 per annum.
an increase in the pension credit of 7.2 debt, including facilities that have been and overdraft facilities, arranged with five 7.0%.
The Division also benefited from a operating profit before goodwill million which is a non cash item.
banks for working capital purposes.
Further pension credit of 7.2 million 2002: 7.3 amortisation 2002: seven times.
Valuations of the various pension schemes smaller facilities have been arranged locally million, as reported further in notes 4 & 5 show surpluses in aggregate on a funding The net cash outflow on fixed assets Jarvis has accounted for its interest in TLH for overseas businesses.
The Group also to the financial statements.
Accounting policies and basis of basis and under SSAP 24.
An aggregate was 8.3 million 2002: 11.8 million.
as a joint venture under FRS 9.
A Jarvis maintains facilities in the surety market for preparation deficit of 43.2 million net of deferred tax In addition, 5.2 million of fixed assets subsidiary also provides people and performance bonds in respect of a number Turnover in the Accommodation Services The financial statements have been arises on an FRS 17 valuation basis.
This were acquired under finance leases in expertise to the project under a of its operating businesses.
All of these Division increased by 19% to 331.0 prepared in accordance with UK results principally from the valuation of the year 2002: nil.
The principal areas Secondment Agreement with TLL.
Operating profit was 21.0 million Accounting Standards and the Groups investments which mainly comprise of expenditure were on the provision of results of this contract are reported within has an amortising facility, secured on 2002: 17.1 million : operating margins principal accounting policies, which are equities at 31 March 2003 market values, a new manufacturing plant for the road the Rail activities of the Infrastructure certain items of plant, with a balance were 6.3% 2002: 6.1%.
set out in note 1 to the financial which was a particularly low ebb in recent products business and ongoing Services Division.
outstanding of 14.6 million at 31 March statements.
There have been no changes stock market values.
The methodology replacement of plant and equipment 2003.
It had finance lease obligations of The Systems and Technologies Division to the accounting policies during the year.
underlying FRS 17, including the valuation across all businesses.
Free cash flow The financing of Jarvis investment in TLH, 6.0 million at the year end.
includes the costs in respect of the of investments at current market values, operating cash flow plus joint venture together with certain other aspects of the Groups Business Management Pension Schemes tends to produce a high level of volatility dividends, less fixed assets purchases Tube Lines project, is supported by letters It is the Groups policy that interest rate Transformation BMT project 3.9 million: Jarvis continues to account for pension when reporting under this Standard.
and disposals, taxation and interest was of credit LCs against which partial cash hedges should be maintained so as to 2002: 4.1 million.
The results of the costs in accordance with SSAP 24 Approximately 84% of the assets are 24.2 million 2002: 18.5 million.
The total keep between 40 and 60 per cent of its Agilisys joint venture are explained further until such time as there is a date for invested in equities.
The Trustees have amount of LCs arranged as at 31 March core borrowings at fixed interest rates.
implementation of FRS 17 or an alternative maintained the overall principles of their Net debt excluding non-recourse debt 2003 was 63.7 million with associated The Group therefore enters into derivative Standard.
Details of the pension investment policy and the level of equity increased from 79.7 million at 31 March cash collateral of 27.2 million: a net transactions, principally currency and After allowing for goodwill amortisation of arrangements operated by the Group investment reflects the low average age 2002 to 83.3 million at 31 March 2003. amount of 36.5 million.
interest rate swaps and forward foreign 8.4 million 2002: 8.1 million, Group together with the additional more detailed of scheme members and the small Equity shareholders funds increased from currency contracts, to manage the operating profit increased 31% from 54.4 disclosure required by the transitional numbers who are current pensioners.
On this Further details of the above are given in currency and interest rate risks arising million to 71.2 million.
Profit before tax arrangements under FRS 17 are set out basis year-end gearing was 36% 2002: note 31 i and ii to the accounts.
from the Groups operations and its increased 37% to 62.7 million 2002: in note 5 to the accounts.
The above amounts are net of 35.1 Information regarding the results and sources of finance.
principal defined benefit schemes have The Groups tax charge represents 30% million 2002: nil, which is held in balance sheet of TLH is given in note 14 i. speculation in financial instruments is recently been subject to new triennial of taxable profits before amortisation of charged deposit accounts to secure certain undertaken.
Activity through joint ventures increased actuarial valuations.
The largest scheme goodwill which is not tax deductible.
These relate Through the Groups investment in Amey substantially during the year following in which the Group participates is the This compares with 27% in 2002 where principally to the Tube Lines project.
Tube Limited ATL see note 31 iii to the The Groups overseas subsidiaries are the commencement of trading by Agilisys Railways Pensions Scheme RPS.
The the Group benefited primarily from a Standby letters of credit have also been financial statements, the Group also has a partly funded by way of currency in April 2002 and the Tube Lines actuaries to this scheme have advised that, release of tax provisions made in prior issued in relation to this project see further 16.67% equity interest in TLH and borrowings, thus reducing the impact of consortium in January 2003.
The impact also taking into account changes in stock years that were no longer required and tax below.
If these letters of credit are added has arranged associated LC facilities.
This movements in exchange rates on the of these and the share of our other joint market values up to February 2003, no relief on the contribution to the Groups to the net debt stated above, gearing at 31 equity interest has not been included in the Group balance sheet.
Wherever material ventures and associates included in the changes to contributions were required in Qualifying Employee Share Trust QUEST March 2003 is increased to 64%.
financial statements as Amey are expected transactions are undertaken, the currency financial statements can be summarised respect of the Groups participation in this which is tax deductible.
No contribution to to accede to the project by 30 June 2003 risk is hedged.
as follows: scheme as a result of the new actuarial the QUEST was made in 2003. at which stage the equity interest will 16 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 17 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:35 pm Page 19 Five year record Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 restated restated restated m m m m m Group turnover 1,105.5 904.7 698.8 650.2 605.4 Profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 71.1 54.1 34.0 34.2 38.4 Private Finance Initiative PFI and similar Goodwill amortisation 8.4 8.1 8.3 8.4 7.1 projects and associated treasury risk Exceptional items - 0.2 0.9 2.5 0.4 management Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 62.7 45.8 24.8 28.3 31.7 Taxation 21.6 14.5 8.7 8.2 9.2 The Groups PFI and other privately funded projects involve the Group in arranging finance Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 41.1 31.3 16.1 20.1 22.5 as part of the overall project service.
Individual Retained profit for the period 20.5 14.5 1.5 6.9 9.8 projects are undertaken by Special Purpose Companies SPCs, which may be wholly owned subsidiaries or, more usually, joint Capital and reserves ventures with other parties.
These SPCs Equity shareholders funds 229.3 198.4 178.6 176.3 164.0 contract with end-users for the provision of serviced facilities and also arrange funding, construction, facilities management services Basic earnings per share 27.7p 22.2p 11.2p 14.8p 17.5p and, where required, operational support for Diluted earnings per share 27.5p 21.9p 11.0p 14.4p 16.7p the project.
Basic earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 33.7p 28.2p 17.9p 19.2p 22.7p Subsidiary SPCs also arrange project funding Dividends per share 13.0p 11.5p 10.0p 9.5p 9.5p on a basis which is non-recourse to the rest Equity shareholders funds per share 162p 141p 130p 121p 123p of the Group.
At 31 March 2003, such debt amounted to 20.6 million 2002: 25.3 The 1999 comparative figures have been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy regarding PFI projects, introduced in 2000. million and is included in the Group balance sheet using a linked presentation as permitted The 2001 and 2000 comparative figures have been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy regarding pre-contract costs, by FRS 5 Reporting the Substance of introduced in 2002, following UITF abstract 34.
Shareholders Shareholders Shares Shares In the case of joint venture undertakings and Shareholders at 31 March 2003 Number % Number % similar activities, the Groups share of the Range of holdings of ordinary 5p shares gross assets and liabilities which may in the 1 - 10,000 6,559 93.1 7,740,882 5.4 entity be accounted for under FRS 5 linked 10,001 - 100,000 341 4.8 10,989,241 7.8 presentation are reflected separately in the 100,001 - 250,000 66 0.9 10,168,342 7.2 Group balance sheet under the provisions of Over 250,000 82 1.2 112,696,544 79.6 FRS 9.
7,048 100.0 141,595,009 100.0 The potential interest rate risks are inherently long term, as loans will be repaid out of income, which is either fixed in absolute terms, or relative to a given index e. g. RPI typically over 25 years or more.
The SPC either negotiates fixed interest rates for the whole term of its facility on a basis which matches the nature of the income from which the facility is to be repaid or arranges an appropriate interest rate swap to achieve a similar effect.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Robert Kendall Finance Director 11 June 2003 18 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 19 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 21 Non-Executives Executives Executive Team Owen Luder 74 Professor Steven Norris 58 Anthony Kevin Hyde 57 Rob Johnson 45 Robert Kendall 50 Paris Moayedi 64 Andrew Sutton 46 Geoff Mason 49 Alistair Rae 44 Bernard Westbrook Non-executive Brian Mellitt 63 Senior Non-executive Cunningham 55 Chief Executive Group Commercial Group Finance Chairman Chief Executive of Company Secretary Director of Corporate 56 Director Non-executive Director and Chief Executive of Director Director Jarvis Accommodation Affairs Group Human Director and Chairman of the Audit Jarvis Infrastructure Services Resources Director Chairman of the and Nomination Services Remuneration Committees Committee has served two terms is Non-executive has a degree in Law has over 30 years has over 30 years trained as a surveyor is a Chartered held a number of has over 25 years joined Jarvis in 1999, joined Jarvis as is a qualified and as President of the Chairman of BRE plc, and spent most of his experience in experience in the and has 25 years Accountant who senior management experience within the having been the Director of Corporate seasoned personnel Royal Institute of SIRA Ltd and Rail early life in the motor contracting in the UK, international railway general management trained with KPMG positions with AMEC construction industry.
Company Secretary Affairs last year, from professional.
Personnel and engineering the Middle East and industry.
Senior experience of and worked in plc from 1964 to He qualified as a of Sema Group plc HSBC Investment joining the Jarvis Owen is currently International Hong business.
After joining management engineering projects London and Tokyo.
He joined member of the from 1991.
Geoffs Bank plc, where he Group in 1997 he Chairman of the Kong.
He is the Parliament in 1983 Jarvis in 1995, he positions have both in the UK and He held various Walter Lawrence Chartered Institute of career encompasses had been a Director in spent over 30 years in Architects Immediate Past and was Minister of became Managing included Chief overseas, with finance positions with Project Management Building in 1980 and some 20 years in IT their corporate the railway industry, Registration Board, President of the Transport in London Director of the Executive Officer of additional experience Jarvis from 1990 to Limited in 1983 as subsequently read and Facilities finance division for holding a number of the regulatory Institution of Electrical from 1992 to 1996.
Northern Construction New Zealand in property 1994 and was the Managing Director law, being called to Management five years.
Prior to senior posts in the authority for the Engineers.
He retired from Division of Jarvis Railways Corporation, development, Company Secretary before leaving to set the Bar in 1994, businesses, HSBC, he worked for personnel function.
architectural Additionally, he has Parliament in 1997 Construction UK Ltd. Chairman and Chief acquisitions, change of Jarvis plc from up Team Services plc joining Jarvis at the commencing with Cazenove & Co. for As Group Personnel profession.
He has acted as Rail Adviser and became Director He transferred to the Executive Officer of management and 1994 to 1999.
He Scicon Limited, CAP ten years, in their Director of British Rail also at times served to N M Rothschild for General of the Road Rail Division in 1997 Kowloon Canton project finance.
Robs was appointed Jarvis as Chief previously served as Group plc and corporate finance Infrastructure on the Construction international railway Haulage Association.
and was Managing Railway Corporation, career spans Director of Finance Executive in Group Commercial subsequently Sema department in London Services, he was Industry Board and restructuring projects.
He is now Senior Director of Jarvis Rail Hong Kong and positions with John in 1999 and Group November 1994 and and Legal Director Group.
Geoff has a and as Managing heavily involved in the Construction Industry He has previously Partner at Park Place prior to his Executive Director Laing, Sobea Spei Finance Director in was appointed before being broad range of quoted Director of their Asian railway privatisation Council.
He ran his held positions as Communications, appointment as Chief with Adtranz ABB Capag, Fairclough, February 2001.
Chairman in May appointed to his company experience.
own architectural Professor of Electrical a consultancy Executive of Jarvis Daimler Benz Lawrence Project 2003.
He is a current position in He is a fellow of the Hong Kong.
Alistair practice for 30 years Engineering at the specialising in Infrastructure Transportation in Management Limited member of the August 2001.
Jarvis Institute of Chartered qualified as a until 1987, during University of transport and the built Services, the division Berlin.
Kevin headed and Team plc before Nomination Accommodation Secretaries.
chartered accountant which time he was Birmingham and environment and is which combines the up Jarvis joining Jarvis in 1996.
Services is with KPMG in 1983. responsible for the Director of a leading authority Groups Rail and Infrastructure Rob was appointed to responsible for the planning, design and Engineering for on transport policy Highways Services until his the Jarvis Board in Groups Facilities construction for many London Underground and planning.
He is a businesses, in August appointment as Chief October 2002 and will Management and major projects in the Limited: from 1995 to member of the Audit, 2001.
He joined the Operating Officer in offer himself for Construction activities UK and abroad.
In 1999 he was the Nomination and main Board of Jarvis August 2001, he election at this years as well as PFI PPP 1987, he established Director of Remuneration at this time.
He is a succeeded Paris Annual General and University an independent Engineering and Committees.
fellow of the Institute Moayedi as Chief Meeting.
Rob is also Partnership Projects.
consultancy to Production and a of Highways and Executive Officer in a Director of Tube At this years Annual organisations within main Board member Transportation.
His Lines Holdings General Meeting, the construction for Railtrack plc.
Brian is also a Director of extensive commercial Limited.
He has been was appointed to the Tube Lines Holdings and international retiring by rotation, a Non-executive Jarvis Board in Limited.
experience is and as such will be Director since 1995, October 2002 and as invaluable in taking offering himself for he is a member of such he will offer the Group forward re-election.
the Audit, Nomination himself for election at overseas as well as in and Remuneration the Annual General the UK.
He is a retiring by rotation will offer himself for member of the Audit, this year and will offer re-election at this Nomination and himself for re-election years Annual General Remuneration at this years Annual Meeting.
Board Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Executive Committee 20 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 21 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 23 Our teams and advisers Directors report Jarvis Accommodation Jarvis Infrastructure Services Division Services Division Secretary Bankers Kevin Hyde Paul Milner Kevin Hyde Andrew Martin Principal activities and business review Fidelity International Limited 14.02% Details of the Directors remuneration, Geoff Mason Barclays Bank plc Chairman Director of Legal Chairman Managing Director, The principle activities of the Group during M&G Investment 5.43% shareholding and options over shares in 54 Lombard Street Affairs Prismo Ltd the financial period under review continued Management Limited the Company are given in the Directors Registered Office London EC3V 9EX Andrew Sutton Anthony to be facilities management, the design, Zurich Financial 3.04% remuneration report on pages 60 to 65.
Frogmore Park Chief Executive Rob Ward Cunningham Mick McKeever construction and operation of capital Services Limited Watton at Stone Royal Bank of Director of Human Chief Executive Managing Director, projects and plant hire.
Legal and General Investment 3.01% All Executive Directors who served during Hertford Scotland plc Alan Birch Resources Major Project Management Ltd the year have service agreements with the SG14 3RU 135 Bishopsgate Commercial Martin Brazier Delivery Results and dividends Company, details of which are given in the London EC2M Director David Wylde Commercial The profit after taxation for the financial Directors Directors remuneration report.
Company 3UR Managing Director, Director Martin Northard period attributable to shareholders, dealt The names of the Directors who held Registration Richard Clancy David Wylde Director of Human with in the consolidated accounts, office on 31 March 2003 are as follows: Corporate governance Registered in Solicitors Finance Director Project Finance Noel Broadbent Resources amounted to 39.1 million 2002: 30.7 Ms S Coutu Non-executive resigned This is the subject of a separate report on England Eversheds Director of million.
The Directors recommend 31 March 2003 pages 66 to 69 which forms an integral No.
2238084 Senator House Clive Crawford Compliance & John payment of a final dividend of 8.5p 2002: Mr A Cunningham part of this annual report and is intended to 85 Queen Victoria Managing Director, Standards Worthington 7.5p, representing an increase of 13% and Mr K O Hyde address the requirements of the Combined Registrars Street UPP Managing Director, giving a total dividend for the year of 13.0p Mr R N Johnson appointed 3 October Code which is incorporated in the Listing Lloyds TSB London EC4V 4JL Richard Davies Jarvis Highways 2002:11.5p.
The final dividend is payable 2002 Rules issued by the Financial Services Registrars David Evans Managing Director, Maintenance on 1 October 2003 to shareholders on the Mr R W Kendall Authority.
This year, as good practice, The Causeway Nabarro Managing Director, Train Operations, register on 29 August 2003.
The retained Mr O Luder Non-executive the report also addresses the Worthing Nathanson Jarvis FM & Jarvis Safety & profit for the period transferred to reserves Lord McGowan Non-executive recommendations of the Higgs Report West Sussex Lacon House Construction UK Environment is 20.5 million 2002: 14.4 million.
deceased 6 May 2003 on the role of Non-executive Directors, BN99 6DA Theobalds Road Limited Prof. B Mellitt Non-executive appointed including the recommendations from the London WC1X Bob Doyle Review of Business and Future 3 October 2002 Smith Report on the role of the audit Auditors 8RW Pat Gardiner Managing Director, Developments Mr P Moayedi committee.
Ernst & Young LLP Managing Director, Maintenance A review of the business and future Mr S Norris Non-executive Becket House Stockbrokers Jarvis Projects Division developments is presented in the Mr A J Sutton Creditor payment policy 1 Lambeth Palace Dresdner Chairmans and Chief Executives Company Secretary: G K H Mason When entering into commitments for Road Kleinwort Chuck Ives Nigel Ford Statements on pages 2 to 5 and in the the purchase of services and goods, the Members of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination London SE1 7EU Wasserstein Managing Director, Finance Director Operating and Financial reviews on pages Company gives due consideration to Committees.
20 Fenchurch Jarvis Fleet 6 to 18. quality, delivery, price and the terms of Street Management Chuck Ives During the year, Colin Skellett resigned payment.
Suppliers are made aware of London EC3P 3DB Managing Director, Share capital from the Board and was succeeded as these terms.
The Company abides by Rob Johnson Jarvis Fleet Details of changes in share capital are Chairman by Lord McGowan.
Lord these terms whenever it is satisfied that KBC Peel Hunt Ltd Group Commercial Management given in note 23 to the accounts.
McGowan was subsequently succeeded suppliers have provided the services or 62 Threadneedle Director as Chairman by Paris Moayedi on 19 May goods in accordance with agreed terms Street Rob Johnson The Company has a qualifying employee 2003, with Kevin Hyde acceding to the role and conditions.
In the event of disputes, London EC2R 8HR Robert Kendall Group Commercial share trust QUEST to facilitate the of Chief Executive on the same date.
efforts are made to resolve them quickly.
Group Finance Director allocation of shares in the Company under In accordance with the Companys Articles During the year ended 31 March 2003, Director Savings Related Share Option Schemes.
of Association, Rob Johnson and Brian the Company on average paid its creditors Robert Kendall At 31 March 2003, the QUEST held Mellitt, who have both been appointed within 42 days 2002: 46 days of receipt Group Finance 163,021 2002: 169,244 ordinary shares Directors since the last Annual General of invoice.
Director of 5p each, representing 0.11% 2002: Meeting, will offer themselves for election.
The trust Owen Luder, being over the age of 70, Employment policies has waived the dividends on these shares retires annually in accordance with best The Group is an equal opportunity except to the extent of 0.01p per share practice and will stand for re-election again employer.
As a service driven business, per dividend.
The Company has recently this year.
Kevin Hyde and Andrew Sutton the Group recognises the pivotal role its launched a Share Incentive Plan for all will retire at the forthcoming Annual employees play in delivering quality employees which will hold shares under General Meeting by rotation, in accordance performance to its many clients.
The trust will be administered with the Articles.
Both will stand for reindependently of the Company by Barclays election.
Messrs Hyde, Johnson and A high priority is placed on the involvement Bank Trust Company Limited.
At the date Sutton have service contracts that require and participation of all employees, whether of this report the trust had yet to acquire the giving of 12 months notice.
Owen through formal processes involving trade shares in the market.
Luder does not have a contract that unions and elected representatives or requires the giving of notice.
Brian Mellitt through direct communications.
Various Substantial shareholdings is required to give and receive three methods of communication, including At 11 June 2003, the Company had been months notice under the terms of his letter newsletters, company magazines, weekly notified of the following interests in 3% or of appointment.
briefing notes, a widely available intranet more of the Companys ordinary shares: site and structured briefing sessions, have made key contributions to the level and 22 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 23 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 25 Independent Auditors report to the members of Jarvis plc understanding of the business whilst Further details are provided in the separate shareholders in previous years, will permit We have audited the groups financial Report is not consistent with the financial sufficient evidence to give reasonable allowing employees to contribute and report on Corporate Social Responsibility.
Directors during the period until the Annual statements for the year ended 31 March statements, if the company has not kept assurance that the financial statements comment on matters which are likely General Meeting in 2004 to issue no more 2003 which comprise the Consolidated proper accounting records, if we have not and the part of the Directors to affect them.
Close company provisions than 5% of the current issued share capital Profit and Loss Account, Consolidated received all the information and Remuneration Report to be audited are The Company is not a close company at the date hereof, without first offering Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, explanations we require for our audit, or if free from material misstatement, whether The Company operates a Savings Related within the provisions of the Income and them pro-rata to existing shareholders.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, information specified by law or the Listing caused by fraud or other irregularity or Share Option Scheme and encourages all Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The Directors believe that the resolution, Consolidated Statement of Total Rules regarding directors remuneration error.
In forming our opinion we also employees, subject to a minimum period disapplying Section 89 in this way, is in Recognised Gains and Losses, and transactions with the group is not evaluated the overall adequacy of the of employment as determined by the Statement of Directors responsibilities the best interests of the Company.
Reconciliation of Movement in Equity disclosed.
presentation of information in the financial Board, to participate in the Scheme.
Some Company Law requires the Directors to Shareholders Funds and the related notes statements and the part of the Directors employees have already participated in this prepare for each financial period accounts Political and charitable donations 1 to 35.
These financial statements have We review whether the Corporate Remuneration Report to be audited.
Scheme and are now not only employees that give a true and fair view of the state The Group made charitable donations of been prepared on the basis of the Governance Statement reflects the but also shareholders in the Company.
At of affairs of the Company and of the Group 30,000 2002: 247,000 during the year, accounting policies set out therein.
companys compliance with the seven Opinion the AGM last year the Company approved and of the profit or loss of the Group for and made no political donations.
We have also audited the information in provisions of the Combined Code specified In our opinion: the introduction of a Shareholder Incentive that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report that for our review by the Listing Rules, and we the financial statements give a true and fair Plan.
The launch of the Plan, called the Buy the Directors are required to select suitable Auditors is described as having been audited.
We are not required view of the state of affairs of the company As You Earn Plan, took place in May 2003. accounting policies and then apply them A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young to consider whether the boards and of the group as at 31 March 2003 and Under the Plan in its current form, the consistently: to make judgements and LLP as auditors to the Company will be This report is made solely to the statements on internal control cover all of the profit of the group for the year then Company will add one share to every ten estimates that are reasonable and prudent: proposed at the forthcoming Annual companys members, as a body, in risks and controls, or form an opinion on ended: and shares purchased by an employee.
There to state whether applicable accounting General Meeting.
accordance with Section 235 of the the effectiveness of the groups corporate the financial statements and the part of the is no minimum period of employment standards have been followed subject to Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has governance procedures or its risk and Directors Remuneration Report to be required for participation in the Plan.
A any material departures disclosed and By order of the Board been undertaken so that we might state control procedures.
audited have been properly prepared in resolution will be submitted to the Annual explained in the accounts: and to prepare G K H Mason to the companys members those matters accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
General Meeting concerning changes and accounts on the going concern basis Secretary we are required to state to them in an We read other information contained in developments of the Companys long term unless it is inappropriate to presume that 11 June 2003 auditors report and for no other purpose.
the Annual Report and consider whether Ernst & Young LLP share incentive schemes.
These changes the Group will continue in business.
The To the fullest extent permitted by law, we it is consistent with the audited financial Registered Auditor are described further in the Directors Directors confirm that the accounts comply do not accept or assume responsibility to statements.
This other information London Remuneration Report.
anyone other than the company and the comprises the Directors Report, unaudited 11 June 2003 companys members as a body, for our part of the Directors Remuneration The Groups policy is to ensure the health, The Directors are responsible for ensuring audit work, for this report, or for the Report, Chairmans Statement, Operating safety and welfare of everyone engaged in that proper accounting records are kept opinions we have formed.
and Financial Review and Corporate or affected by its activities and to comply which disclose with reasonable accuracy at Governance Statement.
We consider the with current legislation.
The report on any time the financial position of the Group Respective responsibilities of directors implications for our report if we become Corporate Social Responsibility is included and to enable them to ensure that the and auditors aware of any apparent misstatements or on pages 70 to 80.
Further information on accounts comply with the Companies Act The directors are responsible for preparing material inconsistencies with the financial Health and Safety is contained within that 1985.
They are also responsible for the Annual Report, including the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not report.
safeguarding the assets of the Group and statements which are required to be extend to any other information.
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prepared in accordance with applicable The Groups policy on the recruitment of prevention and detection of fraud and United Kingdom law and accounting Basis of audit opinion disabled persons during the financial year other irregularities.
standards as set out in the Statement of We conducted our audit in accordance has continued to be as sympathetic and Directors Responsibilities in relation to with United Kingdom Auditing Standards positive as possible, having regard to the Authority to allot securities the financial statements.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
particular aptitudes and abilities of At the forthcoming Annual General An audit includes examination, on a test applicants, given the nature of the Groups Meeting to be held on 7 August 2003, Our responsibility is to audit the financial basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts operations.
an ordinary resolution will be proposed statements and the part of the Directors and disclosures in the financial statements in accordance with Section 80 of the Remuneration Report to be audited in and the part of the Directors Environmental policy Companies Act 1985 to renew the accordance with relevant legal and Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also The Board is fully committed to minimising Directors authority to allot the authorised regulatory requirements, United Kingdom includes an assessment of the significant any adverse effects that the Groups but unissued share capital of the Company.
Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules estimates and judgements made by the operations may have on the environment The authority sought will be for a period of the Financial Services Authority.
directors in the preparation of the financial and to finding alternative ways of operating normally expiring at the time of the Annual statements, and of whether the accounting where its activities may cause General Meeting in 2004.
We report to you our opinion as to whether policies are appropriate to the groups environmental damage.
Each of the the financial statements give a true and fair circumstances, consistently applied and operating businesses has developed Subject to the aforementioned resolution view and whether the financial statements adequately disclosed.
environmental policies and procedures being sanctioned by shareholders, and the part of the Directors appropriate to its business and these have authority will also be sought from Remuneration Report to be audited have We planned and performed our audit been co-ordinated at Group level in order shareholders to disapply Section 89 of the been properly prepared in accordance with so as to obtain all the information and to ensure that the Boards commitment is Companies Act 1985.
This authority which the Companies Act 1985.
We also report explanations which we considered applied consistently throughout the Group.
has been sought from and granted by to you if, in our opinion, the Directors necessary in order to provide us with 24 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 25 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:36 pm Page 27 Consolidated profit and loss account Consolidated balance sheet For the year ended 31 March 2003 At 31 March 2003 Year ended 31 March 2003 Year ended 31 March 2002 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2003 2003 2002 2002 Joint venture Joint venture Notes m m m m and and Fixed assets associate associate Intangible assets 12 127.6 132.8 Group undertakings Total Group undertakings Total Tangible assets 13 64.8 56.4 Notes m m m m m m Investments in joint venture undertakings: Turnover: Group and share of joint venture Share of gross assets 14 i 773.1 279.7 undertakings 2 1,105.5 111.7 1,217.2 904.7 44.7 949.4 Share of gross liabilities 14 i 703.9 265.7 Less: share of joint venture undertakings 14 i 69.2 14.0 turnover 111.7 111.7 44.7 44.7 Loans to joint venture undertakings 14 i 5.1 3.2 Other investments 14 iii 5.0 5.3 Group turnover 1,105.5 1,105.5904.7 904.7 Cost of sales 937.4 937.4 752.3 752.3 Total investments 79.3 22.5 Gross profit 168.1 168.1152.4 152.4 271.7 211.7 Administration expenses 96.9 96.9 98.0 98.0 Current assets Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 79.6 79.662.5 62.5 Properties held for resale and development 15 2.0 2.3 Goodwill amortisation 8.4 8.4 8.1 8.1 Stocks and work in progress 16 64.2 36.9 Debtors 17 387.9 321.2 Debtors subject to non-recourse financing agreements 20.9 25.6 Operating profit 71.2 71.2 54.4 54.4 Less: Non-recourse finance 19 20.6 25.3 Share of profits of joint venture undertakings 9.7 9.7 2.7 2.7 0.3 0.3 Share of profits of associated undertakings -- 0.3 0.3 Cash at bank and in hand 28 iii 73.9 46.6 Loss on sale of subsidiary undertakings -- 0.2 0.2 528.3 407.3 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 71.2 9.7 80.9 54.2 3.0 57.2 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 18 381.4 299.5 Net current assets 146.9 107.8 Interest receivable and similar income 6 i 1.5 14.1 15.6 3.3 3.2 6.5 Interest payable and similar charges 6 ii 13.0 20.8 33.8 12.1 5.8 17.9 Total assets less current liabilities 418.6 319.5 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 19 169.9 112.7 Net Interest 11.5 6.7 18.2 8.8 2.6 11.4 Provisions for liabilities and charges 21 11.3 8.4 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2, 7 59.7 3.0 62.7 45.4 0.4 45.8 Net assets 237.4 198.4 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8 20.4 1.2 21.6 14.5 - 14.5 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 39.3 1.8 41.1 30.9 0.4 31.3 Capital and reserves Minority interests equity 27 2.0 0.6 Called up share capital 23 7.1 7.0 Share premium account 24 139.8 137.1 Profit attributable to shareholders 39.1 30.7 Revaluation reserve 25 8.6 3.4 Dividends paid and proposed 9 18.6 16.3 Merger reserve 25 89.7 89.7 Retained profit for the year 20.5 14.4 Profit and loss account 26 15.9 38.8 Equity shareholders funds 229.3 198.4 Earnings per ordinary share 10 Minority interests equity 27 8.1 - Basic 27.7p 22.2p 237.4 198.4 Diluted 27.5p 21.9p Basic before goodwill amortisation and exceptionals 33.7p 28.2p Notes 1 to 35 form part of these financial statements The above results relate to continuing operations The financial statements were approved by the board on 11 June 2003 and were signed on its behalf by: Notes 1 to 35 form part of these financial statements P Moayedi Director K Hyde Director R W Kendall Director 26 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 27
