OPERATING REVIEW Financial performance Following an increase in charges in line with inflation of 1.2% on 1 April 2002, turnover increased by 1.4% to 573.4m 2002: 565.4m, just ahead of the 1.1% increase reported at the interim stage in the group accounts.
Revenue growth from new customers largely offset the effect of domestic metering in the full year.
The continuing emphasis throughout the business on operating efficiency was demonstrated by the 3.9% increase in operating profit to 231.0m 2002: 222.4m, of which 49% 2002: 47% accrued in the second half year.
Operating cost savings are now expected to secure outperformance of 100m in the current price determination period.
Yorkshire Water was awarded an interim price determination during 2002.
As a consequence, customer prices will rise by 3.4% and 3.5% previously 1% above inflation in 2003 04 and 2004 05 respectively.
The interim determination allows Yorkshire Water to fund additional investment of around 53m and to recover the additional cost of bad debts arising as a consequence of the loss of the ability to disconnect customers.
The additional investment will be used principally to reduce the number of incidences of sewer flooding and upgrade our sludge incinerators to meet the requirements of the Waste Incineration Directive.
Operational performance Yorkshire Water is now ranked second in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment which compares the levels of service provided by the UKs ten major water and sewerage companies.
This is a significant improvement from the companys ranking of tenth in 1996 97.
Ofwats report was published in August 2002.
The highlights included: Further reductions in the number of properties experiencing inadequate water pressure, which has been reduced to 189.
This is ahead of the commitment to reduce this to 400 properties by 2005.
Significant reductions in the number of properties affected by unplanned interruptions to supplies caused by, for example, bursts and leaks.
This was as a result of better incident handling by field teams and contractors.
Drinking water quality in Yorkshire was the best it had ever been, largely as a result of an ongoing mains improvement programme.
Security of water supplies was reported as the best ever, with leakage from the companys and customers pipes continuing to fall.
The extension of the Grid Zone into rural North Yorkshire allows more flexibility and increased security of supply to customers in these areas.
The improvements were endorsed by the Environment Agency in its December 2002 report, the third Annual Review of Water Company Water Resource Plans.
The number of properties flooded with sewage also reduced.
The companys water supply service was ranked in first place for operating cost efficiency in Ofwats report Water and Sewerage Service Unit Costs and Relative Efficiency 2001-02 published in December 2002.
1 Water quality The DWI, in its annual report on drinking water quality in England and Wales for 2001, reported that 99.91% of all samples had complied with the relevant regulations.
The quality of Yorkshires tap water is the best it has ever been.
At the same time as the DWIs report, Yorkshire Water launched a campaign designed to encourage customers to bottle their tap water and take it with them wherever they went.
The promotion saw 100,000 water bottles distributed to customers, contractors, sports clubs, schools and other community organisations.
The DWIs Chief Inspector urged other water companies to adopt similar techniques to promote their product.
Further improvements in the quality and reliability of customers supplies are expected to be delivered as a result of the companys ongoing programme of mains renewal and replacement.
By 2010, a further 4,000km of pipes will be upgraded, leading to better quality drinking water and a reduction in the number of bursts and leaks.
Improvements to customer service Significant progress has been made over the past year to improve not just the level of service afforded to customers, but also the feel of the service.
The new Integrated Customer and Operations Management ICOM system which became fully functional in April 2002 is now firmly embedded in the business and has delivered improvements in operational performance.
The volume of calls from customers is down by 25%, repeat customer calls are down by 10% and 98% of appointments offered within a two hour time band have been met.
An external review recently conducted by Trinity Horne, a firm of management consultants working within the water industry, concluded that the implementation of ICOM has delivered a class leading system which can enable Yorkshire Water to achieve step change improvements in business performance and customer experience.
In October 2002 Yorkshire Water extended its opening hours to ensure that water customers can now receive visits until 9pm from Mondays to Fridays and between 8am and 6pm on Saturdays and Sundays.
This new business as usual service is in addition to the traditional out-of-hours emergency service provided by the company.
Quarterly research shows that overall customer satisfaction levels are now consistently around 90%.
Satisfaction among business customers is equally as high, according to a survey published in September 2002 by the Energy Information Centre EIC.
The EIC, a business customer trade body that merged recently with the Utility Buyers Forum, canvassed the views of 150 water and waste water business customers across the UK, with Yorkshire Water ranked as the top performer.
Environmental performance In March 2003, Kelda was confirmed as the water industrys leading performer in the Business in The Environment BiTE Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
Yorkshire Waters score of 97% made Kelda eligible for a place in BiTEs new Premier League, an accolade shared by only 17 of the UKs largest 250 companies.
The survey measured the extent to which companies understood and managed their impacts on the environment and examined whether environmental issues were an integral part of their business strategy.
Yorkshire Water scored full marks in almost every category.
2 The report also pointed to the significant improvements made by the company over the past few years in all areas of its environmental performance.
For example in the autumn of 2002, the Environment Agency reported that local bathing waters and rivers were becoming even cleaner and acknowledged the role played by Yorkshire Water in achieving this success.
As a direct result of the companys recent investment in new sewage treatment works on Yorkshires East Coast, last year 14 bathing waters surpassed the EUs most stringent guideline quality standards.
The result is that, for the first time, Bridlington can now apply to fly its own Blue Flag alongside those of the neighbouring tourist resorts of Scarborough and Whitby.
By working in partnership with local authorities, the target for 2003 04 is to see 16 bathing waters attain guideline standards.
The agency also referred to the continuing revival of the regions inland waterways and to the contribution to it made by Yorkshire Waters massive investment in sewage treatment and the companys success at tackling pollution caused by its assets and operations.
The Environment Agency confirmed in September 2002 that the company was one of only four companies in the sector to reduce incidents of pollution year-on-year.
As a result, for example, the River Don in South Yorkshire has seen substantial improvements in water quality and, in the River Calder in West Yorkshire, fish populations are on the increase according to recent studies.
During 2002, the number of Category 1 and 2 pollution incidents involving the companys assets reduced by more than a third.
The number of Category 3 incidents also reduced significantly.
By the end of 2003 04, we aim to report an overall reduction of 50% in the number of pollution incidents reported in 2000.
Capital investment Regulated capital investment for the year was 319.5m, a slight decrease on the previous years figure of 324.7m.
It is now expected that capital cost outperformance in the current price determination period will be around 10%.
A substantial part of the work being undertaken during the current asset management programme AMP3 is either to replace or reline old cast iron mains, which can cause discolouration, or to upgrade sewer overflows deemed unsatisfactory, either because of the frequency at which they discharge or the impact they have on local watercourses.
For example, by 2005 the company will have invested more than 40m in Bradford.
This fundamental overhaul of the water and waste water infrastructure in Bradford will involve the cleaning and relining of approximately 125km of trunk main, improvements to the citys biggest water treatment works and the upgrading of 65 unsatisfactory sewer overflows.
The company is also undertaking work on behalf of the Passenger Transport Executive to enable the construction of a new Supertram system in Leeds.
In supporting this project, Yorkshire Water will make more than 500 changes to the water and sewerage system which are expected to take four years to complete.
Project Aquatrine In April 2003 Brey Utilities, a consortium in which Yorkshire Water has a 45% interest and including Earth Tech Engineering Ltd and Halliburton KBR, was confirmed by the Ministry of Defence MoD as the service provider for Project Aquatrine, Package A.
3 Project Aquatrine is one of the most significant Public Private Partnership projects in the MoD, and the largest Private Finance Initiative water project in the UK.
It involves the award of three packages A, B and C which will transfer the responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the MoDs water and waste water assets and infrastructure in the UK to private sector providers.
This will enable the MoD to focus its resources and expertise on delivering military capability.
Under the terms of the 25 year contract for Package A, Brey Utilities will provide water and waste water services to over 1,000 MoD sites in the Midlands, Wales and South West England.
The 1bn contract is expected to go live in December 2003.
Brey Utilities is the only consortium that has also been short-listed for Packages B and C covering Scotland and the rest of England.
Customer communications To reinforce the significant financial, operational and service improvements made by the company in recent years, in July 2002 Yorkshire Water unveiled a new corporate logo.
The old Yorkshire Water logo has been replaced with a landscape design which presents a more modern image of the company and better reflects the environmental stewardship role at the heart of its activities.
Customers and employees were consulted about the new design.
To coincide with the launch of the new logo, a series of new, customer led communications campaigns were also unveiled.
The success of these campaigns resulted in the companys External Communications Department being voted the regions In-House Team of the Year at the Institute of Public Relations Cream Awards in November 2002.
The team won seven out of the 14 awards presented on the night.
