Operating Review Over the last twelve months, the Group has continued to grow sales and profits against a background of major change for the retail business and against a slowdown in the market place generally.
Matalans UK clothing market share The operational effectiveness has increased 0.3% to 3.1%.
Matalan programme outlined in last years is now the UKs fifth largest clothing annual report is now well underway.
retailer by value and third largest The programme focuses on six key by volume.
areas where there is opportunity to redene processes and controls Initial steps have been taken, in the which, when completed, will form of investments in people and signicantly improve the operational systems, which will provide the basis effectiveness of the business.
for sustainable profit growth in the The six areas are:- future.
These investments are reected in the period by sales People development growth being ahead of profit growth.
Systems capability Operating cashows remain strong Supply chain and balance sheet strength has been Retail execution maintained.
The Group has minimal Brand development debt allowing growth plans to be internally funded.
Always a friendly smile at the checkouts.
Daily communication between head ofce and stores.
Longest serving employee in Matalan with 21 years service.
A greeter welcoming new and existing members.
The new team at the Livingstone store.
Celebrating the 150th store opening with the Chairman.
1 2 3 4 5 6 6 Operating Review continued During the period, a significant investment in payroll costs has been made in order to facilitate the operational effectiveness programme.
The first area of investment was in the The second area of investment has People recruitment of a new Executive Team been made within each store in order development which has given clear leadership to to drive a stepped improvement in the key operational areas of buying, customer service and retail standards.
supply chain, retail, marketing and In future periods, all service finance.
All areas have been reviewed improvements will be funded through in order to bring clarity to roles and improved productivity.
Overall, this has has been introduced which has resulted in atter structures, more identied opportunities, amongst effective decision making and has others, for improving efficiencies in been completed well ahead of stock handling processes and for John King system change.
Group Chief Executive 7 Operating Review continued The system change programme will require the Companys biggest ever investment in systems, 25 million.
The technology currently being used complicated, risky or expensive Systems within the business is over ten years amendment: capability old and is now becoming a constraint All organisational change has on the efficiency of the Companys been completed well ahead of operations.
All core systems within system change: and finance, supply chain and marketing Process improvement programmes will be replaced, with planned are in place to ensure that each completion targeted for Autumn 2003. area is well run before new systems A programme of this scale is not are introduced.
without risk, and the Company has The programme so far has progressed taken a number of steps in order to Nick Beighton Change Management Director well and the core finance systems of minimise potential disruption to the purchase ordering, purchase ledger business as follows:- and general ledger have already To ensure high quality technical been converted.
Within the next expertise, the management of the financial period, the critical supply Companys systems has been chain systems will be converted with outsourced: an overall objective of conversion Proven software has been selected without disruption.
which is used by many other The benets from the investment in retailers worldwide: new systems are planned to The software is being taken in its commence in the financial period off the shelf state, without ended February 2005.
Over the last twelve months, in denim, which has improved its Supply chain and well ahead of system change, availability from 64%, twelve months improvements in the supply chain ago, to 86% today.
have been made through focusing on It is still twelve months before the people and processes.
benets from the new systems Tighter control of stock, for example, platform can be extracted.
In the is reected in the lower level of intervening time more of the same terminal stocks than a year ago.
type of initiatives will be targeted to drive product availability instore.
Perhaps the best illustration of the Roger Burnley Supply Chain Director improvement in instore availability is 8 4 The end to end supply chain process: 1.
Sourcing, buying, merchandising, stock allocation working together.
1 2 3 9 Operating Review continued A rened and attened retail structure has been put in place allowing greater management focus on the key areas of customer service, retail standards and new stores.
Customer service has been given a New store investments continue to Retail execution renewed focus.
To improve the perform well, delivering good returns shopping environment, a new retail and generating sales levels amongst standards programme concentrating the best in the chain.
Clear directional on shop oor disciplines has been signage and price communication launched.
An independent, nationwide, has made stores easier to mystery shopper survey has also been merchandise for staff and easier to introduced in order to actively measure shop for members.
Over the next service standards in every store.
It is year, trials will be held to determine early days on these new initiatives, but the roll-out of the best elements of the Euan Sutherland Retail and Marketing Director initial results have been encouraging.
new stores to the rest of the chain.
10 Clear directional signage and price communication making stores easier to merchandise for staff and easier to shop for members.
11 The Matalan value proposition remains unchanged prices at least 50% cheaper than the high street, with products being of equivalent or better quality.
In house developed brands: Acquired brands: u. s. athletic in June 2000 Falmer in May 1999 Taylor & Wright in Lee Cooper in July 2001 January 2002 Rogers Rogers, jeffery Rogers in February 2002 Wolsey in April 2002 Easy in May 2002 12 Operating Review continued The value position, when combined by which value is communicated to Brand with a compelling promotional the member.
development offering, delivers a real point of Direct mail, using a highly difference for members.
developed database, remains the Over the next twelve months, a clearer most effective marketing tool in branding and pricing architecture will attracting members into the stores.
be introduced which will demonstrate Trials in indirect activity, such as TV the strength of this value position and national press, have given a across all product ranges.
Products greater understanding of the will be dened within a good, better effectiveness of other media in and best pricing hierarchy with each attracting members.
However, over clearly represented by one brand.
the next year, marketing activity will This will represent a major simplication be rebalanced towards direct mail.
Although a continued area of management leading to improvements Buying and differentiation and strength, buying in buying processes whilst still sourcing and sourcing represents a further retaining entrepreneurial air.
opportunity for the operational In line with the good, better, best effectiveness programme.
brand strategy, the supplier base is Investments have been made in being continually improved to achieve improving the quality of people the highest quality that will match the in design, buying and sourcing, competitive price proposition.
with a more disciplined critical path In summary, the operational effectiveness programme outlined in last years annual report is now well underway.
The focus has now moved from the planning and preparation stages and is now centred on high quality delivery and execution.
