McCarthy & Stone plc Operational Review The increase in volumes was driven by particularly strong Our effective business model which performances in the South West, Scotland, North West and concentrates on UK retirement housing South East, although all Regions performed well apart from continues to produce these excellent Western which was faced with a stock shortage at the year end.
The newer North East and North London Regions results.
We maintain strong central produced very good volume performance and our Assisted controls but our Regions are responsible Living Division contributed its share.
for the key operational processes.
We note the increasing importance of our website www.
co. uk as a source of enquiries Retirement Housing through to reservations and completions.
We have enhanced Sales the website once again which provides details of all our sites as well as emphasising our land acquisition requirements and We sold 1,948 units 1,671, an increase of 17%.
particularly strong first-half of the year we increased sales to 831 units 619 and the second-half we sold 1,117 1,052.
We have continued to focus on our Customer Care During the year we sold from a total of 130 sites 118 and programme and have recently improved the basis on which had an average of 71 active selling sites 70.
We achieved we work with the House Managers on our housing an average selling price of 130,900 112,000, an increase developments across the Group.
We monitor the effectiveness of our national marketing spend Despite the increase in selling price our product remains carefully and have recently renewed our advertising campaign affordable, with the majority of our purchasers trading down.
to provide a fresher and clearer message to our Customers.
The use and average cost of incentives decreased slightly, We have been particularly pleased with our public relations except for the part exchange facilitation service which was activity and have secured improved coverage even on the more widely used.
We continue not to take in any part outstanding achievements in the previous year.
Land and Stock Admirals Court, Exmouth The Group exchanged contracts on 66 sites 60 but contracts lapsed on 5 sites showing a net addition of 61 sites 54.
This represented a net addition of 2,750 units 2,307.
The average cost of land units acquired was 31,500 compared to 25,100 the preceding year.
Clearly, increases in selling prices have driven rising land costs but, at the point of land acquisition, land cost as a proportion of revenue, without taking into account any possible further increases in selling prices, remains at a similar proportion to our historic average.
During the year only 9 sites 4 were acquired unconditionally.
Year end Stock Units 2003 2002 Change Finished 1,693 1,519 Under construction 2,092 1,976 3,785 3,495 8% Land 5,628 5,015 Total 9,413 8,510 11% Overall, the number of units in stock increased by 11% representing a little under five years sales at last years sales rate.
I am delighted I moved to Padfield Court and Im telling all my friends to do the same thing.
I dont miss my house as much as I thought I would and I certainly dont miss the worry and expense of having to maintain it.
June Shepherd and friend Beryl Ward, residents of Padfield Court, Wembley Park.
McCarthy & Stone plc Page 7 Operational Review consents that make the most economic and effective use of our sites.
Our record in resolving planning constraints is a key factor in our ability to acquire good sites for sheltered housing.
We have commented in the past on the potential adverse impact of the Governments affordable housing policy, primarily because local authorities have not applied it in a fair or consistent manner.
We apply our own strong policies on affordable housing so as to ensure that any affordable contribution either on or off-site, is reflected in the price that we pay for the land.
Where the provision is on-site we seek to ensure it is compatible with our sheltered housing schemes.
We welcome the Governments proposed The Groups future volume growth is crucially dependent revision of PPG3 as it encourages greater attention by local upon our ability to secure land on which we can obtain authorities to the assessment of housing needs.
Our land teams have continued to play McCarthy & Stone has devoted much time and effort to their part.
One of the key issues at land acquisition stage has working alongside the Government and other interested become an assessment of the affordable housing implications parties in recognition of the growing housing needs of older for each site.
Last year we agreed to 2.1 million of off-site people.
We are encouraged by the Governments increasing contributions as well as 44 units by way of on-site desire to ensure that older people are given the opportunity contribution.
These levels of contribution are significantly to live in decent homes, which best meet their needs in higher than those for the preceding year but were largely retirement.
There is still much to be done as very few local taken into account at land acquisition.
authorities have properly assessed the housing needs and aspirations of their older population.
Planning On 4 November 2003 we published the results of a major The Group achieved 56 planning consents 52 in the year, piece of independent research which demonstrates the high equating to 2,561 units 2,575, a good achievement levels of satisfaction and quality of life offered by our form of considering the continuing inefficiencies of the planning development.
It also examines the wider planning, social and system.
We might have achieved more consents as in the economic benefits of sheltered housing and dispels numerous year we had 12 applications refused by Planning Committees misconceptions of this form of special needs housing.
Given contrary to Officer support and recommendation, five of the findings of the research and the Governments increasing which remain the subject of current appeals.
In the year we emphasis on the need to ensure genuine housing choice for were successful at seven out of ten appeals.
older people, we hope that we can achieve a stronger We have seen no improvement in the 54 week average time presumption in favour of our developments.
that it has taken us to achieve a consent.
Hence, we have We hope to operate within a more favourable planning voiced our support for the Governments review of the environment in the future.
We remain confident that with planning system and housing supply, but believe that it is not our own expertise and the Governments commitment to the system itself that requires radical change, but rather improve the system, we will be able to improve on our past greater discipline within local authorities so as to ensure a planning successes.
more reasonable and consistent application of the system.
We continue to have a high reputation for securing planning Page 8 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc Sutton Court, Bingley Construction In 2001 02 following the events of 11 September 2001, the Group held back some construction starts.
As the market strengthened through 2002 we geared up construction activity once again.
In 2002 03 first occupations occurred on 45 sites 32, an increase of 40% representing 2,122 units.
Of this increase some 14 first occupations arose in July and August 2003, a period which imposes additional pressures on the sales and marketing teams as they approach the year end.
Build starts occurred on 47 sites during the year, which was below target levels principally because of delays in achieving planning permissions.
We monitor the constituents of our build costs very carefully.
Once again our construction teams demonstrated their control of build costs over the period with very few instances of build cost overruns.
We have been well-served by our sub-contractors but we do note the pressure on rates and the availability of labour.
Our material costs moved very little over the year but we have suffered some delays from key material suppliers which will have a knock-on effect in terms of stock availability in 2003 2004.
Overall, the basic build cost has increased by approximately 4% compared to the previous year.
However, we have been faced with more significant increases in non-standard, extra-over costs.
These costs are in part land related but within the sector and a further NOP Omnibus survey, a large element is related to Government Regulations.
conducted in June 2003, confirmed that standing.
From this The new Part E of the Building Regulations, in relation to position of strength, additional investment has been directed sound transmission within a building, is creating additional towards further broadening brand awareness.
We have costs and will require us to change certain aspects of our promoted new initiatives for our communications strategy at long-established building design.
In addition, we are having both a corporate and sales outlet level.
to bear higher levels of Landfill Tax and Aggregates Tax.
During 2003, we appointed a leading brand consultancy to Government legislation and regulation continues to be a research the value of the McCarthy & Stone brand.
It was significant factor in increasing build costs.
valued in excess of 60m and we now have a benchmark from which to add additional value as the Group moves forward.
The McCarthy & Stone Brand We can report that sales completions obtained as a direct result Work has continued over the last year to further strengthen of our internet presence have increased by over 50% during the the McCarthy & Stone brand.
With more selling sites and year.
Direct enquiries showed an encouraging 140% rise over sites under construction we have an ever increasing McCarthy the same period.
This facility is allowing us even greater access & Stone presence and signature across the country.
We pride to family members and other influencers of our target audience, ourselves on the clarity and visibility of our site presentation a sector we are keen to stimulate further.
and operate clear and uniform policies for promoting the McCarthy & Stone name.
Last year we reported that the brand had been confirmed by NOP as the most recognised I think independence is important to old people and sheltered accommodation is good in this way as it doesnt take away independence.
They still have their own front door they can close.
But they are also secure and feel safe.
They know that someone wont break in at night and so can sleep well.
McCarthy & Stone plc Page 9 McCarthy & Stone plc Operational Review Strategy and Achievements It is now over ten years since I became Chief Executive.
We have recorded our 10th year of successive profit improvement.
In measuring total shareholder return over the last five years, we have delivered a compound average return of 36.5%.
We have focused on our simple, but effective, business model and have not been tempted to move away from that.
We have avoided acquisitions, closed and sold non-core activities, encouraged regional performance within a framework of strong Group controls and policies, and focused on our key skills.
We have encouraged and strengthened our key staffing and management resources and built our regional structure and coverage to secure greater volumes and penetration of local markets.
Over the years, in addition to our long established South East, South West, North West and Scottish Regions, we have established the Midlands Region which is now trading very successfully from its new offices in Coventry.
It is now looking to establish a satellite office in Peterborough.
The newer North East Region has expanded its base in York and the Western Region will shortly move into its own custom-built offices near Bristol.
The North London Region has just moved into its new premises at Potters Bar and our Assisted Living Division is currently expanding its premises at Byfleet.
We are investing in the future.
Once again the Company has proved successful in major industry awards schemes.
McCarthy & Stone was voted the Best National Builder for the first time in the Daily Express British Housebuilder Awards.
This is our fifth consecutive Keith Lovelock success in the British Housebuilder Awards and, being voted Chairman & Chief Executive for by Customers, is a highly satisfying measure of our standing within the housebuilding fraternity.
The Company Perrin Court, Ashford also won five Green Leaf awards sponsored by the HBF Daily Mail and reached the finals of the Building magazine awards in the Volume Housebuilder category and the Best Customer Satisfaction Strategy category in the Quality Awards, run by sister title Building Homes.
In October 2003, McCarthy & Stone joined forces at a national level with the Crimestoppers Trust - the charity formed specifically to help solve crime.
Our focus has always been directed towards providing an environment that is both safe and secure for our Customers and this association has further underlined our commitment to achieving this objective.
