4 Group strategy Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Delivering group strategy In 2006, we added virtual rearms training technology to our defence systems division.
This expanded the scale of our training operations internationally and repositioned us as the leading supplier of integrated livere and virtual weapons training worldwide, a mix determined by the armed forces as the most effective form of combat training in this area.
Our aerospace equipment divisions uid controls Terry Twigger businesses are using their long experience in Chief Executive electro-mechanical extreme environment engineering to develop advanced motor control Executing our strategy and smart actuation for aircraft with more Meggitts goal is to continue to deliver excellent electric content.
Meggitts safety systems returns to our shareholders by providing smart business is responding to the growing market engineering for extreme environments.
for overheat detection across a wide temperature Our strategic objectives are to carefully target range with new sensors.
Our expanded braking investments, maximise the ef ciency of our systems operations continue to develop the longorganisation and get the right people, in the right life, lightweight friction materials that lie at the place, with the right tools to provide high-value economic heart of this business.
and strong, stable aftermarket businesses We execute this through three focused divisions Meggitt is an established investor in products covering aerospace equipment, sensing and that work hard in extreme environments defence systems.
on virtually every military and civil aircraft ying today.
Investing in technology Meggitt invests signi cantly in its highly There are around 18,000 large civil planes and engineered, specialist products to sustain positions tens of thousands of regional, business, light on current programmes and win positions on jet and general aviation aircraft in service.
They new onesaround 70 million in 2007.
We are require support throughout their service lives continually improving core technologies: widening up to 35 years for many aircraft typesin the form their uses: and investing in brand-new products of spares, repairs, maintenance and overhaul that meet our customers requirements for that come with Meggitts high tech and precisiongreater ef ciency, reliability and performance mechanical products.
The last 30 years has seen within their operating and regulatory environments.
over 5% per annum compound growth in air travel.
More air miles own means more wear Meggitts sensing systems division has provided and tear on components and systems and an aero-engine sensors and ignition package therefore more opportunities for us to sell parts that simpli es procurement for customers.
Its advanced electronic processing expertise has enabled it to provide the only on-engine We will continue to invest in products needing monitoring system that can deliver the detailed aftermarket support for new generations of images of aero-engine condition needed to aircraft, providing consistent revenues over manage maintenance ef ciently.
The division the long term and maintaining this important continues to invest in breakthrough technologies stabilising force within the groups market mix.
such as turbine tip clearance measurement, Acquisitions are an important complement which will increase the operational and to Meggitts organic growth.
They can expand environmental performance of industrial gas our presence in existing markets and enhance turbines as well as aero-engines.
In January 2008, customer service through critical mass: add it acquired a leading piezo-electric ceramics technology to build on core capabilities: and business to advance Meggitts position in sensing reinforce the success of existing business models materials for demanding environments.
like the aerospace aftermarket in which we have long experience.
Group strategy 5 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Group strategy Deliver upper quartile returns through focused leadership positions in aerospace, defence and specialist markets Group strategic objectives Invest in high Leverage group Pursue operational Satisfy our Maintain a technology and capabilities excellence customers culture of strong aftermarket performance Shared services, Ef ciency Value for money businesses common standards Leadership and Delivery Supplier of choice Organic growth skills development Best practice, worldTargeted acquisitions class compliance Succession planning Functional leadership Financial rigour Business implementation Aerospace equipment Sensing systems Defence systems Win positions on new platforms Sustain lead in condition-monitoring Become the preferred supplier with extreme environment for high value rotating machinery worldwide for integrated live electro-mechanical products and virtual weapons training Build sales of ignition and sensing Continue to excel in providing packages direct to engine-makers Sustain leading positions in pro table aftermarket services precision-mechanical systems Continue to excel in high performance, for combat vehicles extreme environment sensors smart engineering for extreme environments 6 Group strategy Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Delivering group strategy continued The acquisition of K & F last year met all these Meggitts operating units are increasingly criteria.
We are merging its braking systems working together to increase organic growth and business with an established Meggitt wheels and generate higher-value offerings by combining brakes operation.
This has strengthened our complementary capabilities.
capabilities in the core technologies essential for In aerospace equipment, streamlining 14 our chosen business jet, regional aviation and businesses into three units focusing on uid military marketssuch as electrical braking, controls, polymer solutions and thermal advanced friction materials and brake control management, has enabled our aerospace systemsand enable us to improve the ef ciency equipment division to pursue wider sub-system of the combined business cost-base.
customers have greater access to aftermarket support through improved global coverage for the Dealing with government departments and spares and replacement parts they need to keep original equipment manufacturers, our key their aircraft ying.
customer relationship managers are enabling us to promote Meggitt capabilities from a wide K & F also brought the US Department of perspective.
They ensure our activitiesfrom Defenses leading supplier of fuel bladder tanks, technology development to operational excellence further enhancing our portfolio of military initiativesare relevant to the requirements of products.
Leveraging group capabilities Initiatives like these meant that Meggitts Were building an increasingly integrated group.
businesses achieved another year of strong organic Operating units work together, facilitated by growth with a rise of 11% in revenues and a 13% group resources in strategy and marketing, increase in underlying pro t. information services, organisation development and operational excellence.
All this is underpinned Pursuing operational excellence by strong, centralised standards on export Over the past year, operational excellence teams compliance, business ethics and health, safety have been working in the operating units, adding and environment.
structure and formal support to what was already being achieved in waste elimination and improved We are reducing cost and increasing ef ciency customer service.
These teams are helping to as we set group standards for information spread best practice across the group and ensure technology systems and computer hardware.
activity is aligned with Meggitts goals.
Over time, this will include all Meggitt businesses migrating to one enterprise resource planning We invested 41.0 million in property, plant system.
and equipment, a substantial proportion of which focused on adding capacity and combining Work on Meggitts supply chain effectiveness capabilities to improve ef ciency and continues to grow.
Opportunities to work and buy competitiveness.
as a group were increased when Meggitt bought the design and manufacturing businesses of Meggitt Defence Systems co-located its Dunlop Aerospace in 2004 and grew by one third precision-mechanical businesses in California at a stroke.
The K & F acquisition expanded onto a single site to combine core capabilities Meggitt by one third again, offering even more and pursue new programmes.
opportunities to exploit the groups materials In Atlanta, Georgia, we started to build the buying power.
We launched the international factory that will enable us to co-locate our purchasing of ce in Asia in 2005, saving around live and virtual rearms businesses and 1.5 million to date.
In 2006, an indirect sourcing advance Meggitts integrated defence training initiative saved us a further 2.1 million per systems vision.
In 2007, a group supply chain team completed a substantial assessment of direct We doubled the capacity of our compact heat spending by product category throughout the exchanger business, enabling it to respond to businesses to help managers progress Meggitts demand from the energy industry for highlylong-term sourcing strategy.
The bene t of the advanced products that optimise power plant activity is expected to exceed 2 million in 2008 and rig space without sacri cing performance.
Group strategy 7 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Again, we doubled the capacity of our Chinese Positioned for success manufacturing facility, enabling Meggitt to Meggitt is well-positioned to execute its strategy.
compete by utilising low-cost elements in Strong intellectual property and the wide range product packages.
of Meggitt products provides the stable revenue We combined two UK polymers factories onto stream needed to invest in new programmes.
Our technologies service the civil aerospace, Meggitt Sensing Systems operation in military and energy markets, offsetting Switzerland completed its expansion to meet exposure to any given cycle and ensuring demand from the aerospace and energy markets we are not dependent on sales of original for its leading condition-monitoring products.
equipment to single customers or programmes.
Our United States brake carbon facility expanded to ramp up production of NuCarb, Our revenues are evenly balanced between Meggitts next generation, longer-life friction North America, and Europe and Asia.
Our manufacturing capability is global and In 2008, we will expand the manufacturing includes low-cost facilities in China and capacity in Mexico acquired with K & F. Mexico.
Satisfying our customers Investment in our group infrastructure ensures We take care to maintain the strong customer our three divisions can share best practice relationships we have and develop those needed and resources.
to become suppliers and partners of choice on In 2007, our divisions continued to put group new programmes.
We actively monitor our strategy into practice with tangible results.
customers evaluation of what we do for them through our operating units, key customer Aerospace equipment excelled in current relationship managers and customer surveys.
aftermarkets and secured future business Our performance on delivery adherence, product by winning positions on a wide range of new quality and customer support has led to multiple aircraft and ground vehicle programmes.
awards including Gold supplier status in With K & F, it strengthened its wheels and condition-monitoring from Airbus, Performance brakes businesses and acquired additional Excellence from Boeing and Supplier of the Year ice protection and fuel system technologies.
awards in braking systems from Gulfstream, Sensing systems continued to respond to market Embraer and AVIC1 Commercial Aircraft Co. requirements for the condition-monitoring Maintaining a strong performance culture technology that reduces gas turbine operating Meggitt has a well-deserved reputation for costs, optimises maintenance regimes and outstanding performance and we regard the drive reduces pollution: and for high performance exhibited by our employees as a quality that must extreme environment sensors in a range of be preserved and enhanced as we grow.
the entrepreneurial air on which individual Defence systems took signi cant steps toward operating company success is founded to remain achieving its vision of becoming the preferred as much a feature of the groups culture as the supplier around the world for integrated training disciplined financial management and systems and precision-mechanical equipment compliance and ethical standards with which for aircraft and land vehicles.
Meggitt is executing a clear strategy and is We are equipping our people with the operating in favourable markets.
This means we management skills needed to sustain the can look forward to making further progress in increasingly large and complex programmes we 2008 and beyond.
are winning after successful commercialisation of our technologies and engineering innovation.
In addition to succession planning, assessment and competitive reward and incentive schemes, we have set up our own management development programme with Oxford University.
