16 Business review Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Aerospace equipment An electro-mechanical engineering business specialising in smart engineering for extreme environments.
Its products are on virtually every aircraft in service, ensuring stable aftermarket revenues over the long term.
Markets Civil aerospace: large, regional and business jets and general aviation Military: aircraft, ground vehicles, ships Energy Capabilities Wheels, brakes and anti-skid systems Thermal management Fluid control Safety systems Polymer solutions Growth strategy Invest in component design and technology to meet next generation platform requirements and create enduring value Adapt new aftermarket business models to ensure stable, long-term revenues Develop pro table integrated solutions and subsystems that add value to our customers Acquire complementary businesses that align with strategic intent Stabilise product cost base through astute supply chain management Consolidate operations further to deliver ef ciencies Further integrate engineering resources to increase depth and breadth of capabilities Business review 17 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Thats the time it takes for Meggitt brakes to stop the Gulfstream 550 luxury jet safely on a runway from a starting speed of 217 nautical miles per houreven when loaded to the maximum at around 50 tonnes.
25 seconds 18 Business review Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Aerospace equipment Financial highlights Divisional overview at constant exchange rates 65% of our revenues come from the aftermarket T otal revenues of 528.1 million, and we continue to win orders for the original an increase of 56% equipment that fuels this pro table income Underlying operating pro t of stream.
158.2 million, an 82% increase Following the K & F acquisition, our installed Or ganic revenue and underlying base grew.
Today, Meggitt wheels and brakes operating pro t increased by 14% are present on over 30,000 aircraft across 150 and 19% respectively aircraft types, performing more than 15 million Or ders up 52% on 2006 take-offs and landings per year.
We also 8% excluding acquisitions supplied new equipment for over 800 production New clarity and new critical mass aircraft in 2007.
These included the high In 2007, Meggitts aerospace equipment division utilisation jets and higher cycle business jets consolidated its approach to creating value by that drive continued aftermarket growth.
managing and marketing groups of companies Major orders included several multi-year with complementary product lines through military programmes such as B-1B Lancer focused business units.
Groups such as Meggitt spares valued at 22 million, Korean Aerospace Fluid Controls, Meggitt Thermal Systems and Industries T-50 trainer totalling 6.5 million Meggitt Polymer Solutions continue to service of original equipment and Euro ghter orders their markets with critical components but of over 9 million.
These complemented More heat, with less power are equipped to provide packages of product Meggitt Thermal Systems has spent our strong performance on civil OE and higher-value sub-systems to simplify 40 years successfully addressing the programmes where we captured the majority complex task of protecting the engine procurement for customers.
of major contract awards for the most advanced air inlets of xed and rotary wing aircraft from inight icing hazards The pro le of Meggitts wheels and brakes next generation business jet aircraft, with electro-thermal systems.
business saw the most dramatic change as strengthening our position in the light and Today, this heritage equips Meggitts it expanded threefold following the acquisition mid-size market segments.
thermal systems group to respond to of K & Fs braking systems business in June.
the aircraft constructors increasing This follows three consecutive years of multiple On 4 January 2008, a single wheels and brakes deployment of more electric aircraft awards for major new business jets re ecting technology.
It is working with key business unit was launched to customers under the successful execution of our strategy to be customers on electrical solutions to the Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems name.
heat the leading edges and slats of the leader in this growing segment.
We won wings and nacelle lipskins in place of The pro le of Meggitts wheels and supplier of the year awards from Gulfstream bleed air, which compromises engine and Embraer for our contributions to their brakes business saw dramatic power and the ef ciency of aircraft performance overall.
Winning the wheels, brakes change as it expanded threefold and brake control system contract from This initiative re ects the aerospace The opportunity to support Meggitt product equipment divisions strategy of BAE Systems for the Taranis technology installed on airline eets grew substantially maintaining market leadership by demonstrator programme reinforced our leading developing technology that consumes with the acquisition and the division will position in systems for unmanned aircraft.
continue to focus on the operations excellence Our engineering organisation made substantial needed to satisfy customers whose pro ts progress supporting eight major new wheel and depend on keeping aircraft ying to schedule.
We made initial deliveries Like our sister sensing systems division, we of hardware for the ARJ-21 Chinese regional jet, continue to make headway in energy markets.
Phenom 100 and 300 and the Cessna CJ4, Solutions from our thermal management and celebrating other key milestones including uid controls businesses are especially in tune the roll-out of the ARJ-21, the roll-out and with extreme environment industries need for start of ight testing of the Phenom 100 and the innovative product that reduces emissions and certi cation of the Falcon 7X.
This is Dassaults improves fuel economy and running costs.
newest long-range, large category business jet and features our latest wheels, brakes, digital brake-by-wire brake control and brake temperature monitoring systems.
Other aerospace equipment businesses had an excellent year in revenue and operating pro t achievement.
This was underpinned by strong Business review 19 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 order intake which, excluding our wheels and a record order book including orders for brakes business, was up 29% in 2007 19% replacement exible bladder fuel tanks for the excluding Engineered Fabrics Corporation KC-135 inight refuelling tankers.
Multi-year acquired with K & F. contracts for exible bladder fuel tanks received in 2007 were valued at over 25 million, in Three consecutive years of multiple addition to the contract awarded by Sikorsky awards for major new business jets valued at over 70 million between 2007 and 2012 to support the upgrade of the US Army UH-60M Safety Systems won a contract to develop a and US Navy MH-60R S helicopter force.
We complete re protection system for a next received further orders totalling 45 million to generation business jet, including engine re support strategic military aircraft such as the detection, smoke detection and extinguishing, 60.
1 CH-53K heavy-lift helicopter, the V-22 tilt rotor valued at over 15 million of OE revenues.
They % of group revenue and the F15 and F16 ghter jets between 2009 also won a re detection contract for a new class and 2013. of US Navy destroyer, the DDG-1000.
Cessna selected the thermal systems group to provide Revenues from our energy and industrial a vapour cycle system for the CJ4 business jet customers increased by 37% on the back of and completed a development programme for continued high oil and gas prices.
Heatric, our high-pressure ducting in the F-35 Joint Strike compact heat exchanger business serving the Fighter.
This is expected to lead to production 52 8.
1 oil and gas exploration industry, received record orders of over 20 million through the life Revenue millions orders in 2007 validating our decision to expand of the programme.
Major orders included a 7 million contract to supply compact Engineered Fabrics Corporation, K & Fs exible heat exchangers for a sour gas processing plant bladder fuel tanks and ice protection business, in the Middle East.
We are adding 60,000 sq ft to enable the business to meet 15 8.
2 Underlying operating pro t millions Tank Williams Executive Vice President & General Manager, Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems USA From design to distribution, operations excellence is about everything and everyone connecting.
In the Air Force, where I learned the hydraulics trade, I would memorise an airplanes blueprint en route to a job, close my eyes and feel as if I could almost touch every component under the airplanes skin.
Detail is important but never more important than inspiring people to make the best better.
My challenge is to motivate the team working to make Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems an operational success.
Were combining the best from the besttwo braking systems businesses into one, with operations that ow like nobody elses.
We compete globally, so we have to keep looking outwards and never stop asking ourselves: Is this the best we can do?
Thats what effective continuous improvement is all about and why we are going to succeed.
