20 Business review Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Business review 21 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Sensing systems One of the worlds leading providers of high performance sensing and condition-monitoring solutions for high-value rotating machinery and other high value assets.
Markets Civil aerospace: large, regional and business aircraft and space propulsion systems Military: aircraft, marine Energy Medical, automotive, test and measurement Capabilities High performance sensing in extreme environments Aero-engine and industrial gas turbine condition-monitoring systems Avionics Growth strategy Continue to invest in high performance sensing technologies and develop our centres of excellence Combine them with advanced processing electronics, delivering condition-monitoring systems that reduce gas turbine operating costs, optimise maintenance regimes and reduce pollution Apply our products and expertise to adjacent aerospace applications and next-generation integrated vehicle health management solutions Develop our energy segment business through continued innovation and expanded geographical presence Extend our complete integrated product and service offering Invest in strong programme management, effective systems engineering, smooth new product introduction processes and continuous improvement initiatives Meggitts mission-critical dynamic pressure sensor continues to function after feeling the first ame of Ariane 5s cryogenic engine gas generator at 1250Cfrom a standing start of a very cool -220C after the engine has been purged with liquid nitrogen and helium.
The sensors reaction to the pressure burst from ignited hydrogen and oxygen is an important launch -220 C safety check.
to 1 250 C 22 Business review Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Sensing systems Financial highlights critical machinery combine.
In land-based at constant exchange rates condition-monitoring for the energy market, T otal revenues of 235.9 million, Meggitt has forged strong relationships with an increase of 11% key customers like Siemens and is targeting Underlying operating pro t of operators of smaller turbines with smaller, 41.5 million, a 10% increase scaleable and modular derivatives of the Or ders up 7% on 2006 systems that are currently equipping power generations megamachines.
One streamlined organisation We formed Meggitt Sensing Systems in January Advancing our business means 2007 by combining our Aerospace Systems and advances in science Meggitt Electronics divisions into one high Our condition-monitoring capability arises from performance sensor group with a portfolio of combining sophisticated electronics processing products to address measuring and monitoring with the building blocks of our business: sensors in temperature, vibration and chemical extremes.
that perform reliably in harsh environments.
We can, collectively, measure nearly every Advancing our business means advances in physical parameter.
science and we pursue a range of development Some of our businesses excel in miniaturisation: routes to make sure that our products address some, extreme environment endurance: others, customers technical and commercial challenges.
Now, drawing on centres Internal R&D, acquisitions, partnerships and of excellence in the United States and Europe, our licences all play their part as we deploy the right Hotter engines, greener skies For an engine to emit fewer new organisation is enabling us to play a number technologies and smart materials to create pollutants and use less fuel, its of cards in various technology combinations.
original solutions to measuring, monitoring, got to burn better.
The cleaner Clarifying sales channels and making more of diagnosis and prognosis.
the fuel burns, the hotter it gets.
To optimise performance in such the talent and resources that reside in our Divisional overview conditions, you need data from multiple sensing businesses is already bearing sensors of astonishing temperature We performed strongly last year with continued fruit.
Turbine engines, for example, need a wider toleranceup to 1000C for some demand for our state-of-the-art conditionparts of a gas turbine.
range of sensors than ever to hone performance monitoring systems from aerospace and and conform to environmental regulation and We sense where few others can, energy customers.
pushing material science to the limit Rolls-Royce has selected us to provide all in-house and through partnerships the critical system components needed for We made our first commercial sales of engine and acquisitions.
Acquiring a business jet engine in a single package.
The units have been Ferroperm, the piezo-electric pioneer, gives us a high temperature, high certi ed on engine variants for the Airbus A380 Strengthening the programme sensitivity, high volume capability and Boeing 787 and entered service with the and a place on important European management, systems engineering A380.
Vibro-Meters vibration monitoring unit was research programmes.
Partnering and processes to maintain excellent Piezocrystalone in commercialising certi ed by Boeing for the 737 aircraft and will be the monocrystalline material whose customer service cut into production units from the middle of 2008. signal quality and measurement Orders for over 850 Boeing 737 aircraft placed accuracy is impervious to high heat One of sensing systems strongest cards is gives our condition-monitoring in 2007 will drive substantial revenue, with its expertise in monitoring the condition of portfolio an advantage that may be opportunities for retro t programmes on the aeroengines, helping operators cut pollution, unmatched for sometime.
Vibro-Meters running costs and fuel consumption.
To satisfy advanced vibration monitoring unit for the 777 current demand, we have signi cantly increased aircraft is scheduled to cut into production from our manufacturing capacity in Switzerland and April 2008.
The outlook for original equipment are strengthening the programme management, OE revenues of condition and vibration monitoring systems engineering and processes needed to equipment is excellent with Boeing and Airbus maintain excellent customer service on reporting order books of over 3,400 aircraft each increasingly complex contracts.
At the same time, in December.
As aircraft and engine manufacturers we are investing signi cantly in sustaining our migrate from vibration monitoring units one technology lead and exploring how we can unit per aircraft with limited functionality to measure and monitor more of an aircrafts high condition-monitoring units one unit per engine value structures.
with richer functionality OE revenue per aircraft Meggitt Sensing Systems is at home wherever will multiply over the coming years.
harsh environments and the need to monitor Business review 23 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 During the year, sensing systems was appointed sensing system to monitor turbine blades, lead integrator for Rolls-Royce on the engine successfully tested its turbine tip clearance sensor and ignition package for the BR 700 solution on a General Electric electricity series engine for a next generation business jet.
generation turbine, resulting in signi cant This was a milestone in the divisions strategy to incremental fuel ef ciencies and carbon provide the competitively-priced mix of products, emission reductions.
We expect such logistics and procurement expertise customers advanced technologies to contribute to want.
With estimated sales of over 1,000 engines, future growth in the division.
this will deliver more than 20 million in OE as Tough operational economics well as future spares revenues.
9 Increasingly tough operational economics and are driving demand for smart environmental constraints are driving demand engineering solutions from % of group revenue for smart engineering solutions from our energy energy customers sector customers.
Industrial revenues performed A strong financial performance in 2007 was well as we delivered to Siemens the 2,000th matched by high levels of recognition by our VM600 condition-monitoring unit.
Awards included Performance optimises the performance of critical parts in Excellence from Boeing, another Gold award large-scale steam and gas turbine operations, 2 35.9 from Airbus for customer support in our seventh will monitor the worlds largest gas turbine.
year as top ten suppliers and Supplier of the Revenue millions We expect continued growth from this segment Year for the ARJ-21 Chinese jet.
Radatec, the high tech start-up acquired in 2006 offering a revolutionary microwave-based 41.
5 Underlying operating pro t millions Estelle Leyrolles Systems Engineer & Project Leader, Meggitt Sensing Systems I was brought up in Toulouse, so aerospace is in my blood.
Still, after my Masters in Physics, I started in automotive electronics engineering before moving to Airbus and system engineering in controls and monitoring.
At Meggitt, I am deploying the project management skills I learned in automotive, applying engine condition-monitoring experience to wheels and brakesits just as capable of costing an operator dear when an unexpected condition fault grounds an aircraft for unscheduled maintenance.
We believe in maintenance on conditionlooking after parts when they need it, not when you think they need it, which saves on running costs too.
Its a good marriageMeggitts aircraft braking and sensing systems working together.
Monitoring tyre pressure and wheel speed first, were taking it step by step.
Our goal is the fully integrated system our customers wantone supplier, one contract.
