Financial statements 37 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Report of the directors The directors submit their annual report and the audited financial Post balance sheet events statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Group financial On 3 January 2008, Meggitt completed the disposal of S-TEC Inc. S-TEC statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed to Cobham plc for USD 38 million paid in cash.
S-TEC designs, certifies International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and manufactures general aviation autopilots, supplying original and the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 applicable to companies reporting equipment manufacturers and the aftermarket.
The business was under IFRS.
The Company financial statements have been prepared in no longer considered core to Meggitts current operations.
accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Share capital and control Principal activities and business review The authorised share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2007 Meggitt PLC is a public limited company, listed on the London Stock together with details of shares issued during the financial year is shown Exchange, incorporated in England and Wales with registered number in note 37 on page 83.
During 2007 the authorised share capital of the 432989 and a registered office at Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Company was increased from 32,000,000 to 44,250,000 by the creation Bournemouth International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, BH23 6EW.
of an additional 245,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each.
As at 31 December Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal activities 2007 there were 658,316,007 ordinary shares in issue.
A further 268,062 during the year were the design and manufacture of high technology ordinary shares have been issued between 31 December 2007 and products and systems for the aerospace, defence and other specialist 25 February 2008 as a result of the exercise of share options.
The ordinary markets including medical, industrial, test and automotive.
shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Business Review on pages 11 to 27 outlines the Groups activities The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are and future plans in more detail.
set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
A copy of the Articles of Association is available for inspection at the registered office.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys reports and Group results accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings of the Company: to Profit before taxation amounted to 105.4 million 2006: 126.7 million appoint proxies and to exercise full voting rights.
There are no restrictions as restated.
The profit attributable to ordinary shareholders amounted on transfer or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no to 89.3 million 2006: 94.3 million as restated which after dividends requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
There are no known of 42.2 million 2006: 34.3 million resulted in a retained profit for the arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than financial year of 47.1 million 2006: 60.0 million as restated.
the holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share Dividends schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.75p net per ordinary 5p share 2006: 5.13p as restated to be paid on 4 July 2008 The Company has disclosed significant direct or indirect holdings on to those members on the register at close of business on 14 March 2008. page 38, and this information is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
An interim dividend of 2.45p 2006: 2.23p as restated was paid on 9 November 2007.
If the final dividend as recommended is approved Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors of the Company the total ordinary dividend for the year will amount to 8.20p net per share are contained in the Articles of Association and changes to the Articles of 2006: 7.36p as restated.
Dividends are paid to shareholders net of a Association must be submitted to the shareholders for approval.
The powers non-refundable tax credit of 10%.
Shareholders liable to higher rate of directors are as set out in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of income tax will have additional tax to pay.
Shareholders will be offered the Company and are governed by applicable legislation in force from time a scrip dividend alternative under the share dividend plan in respect to time.
At each Annual General Meeting of the Company, the shareholders of the proposed final dividend.
are requested to renew the directors powers to allot securities in the Company up to a specified value and also to renew the directors powers During 2007 the Company made available the Meggitt PLC share to allot securities without the application of pre-emption rights up to a dividend plan in respect of the dividends paid in July 2007 being the specified value in accordance with Article 4 of the Articles of Association.
final dividend for 2006 and in November 2007 being the interim dividend The Company may, as and when required, seek authority from the for 2007.
The amount of dividend necessary to give an entitlement to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to purchase its own shares.
one new ordinary share was fixed at 341.90p and 318.85p respectively.
There are a number of long-term agreements that may take effect, alter The opening value in respect of each dividend is the market value of or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover one new share on the dividend payment date.
The opening values for bid.
None is considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact the dividends paid in July and November 2007 were 319.00p and 316.50p on the business of the Group as a whole.
In each case, as the difference between the opening value and the amount of the cash dividend necessary to give an entitlement to The service contracts for the executive directors state that if at any time one new share is not more than 15%, HM Revenue & Customs will not during their employment there is a change of control in the Company, seek to substitute the opening value for that amount.
the executive director may elect to terminate their employment within 6 months of that change of control and will be entitled to receive compensation for loss of office from the Company.
The compensation Acquisitions and disposals would be the annual remuneration plus the value of benefits for the On 22 June 2007, Meggitt completed the acquisition of K & F Industries unexpired notice period less 5%.
Holdings, Inc. K & F. Total acquisition costs were 920.1 million The Company does not have any agreements with the non executive comprising net debt acquired of 356.5 million and cash consideration, directors or any other employees that would provide compensation after costs, of 563.6 million.
K & F is a leading provider of wheels and for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that brakes for commercial aircraft, general aviation and military aircraft and provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options a key supplier of engineered fabrics to the US Department of Defense.
and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to The main operations of K & F are located in Ohio, Kentucky and Georgia.
The acquisition was financed by a combination of a rights issue and debt.
38 38 Financial s Financial st tat atements ements Financial s Financial st tat atements ements 39 39 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Report of the directors continued Significant shareholdings Corporate responsibility As at 25 February 2008 the Company had been notified that the The Board takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental following had an interest amounting to 3% or more of the issued and ethical matters and a report giving a full update on activities and ordinary share capital: achievements during 2007 can be found on pages 28 to 31.
In January 2007 Percentage of the Board approved a Corporate Responsibility Policy.
The following specific total voting rights attaching to the matters fall under the broad definition of corporate responsibility: issued ordinary Direct voting Indirect voting share capital of rights rights the Company People Prudential plc 50,070,021 7.60 The Company is aware of the importance of two-way communication AXA SA 5,423,820 32,407,746 5.74 with employees.
Its operating subsidiaries rely on communication and Fidelity International Limited & consultation at site level using the best methods as determined by local FMR Corp 34,883,996 5.30 needs and industry practice.
In addition, employees receive copies of the Bailie Gifford & Co 34,138,890 5.18 Meggitt Review, a newsletter providing details of notable events and Resolution Investment Services Ltd 32,672,307 4.96 achievements in all companies of the Group.
Senior Group executives Lloyds TSB Group plc 32,022,162 4.86 meet together regularly and additionally meet both formally and informally Schroders plc 31,825,191 4.83 with members of the management teams of other Group companies.
Legal & General Group plc 26,347,154 4.00 The directors believe that employees should be encouraged to become Standard Life Investments Ltd 22,153,694 3,769,560 3.94 shareholders in order to enable their active participation in and commitment to the Groups success.
This policy has been pursued for all One voting right per ordinary share.
employees through the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme in the UK.
It is estimated that, when the current years allocation has been Share Incentive Plan made by the Trustee under the Share Incentive Plan, approximately 2,000 The Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan has been allocated 0.8 million UK employees will hold shares in the Company.
The number of employees from 2007 profits to acquire ordinary shares in Meggitt PLC for eligible contributing to the Sharesave Scheme at 31 December 2007 was 901. employees 2006: 0.7 million.
Senior executives are also granted awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Equity Participation Plan, both of which operate throughout the Group, details of which can be found in the Remuneration Directors and their interests Report on page 43.
The directors who served during the year were: Sir Colin Terry, Mr T Twigger, Sir Alan Cox, Mr P E Green, Mr P J Hill, Mr D A Robins, Health and safety at work Mr D M Williams and Mr S G Young.
The Company continues to carry out its responsibility for securing the In accordance with Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association, health, safety and welfare at work of employees of the Company and its Sir Colin Terry, Mr T Twigger and Mr D A Robins retire by rotation at the subsidiaries and for protecting other persons against risks to health and forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible offer themselves safety arising out of, or in connection with, the activities at work of those for re-election.
Mr D A Robins will have been appointed for over six years employees.
Every reasonable effort is made to provide safe working and his proposed re-election has been subject to a rigorous review taking conditions and in addition, protective equipment is provided when into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board, however necessary and safety courses are made available.
In January 2008 the the Board believes that Mr D A Robins excellent understanding of the city Board approved a Group Health and Safety Policy.
and the investment community will continue to be of great value in their Equal opportunities deliberations.
Sir Alan Cox retires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Firstly, he is The Group has a policy supporting the principle of equal opportunities in retiring in accordance with Article 79 of the Companys Articles of employment and opposing all forms of unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Association, by reason of his being over the age of 70.
7.2 of the Combined Code 2006, by reason of his Disabled employees having served as a director for more than 9 years.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to applications made Details of directors contracts and their interests in the ordinary shares of by disabled people, to continue wherever possible the employment of staff the Company are as shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 48. who become disabled and to provide opportunities for the training, career None of the directors has or has had at any time during the financial year development and promotion of disabled employees.
a beneficial interest in any material contract relating to the business of the Group other than service contracts.
Ethics and business conduct The directors have the benefit of qualifying third party indemnity The Group has an Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and a Code of provisions for the purposes of sections 309A to 309C of the Companies Conduct, which were revised in September 2007.
All employees have Act 1985 pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association.
A copy of received a copy of the Code of Conduct and follow up training, which is the Articles of Association is available for inspection at the Companys refreshed on a regular basis.
Ethics and business conduct is reviewed registered office.
The indemnity provisions in the Articles of Association regularly by a committee of the Board.
were amended at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 11 May 2006 to take advantage of changes in legislation allowing companies to grant wider indemnities than previously permitted.
38 38 Financial s Financial st tat atements ements Financial s Financial st tat atements ements 39 39 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Report of the directors continued Community relations and charitable donations Auditors Charitable donations made during the year ended 31 December 2007  LLP have expressed their willingness to amounted to 0.1 million 2006: 0.1 million.
In addition, Meggitt PLC continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will gave financial assistance to local organisations amounting to 20,000 be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
There are also many examples throughout the Group of non-financial assistance being provided to local organisations.
Disclosure of information to auditors Payment policy As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, The Companys policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed and each director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as with a supplier.
Where terms are not negotiated, the Company endeavours a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
Meggitt PLC is a holding and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
company and does not have significant trade creditors.
Its creditor days at 31 December 2007 were 30 days 2006: 30 days.
Group creditor days Statement of directors responsibilities at 31 December 2007 were 63 days 2006: 70 days.
These calculations are made in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and therefore include The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the the full value of trade creditors in acquired businesses but only include Directors Remuneration Report and the Groups and the Companys their purchases from the respective dates of acquisition.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Political contributions Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Groups In accordance with the Groups policy, no contributions were made to financial statements in accordance with IFRS and the Companys financial political parties or political organisations 2006: Nil and no EU political statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with expenditure exceeding 200 was incurred in the year by the Company applicable law and with UK GAAP.
The Groups and Companys financial or any of its subsidiaries 2006: none above 200. statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Research and development Group for that year.
The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: development programmes which bring innovative improvements to the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Group both in the products supplied to the consumer and in production make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: techniques.
Including amounts funded by customers, expenditure on state that the Groups financial statements comply with IFRS, and research and development amounted to 70.0 million 2006: 57.6 million.
with regard to the Companys financial statements that applicable UK Excluding amounts funded by customers, expenditure on research and Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material development amounted to 52.9 million 2006: 37.5 million, of which departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
22.4 million 2006: 14.5 million was capitalised in accordance with the The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements Groups accounting policy see note 2 of the Groups financial statements.
in preparing the financial statements.
Financial risk management The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the The Groups policies on financial risk management are set out in Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the Groups note 3 of the Groups financial statements.
financial statements comply with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the Companys financial statements and Details of resolutions to be proposed at the the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Annual General Meeting They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 24 April 2008, and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
explanations of the resolutions to be proposed, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this report.
In addition The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the to the ordinary business of the meeting, shareholders consent will be Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the sought to: i approve the Remuneration Report: ii renew the authority preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from of the directors to issue shares under Article 4 of the Companys Articles legislation in other juridictions.
of Association: iii approve payments to organisations of no more than By order of the Board 60,000 in total, which might inadvertently be interpreted as donations to EU political organisations under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 as amended by the Electoral Administration Act 2006, although it is not the policy of the Company to make donations to political parties and the directors have no intention of changing that policy, neither do they intend to make any such donations, iv approve new M L Young employee incentive arrangements, namely the 2008 Sharesave Scheme: Company Secretary and v approve amendments to the Companys Articles of Association, 3 March 2008 primarily to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
