24 Business review Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Business review 25 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Defence systems An international training and combat systems business positioned to meet the challenges of modern con ict.
Markets Military aircraft and ground vehicles Armed forces, law enforcement and security organisations Capabilities Integrated training systems live and virtual rearms training low-cost air weapons training acoustic and radar scoring systems Precision-mechanical combat systems automatic linkless feed ammunition-handling mission-critical electronics cooling special purpose deployable pods countermeasure launch and recovery systems Growth strategy Be the preferred supplier worldwide for integrated and networked live and virtual training packages supporting the lead systems integrators implementing armed forces training doctrine and providing deployable systems direct to users ful lling the training needs of police forces and security organisations responding to homeland security requirements Be the preferred supplier worldwide for precision-mechanical systems for combat platforms, sustaining leading positions in electronics cooling and ammunition-handling and selected specialist technologies Build systems, combining the divisions core electrical, mechanical, controls and software capabilities, to pursue larger contracts in our chosen markets Meggitt training tools in Lockheed Martins convoy simulator optimise military convoy procedures by fostering leadership, teamworking and effective incident response.
This minimises the chances of being attacked and, if attacked, enables soldiers to employ the very best defence measures and contain a situation swiftly.
1,000s safer 26 Business review Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Defence systems Financial highlights 206,000 sq ft purpose-built facility in Georgia, US at constant exchange rates in 2008 under the banner of Meggitt Training T otal revenues of 114.2 million, Systems.
Ashford, UK is the European hub for an increase of 28% simulation support and aerial target manufacturing, Underlying operating pro t of 16.6 million, supported by of ces and facilities in the Middle a 3% increase East, Asia and Australia.
Or der intake up 33% on 2006 Combat systems Smart moves On June 11, Meggitt Defence Systems closed the In 2007, Meggitt Defence Systems took steps doors on its Fullerton, Irvine and Tustin sites in towards its vision to be the preferred supplier California and converged its combat systems around the world for integrated training businesses onto one 155,000 sq ft state-of-the art and precision-mechanical systems for combat facility in Irvine.
This fully operational design and platforms across aircraft and combat vehicles.
production facility houses 250 people including 60 engineers, facilities for R&D, test and production, Our goal is to carve out market niches where secure space for classi ed engineering and room we have particular expertise, with products no to grow internally and by acquisition.
one else can match for quality, cost and speed of delivery.
Working more closely together to offer higher value packages of training and Both sides of our businesses meet these more complex systems criteria.
We are a world-leader in sub sonic aerial Cool MULE targets.
We lead in ground targets and simulation.
The consolidated business can control cost more Only reliable cooling systems count Our leading positions in ammunition-handling effectively with uni ed processes and procedures when it comes to keeping missioncritical computer systems running in equipment, electronics cooling, countermeasure and the move sets the scene for growth and military vehicles.
And theyve got to deployment systems, special-purpose aircraft facilitates a systems capability.
With our be small as well as powerful if they pods and radar sensing systems present a tough engineering talent combined on one site, we can are to cool the increasing density of electronics being packed into combat competitive challenge to any contender.
respond more quickly to what our customers want.
Meggitts compact yet We can pursue bigger contracts and create new rugged electronics cooling technology Now, to move forward from these strong positions, product offerings based on integrating our is meeting this requirement on we are combining capabilities to offer higher value current and future platforms.
electrical, mechanical, controls and software packages of training and more complex systems.
Our latest contract win is on MULE These are exempli ed by the networked livere the US Future Combat Systems capability demonstrated last August by Meggitt Divisional overview Multifunction Utility Logistics Equipment Vehicle.
We are also at BATUS, the British Armys premier training The division had a mixed year in 2007.
Overall providing light, portable and powerful range in Canada and the special-purpose pods revenue and pro t were ahead of the previous year, cooling systems for military aircraft integrated with electronics cooling and radar and eight manufacturing locations were reduced to five and vehicles designed in the Reagan era.
They are being retro tted with radomes developed for prime defence contractor, to create a more integrated, ef cient business and powerful devices that control ITT Industries.
the order intake was very strong.
However, taking everything from modern avionics to out the impact of the integration of the FATS better braking systems, emitting Training systems signi cant heat in space that wasnt acquisition, revenue and pro t declined for two The seamless live-virtual training favoured by designed to accommodate them.
First, the cost of the various the armed forces is fundamental to the divisions moves in California and the UK, which have now growth so Meggitts live re training specialist been completed.
Second, uncertainty around the Caswell, acquired in 2003, and simulation house timing of budgetary approvals in the US, which Firearms Training Systems FATS, acquired in slowed orders into our training systems businesses, 2006, are merging and migrating onto a brand-new although this improved later in the year.
Business review 27 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Our customers continued to recognise our production since 2000 and the USD36 million extensive capabilities and awarded further order received in 2007 will ensure this substantial development contracts on ghting programme continues for the foreseeable future.
vehicles that will result in future large-scale We anticipate further orders to complete the production programmes.
We have won three retro t of existing vehicles and installation in new contracts on the US Future Combat Systems production, which includes an order from the vehicle programme: further development of the Saudi Arabian armed forces.
As the only ground 120mm autoloader for the Mounted Combat combat vehicle thermal management system System: initial development of the 30mm to have been proven in theatre, we are in a autoloader for the Infantry Carrier Vehicle: and strong position to win continuing orders on the integrated electronics cooling system on the next generation ground combat vehicles such 13.
0 MULE Multifunctional Utility Logistics and as the M1A3 tank which is expected to commence % of group revenue Equipment vehicle programme.
These contracts development in 2009 10 and enter into service should result in production contracts worth over around 2016.
USD500 million starting in 2014, positioning us to Substantial development contracts win further programmes for these gun variants that will result in future large-scale on other vehicles such as the Expeditionary production programmes Fighting Vehicle.
With our strong order book and restructured 1 14.2 We continued to win fresh production orders for facilities, defence systems should show Revenue millions the cooling system on the M1A2 SEP Abrams substantial improvement in 2008. tank.
The system has been in continuous 16.
6 Underlying operating pro t millions Greg Hill Director of Marketing, Ordnance Systems Meggitt Defence Systems After the US Submarine Service, I found my niche in marketing at General Dynamics.
Thats where I was first exposed to Meggitts ingenious automatic ammunition handling systemsreloading the rapidre Phalanx Close-In Weapons System.
Meggitts ammunition-handling systems were launched 25 years ago on the Apache attack helicopter and later, infantry carriers and tank gun systems.
Theyre extremely fast, light, compact and reliable and have never been betteredexcept by us.
Today, the US Army Future Combat System programme is incorporating this technology into a new generation of agile, rapidly deployable land vehicles.
Whats more, theres enormous scope for our failsafe systems on unmanned weapons.
In the heat of battle, soldiers need to keep the mission in their sights rather than on the breech of a gun.
This requires machines that line up and load ammunition fast and with surgical precision.
Its my privilege to work on the autoloaders that wont let them down.
