treasury management and currency risk Principal risks and uncertainties It is the Directors intention to continue to finance the activities the management of the business and the execution of and development of the Group from retained earnings, the Companys strategy are subject to a number of risks.
and to operate the Groups business while maintaining the following section comprises a summary of what the net cash debt position within a relatively narrow band.
Michael page International plc believes are the main risks Cash generated in excess of these requirements will be used that could potentially impact the Groups operating and to buy back the Companys shares.
Cash surpluses are invested in short-term deposits, people with any working capital requirements being provided from the resignation of key individuals and the inability to recruit Group cash resources, Group facilities, or by local overdraft talented people with the right skill-sets could adversely facilities.
the Group has set up a multi-currency notional affect the Groups results.
this is further compounded by cash pool in 007.
Currently the main eurozone subsidiaries the Groups organic growth strategy and its policy of not and the uK-based Group treasury subsidiary participate in externally hiring senior operational positions.
Mitigation of this cash pool, although it is the intention to extend the scope this risk is achieved by succession planning, training of staff, of the participation to other Group companies.
the structure competitive pay structures linked to the Groups results and facilitates interest and balance compensation of cash and career progression.
Macro economic environment the main functional currencies of the Group are Sterling, euro and australian Dollar.
the Group does not have material recruitment activity is largely driven by economic cycles transactional currency exposures, nor is there a material and the levels of business confidence.
the Board look to exposure to foreign denominated monetary assets and reduce the Groups cyclical risk by expanding geographically, liabilities.
the Group is exposed to foreign currency translation by increasing the number of disciplines, by building partdifferences in accounting for its overseas operations.
qualified and clerical businesses and by continuing to build our policy is not to hedge this exposure.
In certain cases, where the Group gives or receives shorta substantial portion of the Groups gross profit arises from term loans to and from other Group companies with different fees which are contingent upon the successful placement of reporting currencies, it may use foreign exchange swap a candidate in a position.
If a client cancels the assignment at derivative financial instruments to manage the currency and any stage in the process the Group receives no remuneration.
interest rate exposure that arises on these loans.
It is the as a consequence the Groups visibility of gross profits is Groups policy not to seek to designate these derivatives generally quite short and tends to reduce further during as hedges.
OffICES In 50 EaCH COUntRy 40 30 added during 2007 added during 2006 20 offices at 2005 10 0 8 MIChael paGe InternatIonal Number of offices UK France Spain Netherlands Australia USA Germany Italy Switzerland China Brazil Belgium Sweden Portugal Poland Canada Japan Singapore Russia Mexico Ireland South Africa UAE Luxembourg Argentina Competition regular reviews of the Groups technology strategy to ensure that it supports the overall Group strategy.
the degree of competition varies in each of the Groups main regions.
In the uK, australia and north america, the legal recruitment market is well developed, highly competitive the Group operates in a large number of jurisdictions which and fragmented.
the characteristics of a developed market have varying legal and compliance regulations.
the Group are greater competition for clients and candidates, as well takes its responsibilities seriously and ensures that its policies, as pricing pressure.
In eMea, latin america and asia, the systems and procedures are continually updated to reflect recruitment market is generally less developed with a large best practice and to comply with the legal requirements in proportion of all recruitment being carried out by companies all the markets in which it operates.
In order to reduce the internal resources rather than through recruitment specialists.
legal and compliance risks, fee earners and support staff this is changing rapidly due to changes in legislation, receive regular training and updates of changes in legal and increasing job mobility and the difficulty internal resources compliance requirements.
face in sourcing suitably qualified candidates.
If the Group does not continue to compete in its markets effectively, by hiring new staff, opening and expanding offices and continuing the discipline roll-outs, there is a risk that competitors may beat us to key strategic opportunities, which may result in lost business and a reduction in market Stephen Puckett share.
this risk is mitigated by meetings of the Main Board, executive Board and regional and Country Management Group Finance Director Boards where Group strategy is continually reviewed and March 008 decisions made over the allocation of the Groups resources, principally people.
technology the Group is reliant on a number of technology systems to provide services to clients and candidates.
these systems are durIng the dependent on a number of important suppliers that provide the technology infrastructure and disaster recovery solutions.
the year, the grouP performance of these suppliers are continually monitored to generated net cash ensure business critical services are available and maintained as far as practically possible.
Due to the rapid advancement froM oPeratIng of technology, there is a risk that systems could become actIvItIes of outdated with the potential to affect efficiency and have an impact on revenue and client service.
this risk is mitigated by 148.7M, uP 89%.
DISCIPlInES In 15 EaCH COUntRy 12 added during 2007 9 added during 2006 6 disciplines at 2005 3 0 annual report 007 9 Number of disciplines UK France Spain Netherlands Australia USA Germany Italy Switzerland China Brazil Belgium Sweden Portugal Poland Canada Singapore Japan Mexico Russia Ireland South Africa UAE Luxembourg Argentina
