Board of directors Sir adrian montague CBE 60 Stephen Box 57 non-Executive Chairman independent non-Executive director, senior independent director Sir adrian Montague is non-executive Chairman of British energy plc, Friends provident plc and Infrastructure Investors Stephen Box is a Chartered accountant who spent more limited.
From 1997 to 001 he held senior posts concerned than years at Coopers & lybrand, 1 of these as a partner.
with the implementation of the Governments policies for the From august 1997 to november 00 he was Finance involvement of the private sector in the delivery of public Director of national Grid.
he is a member of the Financial services, first as Chief executive of the treasury taskforce reporting review panel and a non-executive Director of and then as Deputy Chairman of partnerships uK plc.
partyGaming plc pG, thames Water utilities ltd tWul and he was Deputy Chairman of network rail from 001 to 00 Wales & West utilities ltd WWu.
Stephen has experience and non-executive Chairman of Cross london rail links of audit Committees as a partner at Coopers & lybrand, limited from 00 to 00. he spent his early career as as an executive Director of national Grid attending audit a solicitor with linklaters & paines before joining Kleinwort Committees, and as a non-executive Director chairing the Benson in 199.
Sir adrian is also a non-executive Director audit Committees of pG, tWul and WWu, and formerly of of london First, CellMark aB, the pulp and paper marketing South east Water limited.
he was appointed a non-executive company based in Gothenburg, a Director of Skanska aB, Director of Michael page International plc on 7 February the Swedish international construction group, and a trustee 001. he is chairman of the audit Committee and is a member of the historic royal palaces.
he was awarded a CBe in of the remuneration and nomination Committees.
001 and a knighthood in 006. he is also Chairman of the nomination Committee.
Charles-Henri Dumon 49 Managing director Continental Europe and Steve Ingham 45 the Americas Chief Executive Charles-henri Dumon joined Michael page in 198 and Steve Ingham joined Michael page in 1987 as a consultant was appointed a Director in 1987.
Since then he has had with Michael page Marketing and Sales.
he was responsible full responsibility for the Groups operations in France and for setting up the london marketing and sales businesses has managed the Groups entry into Southern europe and and was promoted to operating Director in 1990. he was South america.
he was appointed Managing Director for all appointed Managing Director of Michael page Marketing and Michael pages european and South american businesses in Sales in 199.
Subsequently he took additional responsibility January 001. his responsibilities were increased to include for Michael pages retail, technology, human resources and north america in January 006. engineering businesses.
he was promoted to the Board as executive Director of uK operations in January 001, and subsequently to Managing Director of uK operations in May 00. he was appointed Chief executive on 6 april 006.
0 MIChael paGe InternatIonal Ruby mcGregor-Smith 45 ExECUtIvE BOaRD independent non-Executive director In addition to the executive Directors, the executive Board ruby McGregor-Smith qualified as a Chartered accountant comprises alexis fide Bretteville regional Managing Director with BDo Stoy hayward and was appointed to the Board of - the americas, Christophe Duchatellier regional Managing Michael page International plc on May 007.
She is Chief Director - europe excluding France, Gary James regional executive of MItIe Group plC, a position she has held since Managing Director - asia pacific and andrew Wayland Chief March 007. previously to being appointed Chief executive, Information officer.
she held the positions of Group Finance Director and then alexis fide Bretteville 45 Chief operating officer.
prior to joining MItIe Group plC, Regional Managing director the Americas she held a range of senior roles within the support services sector, primarily at Serco Group plc.
She is a member of the alexis fide Bretteville joined Michael page in 199 as a audit, remuneration and nomination Committees.
In 1997 he was appointed Managing Director of Michael page Spain, launching Spain, Dr tim miller 50 portugal and later, Brazil.
In 00 he moved to Germany, independent non-Executive director taking on responsibility for Germany, Belgium and Sweden.
In 00 he moved to Belgium when his responsibilities also Dr tim Miller was appointed to the Board on 1 august included holland and the launch of poland in 00.
In 006 00 and became Chairman of the remuneration Committee he became regional Managing Director for the the americas, on 16 September 00. he is also a member of the audit based in new York, having responsibility for Michael page in and nomination Committees.
tim has wide experience uSa, Canada, Brazil, Mexico and most recently argentina.
in human resources and has held a number of senior hr and business roles in the information technology, retail Christophe Duchatellier 45 and pharmaceutical sectors.
he is currently a Director of Regional Managing director Continental Europe Standard Chartered Bank, responsible for hr, Corporate excluding france real estate, Corporate Secretariat, legal, Compliance & regulatory risk, Internal audit, Global research and Christophe Duchatellier joined Michael page in 199 as operational excellence functions.
he progressed to Director having launched the Mp Secretarial business in France.
In 1997 Stephen Puckett 46 he moved to Milan, Italy and launched Michael page Italy Group finance director and in 001 Michael page Switzerland.
In 00 he assumed responsibility as regional Managing Director for Spain and Stephen puckett qualified as a Chartered accountant with portugal.
In 006 he moved to Geneva and assumed BDo Binder hamlyn.
he joined Wace Group plc in 1988 as additional responsibility for northern, Central and eastern Director of Corporate Finance, subsequently being promoted europe, also assisting with the launch of Mp russia, 006 to Group Finance Director in 1991. he was Group Finance and Mp luxembourg, 007.
Director of Stat plus Group plc in 000, and appointed Group Finance Director of Michael page International plc in January Gary James 46 001. he was a non-executive Director of Shl Group plc Regional Managing director Asia pacific from 00 to 006.
Gary James joined Michael page Finance in london in 198. he was appointed Director of Michael page Sales Hubert Reid 67 & Marketing in 199, Managing Director of Michael page independent non-Executive director Marketing in 1997 and transferred to america in 00 as hubert reid is Chairman of enterprise Inns plc and of the Managing Director of north america.
he moved to australia Midas Income and Growth trust plC and Deputy Chairman and was appointed Managing Director of the asia pacific of Majedie Investments plC.
he was previously Managing region in august 006.
Director and then Chairman of the Boddington Group plc, and a non-executive Director and then Chairman of andrew wayland 41 Ibstock plc, Bryant Group plc and the royal london Group.
Chief information Officer he was appointed a non-executive Director of Michael page andrew Wayland was the uK It Business Management International plc on February 00. he is a member of the Director of  where he worked for audit, remuneration and nomination Committees.
over 10 years in the internal It functions.
he brings extensive experience in establishing It strategy and innovation to support the wider business strategy, and integrating technology teams.
he was appointed Chief Information officer of Michael page in December 00. annual report 007 1 Directors report Principal activity and review of the business and Sir adrian Montague CBe Chairman future developments Steve Ingham Chief executive the Group is one of the worlds leading specialist recruitment Stephen Box consultancies.
the Groups trading results are set out in the Charles-henri Dumon financial statements on pages to 8.
Details of the Groups ruby McGregor-Smith appointed May 007 strategy, outlook and review of operations are described in the Chairmans Statement, operational review and Financial Dr tim Miller review on pages 16 to 9.
Stephen puckett hubert reid Enhanced Business Review non-executive Directors the Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended Senior Independent Director 1 December 007 and of the position of the Group at the In accordance with the Companys articles of association, end of that financial year, together with a description of the Steve Ingham, Dr tim Miller and ruby McGregor-Smith will principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as retire by rotation at the annual General Meeting and, being an enhanced Business review.
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
the information that fulfils the requirements of this review can Biographical details for all the current Directors are shown be found in the following sections of the annual report: on pages 0 and 1. review of operations page 18 to the beneficial interests of Directors in office at 1 December Strategy page 10 to 1 007 in the shares of the Company at 1 December 007 and at March 008 are set out in the remuneration report Key performance indicators page 7 on pages to 9.
Future outlook pages 17, and all of the executive Directors are deemed to have an interest risks and uncertainties pages 8 and 9 in the ordinary shares held in the employee Benefit trust and Financial review page to 9 its subsidiaries.
Corporate responsibility page to 6 the Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year directors and officers liability insurance in respect of Significant agreements itself and its directors.
the directors also have the benefit of there are no significant agreements that take effect, alter or the indemnity provision contained in the Companys articles terminate upon a change of control of the Company following of association.
these provisions, which are qualifying third a takeover bid.
party indemnity provisions as defined by Section of the Companies act 006 previously Section 09B of the Directors and interests Companies act 198, were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
the following were Directors during the year and held office throughout the year other than as shown below.
MIChael paGe InternatIonal Results and dividends the profit for the year after taxation amounted to 101.7m 006: 6. m. a final dividend for 006 of.
pence per ordinary share was paid on June 007. an interim dividend of.
pence per ordinary share was paid on 1 october 007. the Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 1 December 007 of.
6 pence per ordinary share on 9 June 008 to shareholders on the register on 9 May 008 which, if approved at the annual General Meeting, will result in a total dividend for the year of 8.0 pence per ordinary share 006: 6.0 pence.
the grouP Is one Share capital of the worlds the authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
leadIng sPecIalIst at the annual General Meeting held on May 007, recruItMent the Company renewed its authority to make market purchases consultancIes.
of its own ordinary shares up to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
During the year, the Company purchased 11. m shares which were immediately cancelled.
m shares were also purchased by the employee benefit trust and held to fund share scheme awards.
the total nominal value of all shares repurchased was 0. m and represented.
% of the issued share capital.
the shares were purchased for a consideration of 7.
9m including expenses.. 7m shares were also issued to satisfy share options exercised during the year.
annual report 007 Substantial shareholdings a Environmental policy as at February 008, the Company has been notified of the Group does not operate in a business sector which the interests held in more than % of the issued share capital causes significant pollution, but the Board recognises that of the Company as shown in Fig.
the business does have an impact on the environment.
the Board is committed to managing and improving the way in which our activities affect the environment by: Fig.
Substantial Shareholdings optimising the use of energy: ensuring the efficient use of materials: Number of ordinary % of issued encouraging re-use and recycling: and Holder shares share capital incorporating the principle of sustainable development.
Capital International Limited 33,990,190 10.38 During the year, the Group has continued to allocate a Standard Life Investments 30,084,802 9.19 significant amount of time and resource to further identify AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 16,305,201 4.98 where its activities have an impact on the environment.
Barclays plc 16,223,821 4.96 a review is carried out annually in accordance with the guidance as laid down by the Department for environment, JP Morgan 15,993,951 4.88 Food and rural affairs DeFra, and the Global reporting Legal & General 13,368,196 4.08 Initiative GrI, an independent international institution established to create a common framework for sustainability reporting worldwide.
Corporate responsibility CR the current environmental report, which covers our uK the Board recognises its responsibilities in respect of social, businesses only, will shortly be available on the Michael page environmental and ethical See matters, with the Chief website.
a summary of its findings during 007 is shown executive having Board responsibility for Group environmental below.
the Directors continually monitor all risks to the Groups businesses, including See risks, which may Waste impact the Groups short and long-term value.
During 007 1 tonnes of waste was generated by uK offices.
no significant See risks were identified.
the Company is our current national recycling rate is.
0% from recycling also a member of the FtSe Good Index Series designed confidential paper and toner cartridges.
to measure the performance of, and facilitate investment in, those companies meeting globally recognised standards of through recycling, Michael page in the uK has saved, 77 trees and saved a total of 7 8m landfill space.
the Groups policies on Cr matters are described in the a summary is shown in Fig.. below.
UK Waste Generation Annual weight % of total generated tonnes waste Confidential waste 61 28% Toners 3 1% Mixed office paper 80 35% Food waste and packaging 13 6% Aluminium cans 20 9% Glass bottles 8 4% Plastic bottles & plastic cups 20 9% Cardboard 8 4% Miscellaneous 8 4% Total 221 100% MIChael paGe InternatIonal Energy with disabilities through hanploi.
com, as well as various other charities involved in issues such as anti-discrimination and 6,166, kWh of electricity was consumed in the uK, cancer.
In holland, a team redecorated rooms for parents to which converts to 1,97 tonnes Co. stay when they visit their sick children.
they also participated, 17, 1 0 kWh of gas was consumed in the uK, which in various cancer related charity events.
In the uK, subject to certain restrictions, the Group matches through recycling Michael page in the uK has saved charitable donations made by employees.
nominated Cancer research uK as our charity of the year.
Water We have sponsored a number of different initiatives and have so far raised approximately 100,000 for the charity.
In the uK, Michael page consumed 9,61 m of water.
In the americas, Michael page Brazil engaged in a number transport of charity events, sponsoring a charity auction in aid of Boys In total, uK employees travelling to and from work converts and Girls hope worldwide, sponsorship of a new location in to 1,100 tonnes Co. Sao paulo for the projeto Guri bringing music and culture to poor areas of the city, and ongoing help and support More Green for Gotas fide Flor com amor, an institution focusing on as a company committed to green issues, we are actively childrens education.
involved in finding work practices that can help reduce our In asia pacific, Michael page australia provided sponsorship carbon footprint.
More Green was launched in the uK in to children via the World Vision charity and held numerous 007 to focus employees more actively on green issues and charitable events, supporting a range of charities including to advertise internally the environmental matters in which the Breast Cancer Foundation, Juvenile Diabetes Foundation Michael page is engaged.
and ronald McDonald house Childrens Charity.
In hong Michael page are proud consumers of Green Choice energy Kong, Michael page hong Kong supported childrens cancer which is the most environmentally sound electricity option charities with a range of events including rickshaw and sedan available in the uK.
Green Choice energy supplies electricity chair style races.
from environmental sources coming from a mixture of c Employee involvement renewable sources.
these sources do not involve the burning of fossil fuels, which produce Co emissions.
employees are involved in all aspects of the business.
Michael page International is featured in the Sunday together, Michael page and page personnel in the uK times 100 Best Companies to Work For.
the Group has earned a SIta Certificate of recycling.
In 008 we will be been placed in the top 100 consistently every year and working hard to make an even greater effort to reduce our has recently moved from a 1 star to a star accreditation environmental impact.
receiving particular commendations for culture, team sprit, b Charitable donations people development and leadership.
In addition, the Group the Group made charitable donations of 89,800 during the has engaged an external organisation to implement on-line year 006: 9, 16.
Included in donations are amounts exit interviews with a view to enhancing its knowledge of made to various local charities serving the communities in employee engagement and satisfaction issues.
It is the Groups policy not to Communication with employees is effected through Group make political donations.
newsletters, the Companys Intranet, information bulletins, In eMea, Michael page Switzerland participated in the briefing meetings conducted by senior management and Course fide lescalade in support of the red Cross, while formal and informal discussions.
Interim and annual reports in Michael page Germany, a candidate charitable donation are available to all staff.
Informal communication is further programme was introduced in aid of aktion Mensch, facilitated by the Groups divisional organisation structure.
Michael page France has been working with In the americas, Michael page uSa was ranked number 1 several charities for a number of years.
they have helped young executive recruitment firm in new York by Crains in both people develop social skills and confidence through Sport 006 and 007, voted one of the best places to work in Dans la Ville, the provision of employment opportunities for Connecticut by the hartford Business Journal and voted older people through la Fondation fide la me Chance and one of the best places to work in Massachusetts by the Cadraxion 78, the encouragement of employment of people Boston Business Journal.
