Directors report The directors of Micro Focus International plc the Company present Post balance sheet events their report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the On 4 May 2007, the Company announced that it had agreed to acquire year ended 30 April 2007.
Acucorp, Inc. for a total cash consideration of $40.7 million paid in full on completion plus a working capital adjustment capped at a maximum of Principal activities $0.25 million.
Further information on the acquisition is to be found in the The principal activities of the Group during the year were the provision Chief Executive Officers statement and in the finance review.
of enterprise application management solutions.
Directors and their interests The Company is limited by shares and is domiciled and incorporated The directors of the Company who served during the year are as follows: in the United Kingdom.
The registered office of the Company is: The Lawn, 2230 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN Executive Stephen Kelly Review of business and future developments Nick Bray For details regarding the Groups activity and the future developments Mike Shinya appointed 26 February 2007 of the Group, please refer to the Chief Executive Officers statement on Non-executive pages 10 to 12 and the finance review on pages 13 to 15.
Kevin Loosemore Chairman David Maloney Dividend David Dominik The board has adopted a progressive dividend policy reflecting the Prescott Ashe long-term earnings and cash flow potential of Micro Focus whilst targeting John Browett resigned 27 September 2006 a level of dividend cover for the financial year ended 30 April 2007 of Tom Skelton appointed 23 October 2006 approximately 2.5 times on a pre-exceptional earnings basis.
In line with Paul Pester appointed 27 June 2007 the above policy announced at the time of the IPO the directors Kevin Loosemore also served as interim Chief Executive Officer from 22 February 2006 to recommend payment of a final dividend in respect of 2007 of 7 cents per 21 May 2006. share, which, taken together with the interim dividend of 3 cents per share paid in January 2007, gives a total dividend in respect of 2007 of 10 cents Details of the interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid shares of the Company, as disclosed in the register of directors interests, on 1 October 2007 to shareholders on the register on 7 September 2007. are given in the remuneration report on pages 26 to 31.
Dividends will be paid in Sterling based on an exchange rate of 2.0 $, equivalent to approximately 3.5 pence per share, being the rate applicable None of the directors has a material interest in any contract of significance on 27 June 2007, the date of recommendation of the dividend by to which the parent company or a subsidiary was a party during the the board.
financial year, as disclosed in note 29, related party transactions.
Research and development The Company maintains insurance cover for all directors and officers of The Group invested $28.4 million in research and development during Group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them whilst the year to 30 April 2007 2006: $26.8 million including $5.3 million acting as directors and officers.
This expenditure was incurred in improving the quality, functionality and extending the range of the Groups innovative As at the date of this report indemnities are in force under which the software solutions.
Company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by law and by the Articles of Association against liabilities they may incur Donations in the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
The Companys policy is to make no donations to political parties 2006: nil.
During the year, the Group made charitable donations of $16,000 to a Employment policy variety of local and national charities in the UK and USA 2006: nil.
Equal opportunities The Group operates an equal opportunities policy.
Full consideration In the coming year, the Company and its employees will be raising funds is given to all job applicants, irrespective of gender, age, marital status, to support its nominated charity Street Child Africa.
The Company will disability, sexuality, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national origin or any continue to support sporting activities in local schools, sports clubs and other conditions not relevant to the performance of the job, who can local charities.
demonstrate that they have the necessary skills and abilities.
18 Disabled employees Substantial shareholding With regard to existing employees and those who may become disabled, On 20 January 2007 the Companies Act 1985 provisions in respect the Groups policy is to examine ways and means to provide continuing of substantial shareholdings were repealed and the Disclosure and employment under its existing terms and conditions and to provide Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority came into force.
training and career development, including promotion, wherever As at 25 July 2007, the Company had been advised of the following appropriate.
All employees accept the commitment within this policy that notifiable interests in its voting rights: the Group will not allow discrimination or harassment by employees or Ordinary shares Percentage of others acting on the Groups behalf, in respect of sex, age, marital status, Name of holder of 10 pence each issued capital race, nationality, disability or religious or political beliefs.
Golden Gate Capital 70,026,157 35.00% Majedie Asset Management Limited 16,330,461 8.17% Employee involvement Barclays PLC 13,966,795 6.98% The Group believes it is important that employees are aware of the Fidelity International Limited 6,605,572 3.30% Groups business strategy and objectives to assist them to focus on working towards these goals.
Communications at the time of key announcements, including presentations by directors to all employees, Annual General Meeting together with briefings throughout the year, are part of the The notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company communication and consultation programme.
In addition, regular together with the explanatory notes on the proposed resolutions meetings are held with staff and managers, both to raise issues and accompanies this report.
The meeting will be held at: to assist with the two-way flow of information.
The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN on 26 September 2007 at 3pm.
Further education and training Continuing education, training and development are important to ensure Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors the future success of the Group.
The Group supports individuals who wish So far as they are aware, the directors at the date of this report confirm to obtain appropriate further education qualifications and reimburses that there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed tuition fees up to a specified level.
Training needs of all employees are also by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of analysed during the annual appraisal process, at which time a training plan which the Companys auditors are unaware, and that the directors have is agreed as part of each individuals ongoing development.
taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Share option schemes that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The directors remain committed to the principle that selected employees should be able to participate in the Groups progress through share-based  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue compensation schemes.
Details of the Groups share-based compensation in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at schemes are given in note 24. the AGM.
Payment of creditors Going concern Micro Focus International plc, which holds the investments in the Groups The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company and the companies, does not trade itself and does not have suppliers as defined Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for by the Companies Act 1985.
The directors believe, however, it would be the foreseeable future, and therefore it is appropriate to maintain the helpful to give the disclosures on a consolidated basis.
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Group seeks the best possible terms from suppliers appropriate to By order of the board their business and in placing orders gives consideration to quality, delivery, price and terms of payment.
The Group does not follow a specific payment code but has a policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the specific terms agreed with each supplier.
The average number of days purchases outstanding at 30 April 2007 for the Group was 35 days Jane Smithard Company Secretary 2006: 30 days.
