Board focus Left to right: Kevin Loosemore, Stephen Kelly, Nick Bray, Prescott Ashe, David Dominik, Mike Shinya, Paul Pester, David Maloney, Tom Skelton 16 Kevin Loosemore, 48 Non-executive Chairman David Dominik, 51 Non-executive director Kevin was the Chief Operating Officer of Cable & Wireless plc from April David has been a Managing Director of Golden Gate Capital since its 2003 to 31 March 2005.
He was previously President of Motorola Europe, inception in 2000.
He previously spent ten years as a Managing Director Middle East and Africa and, before that, was Chief Executive of IBM UK at Bain Capital.
He managed Information Partners, a specialised fund and a member of the IBM Worldwide Management Committee.
From within Bain Capital, that focused on opportunities in the information 1997 to 1999 he was Managing Director of fide La Rue Card Systems.
services and software markets and also served on the investment He has a degree in politics and economics from Oxford University.
committee of Brookside, Bain Capitals public equity hedge fund.
David has a juris doctor degree from Harvard Law School cum laude and an AB Stephen Kelly, 45 Executive director and Chief Executive Officer in social studies economics and history from Harvard College magna cum Stephen Kelly was named Chief Executive Officer in May 2006.
He was laude: Phi Beta Kappa.
previously Chief Executive Officer of Chordiant, from January 2002 to February 2006.
He served as Chordiants President and Chief Operating Prescott Ashe, 40 Non-executive director Officer from October 2000 through January 2002, and as senior vice Prescott has been a Managing Director of Golden Gate Capital since its president of International operations from October 1998 to October 2000. inception in 2000.
He was previously a principal at Bain Capital, which he Prior to this, he spent almost ten years in a number of senior management joined in 1991 and, before that, was a consultant at the global strategy positions with Oracle.
Stephen received his BSc with honours in business consultancy, Bain & Company.
Prescott has a juris doctor degree from administration from the University of Bath.
Stanford Law School and a bachelor of science degree in business administration from the University of California at Berkeley.
Nick Bray, 42 Executive director and Chief Financial Officer Nick became Chief Financial Officer in January 2006.
He was previously Tom Skelton, 45 Non-executive director Group Finance Director of Fibernet Group plc, having joined the company Tom served as Chief Executive Officer for Misys Healthcare Systems from in February 2001.
Before that, he held the positions of Group Chief January 2002 until March 2007 and as a director of Misys plc.
Prior to that, Financial Officer of Gentia Software plc and Chief Accounting Officer he was Chief Executive Officer, Medic Computer Systems, a US-based of Comshare Inc.
He started his career at Price Waterhouse where he software company focused on the healthcare information technology qualified as a chartered accountant.
Nick has a first class honours degree market.
He earned his BSBA from Robert Morris University in Pittsburgh, Pa. in civil engineering from Aston University.
Paul Pester, 43 Non-executive director Mike Shinya, 49 Executive director and Chief Operating Officer Paul was appointed a non-executive director on 27 June 2007: he is Mike was named Chief Operating Officer in July 2006 and was appointed Managing Director of Consumer Banking at Lloyds TSB Group.
He is also to the board in February 2007.
Mike is responsible for leading the Chairman of the British Bankers Association BBA Retail Committee, and companys Go to Market operations.
This encompasses all sales activity, Chairman of the Travellers Cheque Association.
From September 2007 he professional technical services, marketing and branding.
He has held senior will join Moneyfacts Group as Chief Executive Officer.
Paul holds a first executive positions at SAS Institute, IBM, Oracle and Baan Company.
From class honours degree in physics from Manchester University and a 2001 to the end of 2003, he was Chief Executive Officer of Sherwood doctorate in mathematical physics from Oxford University.
Mike holds a BA Hons Degree in economics and social sciences and graduated from the University of East Anglia.
Audit committee David Maloney, 51 Non-executive director Remuneration committee David is Chairman of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd and a non-executive director Nomination committee of Ludorum plc, Cineworld Group plc and Carillion plc.
His most recent executive role was as Chief Financial Officer of the global hotel group Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts.
Prior to that he was Chief Financial Officer of Thomson Travel Group and Preussag Airlines, and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
David is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and has a degree in economics from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh.
