Market focus Micro Focus delivers value through Enterprise Application Management in four principal areas.
Our strategy review identified significant opportunities for further penetrating the Global 2000 market space.
To support this drive, we will continue to partner effectively with key System Integrators SIs to service new demand.
In addition, our focus on Independent Software Vendors ISVs will bring additional offerings to small and mid-sized enterprises SMEs.
Micro Focus delivers value through Enterprise Application Management in four principal areas: The sales team has been strengthened and we will continue to invest to drive the Global 2000 We continue to focus on the increasing need for businesses to re-energise business forward.
Our approach to marketing and maximise the inherent value in their existing enterprise applications, and sales has been refined, including a more than 75% of which run on COBOL technologies.
In the case of strong focus on developing senior level the Global 2000, this means understanding the complexity of existing applications and the value they bring to the enterprise.
Many large contacts within our target customers.
organisations, driven by the reduction in application knowledge and Stephen Kelly Chief Executive Officer disappointment in the promised packaged solution, need a pragmatic means of retaining, and building on, the best of what they have while achieving flexibility and agility to enable them to move forward.
As a result, there are significant opportunities for Micro Focus, particularly in the Financial Services, Retail and Manufacturing sectors.
Systems Integrators Systems Integrators present one of the most important of our opportunities, and many large companies are turning to them to better understand their existing IT environment, and to devise the most effective strategies to improve the IT support for their businesses.
For many, SIs now manage the outsourced IT staff and applications which are already using Micro Focus technologies.
04 Independent software vendors Independent software vendors ISVs are at the core of Micro Partners Focus business.
We continue to help ISVs deliver more value to their No single company can provide a complete customers through new functionality, system interoperability and modern user interfaces.
To enable us to meet our customers needs more comprehensively and Small and mid-sized enterprises effectively, we work with a selection of partners SMEs present a considerable business opportunity.
Many SMEs are seeking ways to adapt applications and make them work better within their around the world, from strategic partnerships existing IT environments.
to key SI and ISV relationships through our consortium of partners, each of which has its With more than 70% of their IT budgets allocated to the operation and maintenance of existing applications, many organisations are own particular skills and area of specialisation.
looking to Micro Focus for tools and solutions to release the valuable resources they need to invest in the IT innovation which will give them competitive advantage.
Gartner Forrester Acquisitions Micro Focus has completed two acquisitions to enable it to increase its ability to meet the markets need for Application Development and Application Portfolio Management two key solutions within our enterprise application management portfolio.
In November 2006, we acquired HAL KS, the leading developer of Application Portfolio Micro Focus modernisation expertise is not Management APM technology.
The addition only helping us maintain the momentum of HAL KSs APM expertise puts us in a unique behind this strategic IT project, but is also position to meet organisations needs to playing a key role in the development of understand, assess and extend the value of their our United States presence.
This project will existing applications.
help us meet our goal of opening our first store in 2007.
In May 2007, we acquired Acucorp, Inc.
This Colin Cobain Group IT Director, Tesco acquisition gives us additional software to address the specific Application Development needs of the broader ISV and SME markets.
