Board of Directors Mr Kwek is a Member of the Action Community of Entrepreneurship ACE, which involves both the private and public sectors to create a more entrepreneurial environment in Singapore for small and medium enterprises.
Mr Kwek has distinguished himself in property investment and development, hotel ownership and management, financial services and industrial enterprises.
Today, he sits on the flagship of a multi-billion empire KWEK LENG BENG, 67 # worth over US$20 billion in diversified Chairman and Chairman of WONG HONG REN, 56 premium assets worldwide, with an annual Nominations Committee Interim Group Chief Executive turnover of US$4.55 billion and stocks Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Wong Hong Ren joined Millennium & traded on six of the worlds stock markets.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc since its Copthorne Hotels plc as a non-executive He currently heads worldwide staff strengths incorporation.
Director at the flotation of the Group.
He is of over 40,000 across a range of businesses a non-executive Director of City e-Solutions He is the Executive Chairman of the Hong in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe Limited and Executive Vice President Group Leong Group of Companies in Singapore, and North America.
Mr Kwek also played Investment of Hong Leong Management and City Developments Limited.
He is also a pivotal advisory role in Las Vegas Sands Services Limited in Singapore.
Mr Wong was Chairman and Managing Director of Hong Corporations successful bid for Singapores appointed as an Executive Director of the Leong Finance Limited and City e-Solutions high profile Integrated Resort project at the Company in April 2001.
Limited and the Chairman of Hong Leong Marina Bay.
Asia Ltd. JOHN ARNETT, 54 In 2007, Mr Kwek brought together high Executive Director Mr Kweks achievements have also captured profile global players Dubai World and Elad John Arnett joined Millennium & Copthorne the attention of the academic institutions.
Group to join City Developments Limited Hotels plc as Chief Executive Officer of He was conferred: to win the coveted bid to build a turnNorth America on 14 March 2007, and was key, iconic mixed-use development, South appointed an Executive Director of the Board Honorary Doctorate of Business Beach, in the Civic District at Beach Road.
Administration in Hospitality from Johnson Elad Group is a real-estate development & Wales University Rhode Island, US, where conglomerate based in New York.
Dubai He has worked in the hospitality industry for students have an opportunity to pursue World manages the portfolio of businesses 30 years, most recently as President of the career education in business, hospitality, and projects for the Dubai Government.
Kor Hotel Group in Los Angeles, where he culinary arts or technology.
led the Groups expansion of its luxury hotels South Beach won the tender on its and resorts.
Prior to that, he worked for 10 Honorary Doctorate from Oxford Brookes excellent design.
The project was designed years at the Kimpton Hotel and Restaurant University UK whose citation traced how by renowned architectural firm Foster & Group, where as Senior Vice President, he Mr Kwek, who joined the family business in Partners and is set to become a revolutionary oversaw the operations and profitability of the early 1960s, had gone on to establish New Eco-Quarter in Singapore.
Mr Kwek 37 Kimpton Group properties, while guiding an international reputation for his leadership is confident South Beach will help elevate the transition of new assets into stable of the Hong Leong Group, as well as being Singapores unique branding as a Global City operating businesses.
Earlier, he served as an active supporter of higher education in and attract more international investors.
Kimptons Vice President of Acquisitions and Singapore.
Property Transformation, contributing to The Hong Leong flagship of Mr Kwek is a numerous acquisitions throughout the US Mr Kwek also serves as a Member of the household name in the region.
His background also includes INSEAD East Asia Council.
France-based has been featured many times by US Forbes the management operations of luxury hotels INSEAD is one of the worlds leading and magazine as one of the richest men in and resorts including General Manager largest graduate business schools which Singapore and globally.
In 2007, Forbes of the Ritz Carlton Mauna Lani, Hawaii, brings together people, cultures and ideas picked him as Singapores 3rd richest man, where he was the recipient of both the from around the world.
with a fortune estimated at US$4.3 billion.
Five Diamond Hotel Award and Restaurant He is also placed at 195th position in the list Award.
He also managed the flagship Ritz of worlds top billionaires.
Carlton Buckhead in Atlanta: and managed resorts in Minnesota and Arizona.
He has a degree in Business Administration from the University of Denver.
44 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 CHRISTOPHER SNEATH, 74 # CHRISTOPHER KELJIK OBE, 59 # CHARLES KIRKWOOD, 72 # Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Christopher Keljik was appointed to the Charles Kirkwood was appointed to the Christopher Sneath joined Millennium & Board in May 2006.
After a long career with Board in May 2002.
He was formerly Copthorne Hotels plc in March 1999.
He Standard Chartered plc that commenced in Managing Director of Rosewood Hotels is a Chartered Accountant and, until his 1976, he retired from his position as Group and Resorts, Asia and an Industrial Partner retirement in 1994, he was a senior partner Executive Director of Standard Chartered to Ripplewood Japan.
He is currently the of KPMG.
He was a non-executive Director plc in May 2005.
During his career with President and Director of Shawnee Holding of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc until 2002.
Standard Chartered, he held a number Inc, a private hotel owning company and of senior positions in corporate finance, a Director of Pennsylvania General Energy.
KWEK LENG JOO, 54 treasury and general management in the He is a member of the Bar of New York, Non-Executive Director UK, USA and Asia.
His responsibilities Pennsylvania and the US Supreme Court.
Kwek Leng Joo joined Millennium & immediately prior to retirement included Copthorne Hotels plc at the flotation of the Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, the CONNAL RANKIN, 66 # Group.
He is the managing Director of City UK and the Americas.
He is a Chartered Independent Non-Executive Director Developments Limited.
An executive Director Accountant and currently holds nonConnal Rankin was appointed to the Board of Hong Leong Group Singapore, he also executive directorships at Foreign & in December 2007.
He has had an extensive holds directorships in most of the listed Colonial Investment Trust plc, Jardine Lloyd career at HSBC Group HSBC spanning companies within the Hong Leong Group, Thompson Group plc and Henderson TR 45 years until his retirement in December including City e-Solutions Limited and Hong Pacific Investment Trust plc.
He held a number of senior positions Leong Finance Limited.
The immediate including a Group General Manager of past president of the Singapore Chinese JOHN SCLATER CVO, 67 # HSBC in Hong Kong and Chief Executive Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr retired 31 December 2007 of HSBC Singapore for 5 years until 2000.
Kwek is also vice chairman of the Singapore Independent Non-Executive Director Between 2000 and 2005, Connal held the Business Federation and serves in many John Sclater joined Millennium & Copthorne senior position of Group General Manager public and civic institutions.
Hotels plc at the flotation of the Group.
of Human Resources based in London.
He He is currently chairman of Graphite is a Director of Neptune Orient Lines Ltd, KWEK LENG PECK, 51 Enterprise Trust PLC, Biotech Growth Trust a publicly quoted company listed on the Non-Executive Director PLC and Argent Group Europe Limited, and Singapore Stock Exchange.
Kwek Leng Peck joined Millennium & a Director of James Cropper PLC.
He was Member of the Remuneration Committee Copthorne Hotels plc at the flotation formerly chairman of Foreign & Colonial Member of the Audit Committee of the Group.
He serves as an executive Investment Trust PLC, The Equitable Life # Member of the Nominations Committee Director of the Hong Leong Group.
He Assurance Society, Hill Samuel Bank Limited, holds directorships on most of the listed The Union Discount Company of London companies within the Hong Leong Group, PLC, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd, Nordic including City Developments Limited, City Bank Limited and Berisford now Enodis plc.
e-Solutions Limited, Hong Leong Finance He was also formerly deputy chairman of Limited, Hong Leong Asia Limited and Tasek Grosvenor Group Holdings, a trustee of The Corporation Berhad.
Grosvenor Estate, a member of the Council of The Duchy of Lancaster, First Church THE VISCOUNT THURSO, 54 # Estates Commissioner and a member of The Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, Senior Archbishops Council.
In addition, he was a Independent Director and Chairman of Director of Wates Group Limited and other the Remuneration Committee companies.
The Viscount Thurso was appointed to the Board in May 2002.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Hospitality.
He was previously founder general manager of Cliveden and has held executive positions as chief executive of Granfel Holdings Limited and chief executive of Fitness & Leisure Holdings Limited.
He was also non-executive chairman of Walker Greenbank plc until 2002.
Prior to this he was non-executive Director of Savoy Group plc and Royal Olympic Cruiselines.
He is currently Member of Parliament for Caithness, Sutherland and Easter Ross.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 45
