A Treasure of Everlasting Memories Across the world, Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc is long associated with the finest in hospitality standards.
With 112 hotels in 18 countries, we promise you a haven of sophistication and elegance wherever you are.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 3 Elegant Surroundings 4 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Millennium Broadway Hotel New York UNITED STATES Stylishly furnished, the Millennium Broadway Hotel New York sets the scene for luxurious accommodation, focused meetings and dramatic events.
Built in 1903, the Hudson Theatre offers a newly-renovated meeting space and is the only hotel in New York with an on-site meeting facility approved by the International Association of Conference Centers IACC.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 5 Opposite: Millennium Hongqiao From Grand Millennium Kuala Lumpur to Copthorne Hotel at Chelsea Football Club, we are Hotel Shanghai the epitome of inimitable style.
In our varied and CHINA beautiful surroundings, you will be enthralled with Millennium Hongqiao, an impressive five-star the unparalleled standards of splendour.
international hotel, is centrally located in the Hongqiao district within close proximity to Shanghai Mart and only 6 km from the domestic airport.
This contemporary 369 room-and-suite hotel provides ideal facilities for discerning business and leisure seekers.
An oasis of calm within the bustling city of Shanghai, the hotel is a picture of serenity and sophistication.
6 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Finest Standards 8 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Copthorne Hotel Christchurch Durham Street NEW ZEALAND A leading four-star business class hotel, Copthorne Hotel Christchurch Durham Street is strategically located in the heart of Christchurch.
Within close proximity to the upmarket Christchurch Casino, Convention Centre and boutiques, the hotel is only a few minutes walk to the citys major attractions.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 9 Opposite: Millennium Hotel Catering to your business and leisure needs, we offer outstanding trade facilities and & Resort Stuttgart distinguished leisure preferences worldwide, GERMANY be it the Grand Millennium Sukhumvit Ballroom, Grand Millennium Kuala Lumpur or MU Lounge This modern hotel provides the ideal in Millennium Hotel London Knightsbridge.
combination of an international hotel with an entertainment complex that includes a casino, a six-screen movie theatre and a unique health and vitality centre.
Millennium Hotel & Resort Stuttgart also offers guests a chance to wine and dine in 19 themed restaurants and bars, offering dining options from Italian specialties to home-made beer.
10 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Tranquil Rejuvenation 12 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Copthorne Hotel & Resort Queenstown Lakefront NEW ZEALAND Copthorne Hotel & Resort Queenstown Lakefront boasts superior facilities, personalised service and stunning scenery of New Zealands southern alpine region.
Surrounded by the countrys finest ski slopes, the hotel is conveniently located within a 3-minute walk from central Queenstown.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 13 Opposite: Millennium Live the high life of luxury amidst the soulful landscape of our extensive relaxation facilities UN Plaza Hotel as you pamper yourself with a rejuvenating spa NEW YORK treatment or a calming session of yoga.
Cradled in the heart of New York City, the Millennium UN Plaza Hotel welcomes business travellers, foreign dignitaries and sightseers from around the world.
Here, guests are able to experience spectacular views of the New York City skyline and enjoy the advantages of its prime location on the fashionable East Side of midtown Manhattan.
14 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007
