Business Overview The Groups principal operations are providing hotel rooms to guests The Group operates under four brands: Grand Millennium, in the following five regions: The Americas, Europe, Middle East, Millennium, Copthorne and Kingsgate.
The Grand Millennium Asia and Australasia.
brand was launched during 2007 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and Bangkok, Thailand.
The Kingsgate brand is mainly used in New The Group owns, operates, manages and franchises hotels with Zealand.
significant operations in London, New York and Singapore.
In addition, the Groups property expertise allows it to manage its real estate assets actively and to unlock long term value to ensure superior value creation over time.
Share Share of Group of Headline Revenue Operating 2 m Profit m Total Total New York New York Regional U. S. Regional U. S. London London Rest of Europe Rest of Europe Asia Asia Australasia Australasia Average Occupancy Room Rate RevPAR 3 3 % 1 UK GAAP not restated under IFRS 2 Headline operating profit from operations excluding central costs and, for 2007, a 9.6m write-down of the Sunnyvale development property in Regional US and, for 2003, 8.1m of pre-opening costs of the Millenium Hilton 3 Reported currency Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 1 [TEMPLATE : The dummy text on this page is used for layout purposes only. ]
A Treasure of Everlasting Memories Across the world, Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc is long associated with the finest in hospitality standards.
With 112 hotels in 18 countries, we promise you a haven of sophistication and elegance wherever you are.
Contents Report of the Auditor 64 Performance Highlights Inside front cover Consolidated Income Statement 65 Business Overview 1 Consolidated Statement of Recognised A Treasure of Everlasting Memories 3 Income and Expense 66 Welcome to a World of Hospitality 16 Consolidated Balance Sheet 67 Chairmans Statement 18 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 69 Business Review 21 Accounting Policies 71 Major Properties 37 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Board of Directors 44 Statements 78 Directors Report 46 Company Balance Sheet 121 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Notes to the Company Financial Statements 122 respect of the Directors Report and the Key Operating Statistics 126 Financial Statements 48 Group Financial Record 127 Corporate Governance 49 Notice of Annual General Meeting 129 Corporate Social Responsibility 53 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Worldwide 133 Directors Remuneration Report 55 Shareholder Information 63 On the cover: The exquisitely designed lobby of Grand Millennium Sukhumvit Bangkok.
Opened in 2007, the five-star hotel with 325 rooms and suites, is Millennium & Copthorne Hotels flagship property in Thailand.
Opposite: During the year the Group launched the Grand Millennium brand.
The inaugural hotel for this brand was the Groups former hotel in Kuala Lumpur which, prior to launch underwent major refurbishment in its public areas and reopened as the Grand Millennium Kuala Lumpur in September.
2 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007
