Directors Report SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The Directors present their report for the financial year ended As at 19 February 2008, the Company had received details of the 31 December 2007. following notifiable interest in its issued share capital: ACTIVITIES OF THE GROUP % of The principal activity of the Group is ownership and management of Number of Issued share hotels around the world.
shares Capital City Developments Limited 157,577,311 53.17 BUSINESS REVIEW Prudential plc 25,030,724 8.45 The Business Review incorporates sections covering financial, Aberdeen Asset operating, risk factors and Non-GAAP information for the year Management plc 15,093,433 5.09 ended 31 December 2007 and is set out on pages 21 to 36.
Schroders plc 15,009,791 5.06 These sections provide information about the Groups strategy, its businesses, their financial performance during the year, the principal the interests of Prudential plc include the notifiable interest of the risks and uncertainties facing the Group and its likely development.
following companies: RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS M&G Group Limited 25,030,724 8.45% The profit on ordinary activities before taxation was 157.4m M&G Limited 25,030,724 8.45% 2006: 130.2m.
An interim dividend of 2.08p per share was M&G Investment paid on 10 October 2007.
The Directors are recommending a final Management Limited 25,002,456 8.44% dividend of 10.42p per share 2006: final dividend of 6.42p plus The Prudential Assurance a special dividend of 4.00p which will, if approved at the annual Company Limited 23,916,362 8.07% general meeting, be paid on 16 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 25 March 2008.
Total dividends the interests of Schroders plc include the notifiable interest of the relating to the year are expected to amount to 37.1m.
The following company: Company will be offering a scrip dividend alternative in respect of the final dividend.
Schroder Investment Management Limited 14,944,166 5.04% EMPLOYEES During the year the average number of people employed by the DIRECTORS Group was 12,957 2006: 12,862.
Biographical details of Directors are shown on pages 44 and 45.
Details of the share interests of Directors are shown on page 62.
Further information on the Groups employment practices, including No changes to these interests occurred between the year end and its obligations under equal opportunities, employee involvement the date of this report.
and communications and staff training and development is contained within the Corporate Social Responsibility statement on During the year, the Company has maintained cover for its Directors pages 53 and 54. and Officers and those of its subsidiary companies under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by Section 233 SHARE CAPITAL of the Companies Act 2006.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT during the year, are shown in note 26 to the financial statements.
The Group has adopted and operates business integrity policies in its regions, which are consistent with the standards of behaviour Details of shares issued pursuant to the Groups share based and ethics which the Group upholds and requires all employees to incentive schemes are shown in the notes to the accounts on pages act honestly, with integrity, objectivity, professional competence and 109 to 112. due care.
46 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Details of the Groups policy on supplier payment terms and on The annual general meeting will be held at 10:00am on Wednesday, charitable and political donations are set out in the Corporate Social 7 May 2008 at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair.
The notice to Responsibility statement on pages 53 and 54. shareholders can be found at the back of this Annual Report.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT At the annual general meeting resolutions will be proposed as An indication of the Groups financial risk management objectives Special Business to approve the Directors Remuneration Report, in respect of the use of financial instruments and its exposures to to renew Directors authority to issue scrip dividends, to renew the credit risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk is set out in the Directors authority to allot shares, to authorise the purchase of Business Review on pages 28 and 35, and in note 18 to the financial the Companys shares in the market, to renew the authority given statements.
in regard to pre-emption rights under the terms of a Co-operation Agreement dated 18 April 1996 with City Developments Limited, GOING CONCERN to renew the authority to fund donations and or incur expenditure After having made appropriate enquiries, the Directors are satisfied under the terms of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for Act 2000 where it is in shareholders interests to do so.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the accounts.
Shareholders will be asked to vote on the adoption of new Articles of Association.
Details of the proposed changes to the Companys AUDITOR Article of Association are set out in a separate shareholders circular.
In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 which is applicable from 6 April By order of the Board 2008, a resolution regarding the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there Adrian Bushnell is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is COMPANY SECRETARY unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought 19 February 2008 to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 47 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Directors Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accordance that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial with applicable law and regulations.
position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial and detect fraud and other irregularities.
statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable law UK responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in the corporate and financial information included on the Companys relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
48 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007
