Operational review Treasury & Summary Capital Markets Strong growth in new geographies and segments New functionality increasing value for customers Product development accelerating technology upgrade Ed Ho Executive Vice President and General Manager, Treasury & Capital Markets We are enhancing the performance and Delivery Our business reach of our solutions 12 years We create comprehensive, integrated Misys Loan IQ is the market leader in Expand distribution to solutions that help our customers to commercial lending.
We have improved cover more opportunities manage their capital market activities the systems functionality through direct across all asset classes.
We are a global Enter new segments development and the integration of leader in this market.
e. g. buy side acquired technology, and are migrating this solution to a Java platform, which is Our customers 23 years nearing completion.
We are also We serve banks, financial institutions Boost services capability addressing growing demand from buy and corporate treasury departments.
and capacity side customers, and we will launch the We have an established installed base Increase usage of first double-byte version for Asian in Europe and North America, a strong partnerships markets later in this financial year.
presence in many parts of Asia and a growing footprint across China, India, Misys Summit FT is a market leading, the Middle East and Africa.
With our 35 years advanced trading and risk management customers success dependent on Extend into higher value solution.
We shipped functionally rich speed to market or volume growth, service offerings versions of 5.1 and 5.2 in 2007, including our focus is on developing fast, agile Extend product portfolio advanced credit derivatives on our awardsolutions that are innovative, scalable coverage and functionality winning MUST platform.
investing in a technology upgrade of Summit FT to a Java service-oriented Priorities and actions architecture, providing customers with Did you know even greater flexibility and speed of We are expanding distribution to We serve Treasury & Capital execution.
capture market share Markets customers in more We now offer customers everything than 85 countries Our award winning new, SOA treasury from simple licensing relationships to The Top 5 banks in China all solution, Misys Opics Plus, has seen complete solutions providing integrated use Misys solutions strong adoption by existing clients and applications, technologies, processes and 13 of the top 20 Syndicated new clients.
We have shipped versions services.
We develop new customer Loan Bookrunners use Loan 1.5 and 1.6 and advanced the systems relationships with partners and through 1 IQ, accounting for over 3 of risk management and volume-processing direct sales, and are currently building the worlds syndicated loans capabilities, along with other functional up our direct sales network.
We are Source: Thomson Financial improvements, to enable our customers augmenting our direct sales efforts with to trade and process more effectively.
specialist partners in local markets.
6 of the top 10 US Lead We have very strong partners in certain Arrangers use Loan IQ areas of the world and we are creating Source: Reuters new partner relationships, especially 7 of the top 10 US Loan in the developing markets.
Trading Desks use Loan IQ Source: Loan Market Week 16 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing We now offer customers everything from simple licensing relationships to complete solutions providing integrated applications, technologies, processes and services.
We are building our services CASE STUDY capability rapidly HDFC Bank, India At year-end we employed 100 Recently named as Best Bank in India by Euromoney, HDFC Bank is the first consultants: we are increasing that Indian financial institution to select Misys Summit FT.
The bank sought a capacity significantly and will offer more sophisticated solution that could work across its whole business.
We chose services to our customers.
Our services Misys Summit for its strong front-to-back real-time features, from deal teams are helping customers achieve capture, pricing, analytics and hedging through to risk management and STP, better results and faster execution says Mr Sudhir Joshi, Treasurer, HDFC Bank, and we believe that it will have through enhanced training and an immediate positive impact in our day-to-day operations.
It will also ensure development, optimisation, system we achieve our goal not just in interest rate and currency derivatives, but in assessments and integration.
other areas of the treasury and capital markets business in the future.
We are establishing innovative development processes Development will continue in New York Awards for Treasury & Capital Markets but we are rapidly increasing capacity and capability in other centres including Best Sell-Side Technology, The Banker Misys Summit FT June 2007 our own sites in Bangalore, India, and Innovative product of the year, Structured Products Magazine Misys Summit Bucharest, Romania to ensure we MUST November 2006 provide customers with fast, marketTop position, Structured products category, Risk Magazines annual vendor leading solutions at competitive cost.
technology survey Misys Summit MUST November 2006 We are also focusing development around Top position, Trading System for IR Derivatives category, Risk Magazines product interoperability and consistency, annual vendor technology survey Misys Summit November 2006 so our new solutions work together Winner, Windows in Financial Services Innovator Award Misys Opics Plus seamlessly and we avoid duplicating October 2006 effort in the development process.
Market Capital markets IT spend % growth US$bn 2006 200611 TIER 1 FIRMS 43.0 7 TIER 2 FIRMS 43.9 5 TIER 3 FIRMS 8.6 3 Source: IDC, Financial Insights Misys plc Annual Report 2007 17 Operational review
