Senior management team A management team focused on delivering value to shareholders, customers and employees 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 38 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing Why I joined Misys 1 Ed Ho 2 Eileen McPartland 3 Guy Warren Executive Vice President and General Executive Vice President Executive Vice President and General Manager Treasury & Capital Markets Global Sales and Services Manager Core Banking The business is on a much stronger I see enormous opportunities to build on We have an extraordinary installed footing now we have a powerful the considerable strengths of the existing base around the world, so if we can customer focus, a very strong businesses especially the established make the quality of our innovation management team in place and were installed base of customers and to add and delivery truly world class we can winning more.
Im particularly excited a fast-growing services organisation establish a strong leadership position.
by the new spirit of openness and thats profitable in its own right.
The opportunity is there, its now all collaboration we can achieve so Customers are asking us for more, so the about delivery, delivery, delivery.
much more for customers working challenge is around rapidly developing with great partners.
and launching new services that really add value.
4 Vern Davenport 5 Bob Barthelmes 6 Paul Musselman Executive Vice President and General Executive Vice President and Executive Vice President Manager Healthcare General Manager Open Source Strategy and Corporate Development There is a very positive new attitude to Whats happening with open source This is a great opportunity to be part of a openness and collaboration here thats and other innovations in our space is senior management team with the skills, absolutely in tune with whats happening inspiring.
Whats happening within Misys experience and clarity needed to get this in our markets.
We have great strengths, this strong focus on customers and business moving in the right direction: but working with the right partners results and our large installed base is a team that is incredibly serious about means we can deliver much greater inspiring also.
Put the two together and delivering the right results: and a team value.
For me, the opportunities in the develop truly cutting edge solutions thats great at inspiring each other to connecting healthcare communities capable of helping customers increase achieve more.
performance, quality and profitability thats a fantastic brief.
7 Dan Fitz 8 Peter McCullagh 9 Cory Eaves Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President General Counsel and Company Secretary Chief Marketing Officer Chief Technology Officer and Chief Information Officer The new direction is an exciting This is a rare chance for a fresh challenge for me and the legal team.
management team to come in and turn Misys has some exceptional solutions in With the Company developing new ways potential into reality.
The key is that the development right now cutting edge of working with customers, partners transformation is focused on doing technical innovations but what really and suppliers, our job is to help ensure everything necessary to deliver value for excites me are the potential benefits for Misys relationships are on a sound customers, and were already seeing a organisations in healthcare and financial footing.
powerful customer instinct developing services.
This is a chance to focus within the Company at all levels.
innovation on delivering really powerful, tangible results for our customers and their customers.
10 Susan Cottam 11 Bruce King 12 Jim Malone Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Corporate Communications Human Resources Chief Financial Officer The turnaround provides me with the Quite simply the terrific combination This is an excellent time to get involved essential elements needed for powerful of challenge and opportunity ahead.
at Misys great customers, good people, communications inside and outside We need to attract, retain and develop enormous potential.
The turnaround has the Company.
A very clear purpose the best people in our industry.
And we started but this is just the beginning and for the organisation.
Transparency and need to transform our systems and there are plenty of challenges ahead, accountability for results.
Facts and processes while driving forward our which I relish.
I think the alignment of meaningful metrics that enable people powerful new culture of accountability, the interests of shareholders, customers, to judge our progress.
And many new results and delivering value for employees and the leadership team will examples showing how Misys is customers.
If we achieve all this Misys be an incredibly dynamic force.
delivering greater value for customers.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 39 Senior management team
