Directors report The purpose of the Annual Report is to share interests can be found in the Dividends provide information to the members of Directors remuneration report on pages The Directors recommend a final dividend the Company.
The Annual Report 49 to 58. of 4.71p per ordinary share.
This, together contains certain forward-looking with the interim dividend of 2.82p per share statements with respect to the The Company has granted indemnities to paid on 10 April 2007, makes a total dividend operations, performance and financial its Directors in their capacity as Directors of 7.53p per share for the year 2006: 7.18p.
By their nature, of the Company and in their capacity as these statements involve uncertainty directors of the subsidiaries of the The proposed final dividend, if approved since future events and circumstances Company.
The Company has also granted at the Annual General Meeting on can cause results and developments to indemnities to some of the directors of its 19 September 2007 AGM, will be paid differ from those anticipated.
Such indemnities remain in on 24 September 2007 to shareholders this Annual Report should be construed force and are qualifying 3rd party appearing on the register at the close of as a profit forecast.
indemnity provisions for the purposes of business on 3 August 2007. s. 309B Companies Act 1985.
For some The Directors of Misys plc submit years the Company has purchased Directors their report and the audited financial insurance to cover its Directors and Details of the current Directors of the statements for the year ended officers against their costs in defending Company are given on page 37.
31 May 2007. themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in The following new Directors were Principal activities respect of damages resulting from the appointed during the year: Mike Lawrie The Groups principal activities are the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
as Chief Executive on 1 November 2006 development, management and licensing Neither the insurance nor the indemnity and Jeff Ubben as a non-executive of a variety of software products and provide cover where the Director has Director on 16 January 2007.
The following solutions to customers in the financial acted fraudulently or deceitfully.
Directors ceased to serve on the Board services and healthcare industries.
during the year: Kevin Lomax stepped With the exception of service contracts down as Chief Executive on 2 October A review of the activities of the Group, its and the indemnities referred to above, 2006: Tony Alexander retired as a nonfinancial performance and its likely future during the year under review and up to executive Director at the close of the 2006 business developments is provided in the date of this report, no Director has AGM on 4 October 2006: George Chuck the Chairmans statement, the Chief had any interest in any material contract Farr, a non-executive Director, died on Executives review, and the review of the with the Company.
5 November 2006: and, both Jasper businesses on pages 2 to 23 and the McMahon and Tom Skelton stepped Financial review on pages 28 to 35 of Research and development down as Directors on 18 January 2007. this Annual Report.
In the markets in which the Group operates, effective R&D is vital to The following changes to the Board took Acquisitions and disposals during the maintaining competitive advantage and place after the financial year end: Jim period are disclosed in note 12 on securing future income streams.
The Malone, Chief Financial Officer, was page 78. extent of the Groups commitment to appointed a Director on 19 June 2007 and R&D is detailed in the Operational review Howard Evans stepped down as Finance Business review on pages 16 to 23.
Effective use of Director on 29 June 2007.
Jrgen Zech A review of the development and products generated through R&D is also will stand down as a non-executive performance of the business of the vital.
The Group has devoted considerable Director with effect from the close of Group, including the financial additional effort to plan and manage its the AGM on 19 September 2007. performance during the year, key solutions to ensure that they deliver performance indicators and a description results and add value to customers.
As it is the first AGM since their of the principal risks and uncertainties appointments, Mike Lawrie, Jim Malone facing the Group, are set out in the People and corporate responsibility and Jeff Ubben will retire and offer Financial review section of this Annual Information on employee engagement, themselves for election at the AGM.
Report on pages 28 to 35, which is equal opportunities including policies There are no other Directors retiring and incorporated in this report by reference.
relating to disabled persons, training offering themselves for re-election at the and ethical and environmental matters AGM in accordance with the Articles of Events after the balance sheet date can be found in the section on People Association.
Mike Lawrie, Jim Malone Details of significant events subsequent and corporate responsibility on pages and Jeff Ubben, if elected, will serve the to 31 May are set out in the Chairmans 24 to 27. customary three-year term.
statement and in note 36 on page 92.
Charitable donations Biographical details of all Directors, Financial instruments The Groups commitment to community including those being proposed for Information on financial instruments is involvement and charitable donations is election are given on page 37. disclosed in notes 24 and 25 on pages described in the People and corporate 83 to 85. responsibility section on pages 26 and 27.
Details of executive Directors service In line with its policy, the Group made no agreements, non-executive Directors political donations in the year under letters of appointment, emoluments and review 2006: nil.
40 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing Companys Memorandum of Association Creditor payment policy cash up to prescribed limits.
The Articles, for It is the Companys policy to agree details are given in the Notice of AGM.
instance, contain specific provisions and terms and conditions for its business restrictions regarding the Companys transactions with its suppliers.
The Substantial shareholdings power to borrow money.
Powers relating Company seeks to abide by the payment As at 23 July 2007, the voting interests to the issuing and buying back of shares terms agreed with suppliers whenever it shown below in the ordinary share capital are also included in the Articles and such is satisfied that the supplier has abided of the Company disclosable under the authorities are renewed by shareholders by its contractual obligations.
The trade Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure each year at the AGM.
A copy of the creditors of the Group at 31 May 2007 and Transparency Rules which replaced Articles are available to view on the represent 31 days 2006: 32 days and of Part VI of the Companies Act 1985, with effect from 20 January 2007, had been Companys website.
the Company represent 46 days 2006: 49 notified to the Directors.
days as a proportion of the total amount There are a number of agreements invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Takeovers directive that take effect, alter or terminate upon Discontinued operations are excluded Pursuant to s992 of the Companies a change of control of the Company from both the Group current year and Act 2006, which implements the EU following a takeover bid, such as comparative figures.
Takeovers Directive, the Company is commercial contracts, bank loan required to disclose certain additional agreements, property lease Share capital information.
Such disclosures, which arrangements, D irectors service The share capital of the Company are not covered elsewhere in this Annual agreements and employees share comprises ordinary shares of 1p each: Report, include the following: plans.
None of these are deemed to be each share carries the right to one vote significant in terms of their potential at general meetings of the Company.
The The Companys Articles of Association impact on the business of the Group as a authorised and issued share capital of the Articles give a power to the Board whole.
In addition, there exist agreements the Company, together with details of to appoint directors, but also require between the Company and its Directors the movements in the Companys issued Directors to retire and submit themselves and certain senior employees which share capital during the year, are shown for election at the first Annual General provide for compensation for loss of office in note 33 on page 90.
Meeting following their appointment and or employment due to a takeover bid.
At the 2006 AGM shareholders authorised for re-election once they have held office Copies of executive Directors service the Directors to make market purchases for more than 30 months thereafter.
The contracts are available for inspection to of the Companys ordinary shares up to a Articles themselves may be amended by shareholders at the Companys registered maximum nominal value of 0.5m, which special resolution of the shareholders.
represented approximately 10% of issued share capital, and to either cancel the The Board of Directors is responsible for Annual General Meeting shares or hold the shares as Treasury the management of the business of the The 2007 AGM will take place at 11.30am shares which may then be cancelled, sold Company and may exercise all the on Wednesday, 19 September 2007 at for cash or transferred for the purposes powers of the Company subject to the The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn of the Companys employees share provisions of relevant statutes, the Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
plans, depending on the best interests Substantial shareholdings of the Companys shareholders at the time.
This authority has not been used % issued No.
of Nature to make market purchases of the share capital ordinary shares of holding Companys shares either during the Legal & General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 3.41% 17,142,072 Direct 2007 financial year or subsequently and accordingly the authority to purchase Deutsche Bank AG and its subsidiary companies 4.00% 20,120,385 Direct up to a total of 49,982,485 of its own Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 5.14% 25,863,924 Indirect Companys shares remains in place.
It is Schroders plc on behalf of Schroder Investment proposed that the authority be renewed Management Ltd, Schroder Investment at the forthcoming AGM.
Management North America Ltd and Schroder & Co Ltd 5.33% 26,708,863 Indirect During the year 3,486,796 shares were transferred out of Treasury to meet the Aviva plc and its subsidiary companies 6.12% 30,759,067 Direct Companys obligations under its and employees share plans and no shares Indirect were cancelled out of Treasury.
At close ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. of business on 20 July 2007, Misys plc had and VA Partners, LLC 7.40% 38,842,574 Direct 551,727,036 ordinary shares in issue, of which 48,686,266 were held in Treasury.
Jeffrey W Ubben, ValueAct Capital Management LLC and ValueAct Capital i Also included in the special business of Management L. P. 9.50% 47,687,074 Indirect the 2007 AGM are proposals to renew the i Held indirectly by the general partner of each fund and the managing members.
This notification has been reported on an Directors authority to allot shares for aggregated basis and includes the 7.4% holding of ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. and VA Partners, LLC shown above.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 41 Directors report Directors report A separate circular sent to shareholders with this Report contains the Notice of AGM and explains the business to be considered at the meeting.
A copy of the Notice will be published on the Companys website www.
Electronic communications The Directors are keen to improve and extend the methods by which the Company communicates with its shareholders and, in particular, to move towards an increase in electronic communications.
Accordingly, pursuant to the new provisions of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders will be asked at the forthcoming AGM to approve a resolution which will allow the Company to send any document or information to shareholders electronically and to provide access to such via the Companys website.
Going concern After making due enquiries, embracing the normal forecasting process, the Directors consider that the Group and the Company has adequate resources and committed borrowing facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Auditors Each of the Companys Directors in office as at the date of this report confirms that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information, that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report, of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and that he has taken all steps which he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
 LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them and authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
By Order of the Board Dan Fitz General Counsel and Company Secretary 24 July 2007 42 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing
