Operational review Summary Global Services High growth opportunities identified Five service offerings launched to meet demand Benefits will include cost efficiencies for Misys Eileen McPartland Executive Vice President, Global Services Given the strong demand for training Delivery Our business in banking and healthcare, our aspiration 12 years We are building a services business is to generate training fee income Launch new service capable of growing profitably and creating significantly higher than the IT industry offerings growth opportunities for the entire Misys average of 6%.
Our strengths include our large Build capabilities hire, installed base in banking and healthcare, retool and acquire We now provide new deep domain expertise and substantial Build common customeroptimisation services development and support resources.
facing processes, channels We are helping new and existing and partners customers to optimise the technical, Our customers financial and commercial effectiveness Customers are asking us to provide a 23 years of the Misys solutions they employ using broader range of services and support Grow 35% proven business case processes.
that enables them to get results.
Our Global Services business will deliver what Continue innovation along We now provide global is required direct or with best practice the value chain integration systems partners.
We will also provide services We are working to make it easier for and support to employees and partners, 35 years customers to manage and integrate their helping them to enhance the value they Grow 58% software by enhancing the interoperability deliver to customers.
Continue innovation along of our solutions.
As first steps, we the value chain are bundling solutions such as Misys Priorities and actions Message Manager and creating a central We have listened to what our customers repository that enables easier change say and have identified, developed and management of very complex and launched five key offerings that Did you know integration environments.
will address their needs and help Most Misys banking them maximise their investment in customers use just 30% We now provide premium our solutions.
of a products functionality: support packages training and optimisation Our tiered services provide a range of We have launched Misys Academy support can increase that personalised and customised support Misys Academy is a new profit-focused to nearer 100% services for customers, providing them services organisation within Misys.
This will create a new Academy co-ordinates all the training source of revenue from premium pricing.
and development solutions we provide to our customers, partners and employees.
We now provide an upgrade Customers now have access to best solution centre practice standardised or customised We are combining our onshore and training that enables their employees to offshore resources to ensure we maximise the benefits of Misys solutions.
The Academy also manages a multi-level complete upgrades for our customers certification programme for providers and faster, at reduced cost and with more users of Misys solutions, and we intend to predictable results.
establish this programme as an industry benchmark for validating competence We are building the capacity needed and quality.
to support customers To support these new service offerings we are building capacity.
Over the next 12 months we will increase our billable consultants and reduce non-billable 18 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing We have listened to what our customers say and have identified, developed and launched five key offerings that will address their needs and help them maximise their investment in our solutions.
We MISYS CUSTOMER SUCCESS ROADMAP will partner with or acquire companies wherever we need to strengthen our service offering.
And we will make use Understand Define Design Implement Optimise of low-cost centres to ensure we deliver value to customers.
We are finding efficiencies within Misys During the development of the new strategy we identified significant potential People cost savings within the Company.
The Global Services business is responsible Process for delivering these efficiencies and helping to enhance the way Misys Technology operates.
We are now implementing common systems and processes across areas such as metrics: payCapabilities and Governance for-performance: business systems, including the adoption of sales force automation and performance THE MISYS CUSTOMER SUCCESS ROADMAP TRANSFORMS OUR KNOWLEDGE management systems: and portfolio, AND EXPERIENCE INTO A CLEAR PROCESS THAT HELPS CUSTOMERS MAXIMISE programme and project management.
THE EFFECTIVENESS AND EFFICIENCY OF TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENTS.
Market How Misys Academy will deliver training and education Market size 20062010 CAGR Temporary training centres set up US$bn % near customer locations SYSTEMS INTEGRATION 108 67 TRANSACTION SERVICES 423 910 Training centres located in key MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT 141 45 Misys offices APPLICATION SOFTWARE 7 102 Rapid response training using the web and video conferencing Source: IDC, Gartner Web-enabled e-learning Remote learning using digital technologies and print Our key criteria for a new partnership Is the partner best in class?
Will both parties be motivated for each others success?
Are these the right people to represent our brand?
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 19 Operational review
