Operational review Summary Healthcare Focus on ambulatory market and connecting communities Key investment in Misys electronic medical record EMR and Misys Connect Vern Davenport Software as a Service expands addressable market Executive Vice President and General Manager, Healthcare Software as a Service.
This approach Delivery Our business can deliver substantial cost and 12 years We are one of the leading providers of efficiency benefits for customers and Focus on ambulatory and healthcare software solutions in the US.
we are building-up this functionality connected community We have exceptional experience and across our portfolio.
Given the very wide expertise in supporting and connecting Revitalise product line penetration of Internet access, Software physicians offices and connecting venues deliver new EMR and ASP as a Service enables us to provide across the healthcare community.
offering for physicians solutions to all venues of care almost regardless of which technologies they Our customers 23 years use, significantly increasing our We serve a range of practices, from oneExpand product footprint addressable market.
physician offices to medical centres with around the core ambulatory hundreds of physicians.
Customers products We are adding value to solutions require innovative and robust solutions Our new emphasis is on providing that enable them to enhance clinical 35 years solutions rather than simply supplying capability, efficiency and profitability.
Create connectivity solutions products and that means searching across the healthcare constantly for ways to add functionality Priorities and actions environment and increase the value we deliver.
We Our focus is on meeting customer are integrating our Payerpath software needs in the ambulatory market into Misys Practice Management, for services delivered outside the hospital example, so physicians get the benefits Did you know... or in outpatient departments and of this sophisticated web-based We serve more than 110,000 connecting all venues within a healthcare transactions service.
We are also physicians in 18,000 practice community.
Our priority is to optimise responding to strong demand for locations and differentiate the solutions we training and systems optimisation, provide in these core markets, ensuring Our physician practice helping customers to get the most from we deliver the greatest possible value solutions process around their investment in our solutions through to customers.
480 million transactions the support of our services team.
a year We are taking EMR to the next level 2005 total US healthcare We are enhancing our solutions for customers spending is about US$1.9 through partnering We have more than 350 active trillion 16% of total US There are enormous opportunities competitors so there are excellent gross domestic product here and we already have successful opportunities to grow market share 2005 total spending on IT relationships on which to build.
Our if we can deliver market-leading in US healthcare is about partnership with Instant DX has created solutions.
Version 8.0 of Misys EMR US$50 billion 2.5% of total a best-in-class e-prescriptions solution, is well established, so we are now healthcare expenditure for example, while our partnership with enhancing functionality and will roll out Philips integrates telemonitoring devices a solution in 2008 able to deliver even greater value to customers.
in the Misys Homecare solution, enabling homecare agencies to increase efficiency We are delivering the benefits of and improve patient safety and oversight.
Software as a Service Many customers now prefer us to host a solution and enable their users to access services via the web what we term 22 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing Our focus is on meeting customer needs in the ambulatory market and connecting all venues within a healthcare community.
Our priority is to deliver the greatest possible value to customers.
We are connecting the communities CASE STUDY Making medical records more visible Silver Cross Hospital, Joliet, Illinois enables customers to provide better care at lower cost.
Misys Connect is used by This 300-bed hospital is driving forward EMR and connectivity by partnering many different venues of care and this with Misys to offer physicians an integrated EMR and practice management together with our ground-breaking work solution.
The hospital will allow physicians systems to communicate with the through the Center for Community hospitals community solution, making patient data sharing widespread.
In turn, Health Leadership positions us at Misys Connect will enable practices to share data.
As a result all venues the heart of this fast-growing market.
involved should be able to provide faster, more accurate patient care.
This year we secured a number of new Our physicians selected Misys as the best technology for their needs, says connecting deals and we are now Matthew Ebaugh, vice president of information technology and chief information extending the scale and reach of officer of Silver Cross Hospital.
As part of the Health e-Way, Misys solutions our solutions.
will enable Silver Cross physicians to make more clinically-informed decisions in routine and emergency situations and provide better patient care and an overall higher quality of service to the community.
Awards for Healthcare Five-Star rating in electronic health record EHR and electronic medical record EMR applications, from AC Group June 2006 The Center for Community Misys EMR Version 8.0 certified and confirmed as meeting CCHIT ambulatory Health Leadership electronic health record criteria, Certification Commission for Healthcare Sponsored by Misys, the Center is Information Technology July 2006 establishing the very first fully connected Product Line Strategy Leadership Award, Frost & Sullivan Misys CPR Suite health communities in the US through of Products November 2006 grants of Misys solutions plus hardware Misys wins information management Most Distinguished Achievement award, and support from industry partners such from IBM December 2006 as Intel.
Launched in 2006, the Center 2007 Standalone E-Prescribing Systems TEPR Award, Towards the Electronic has received 90 applications and in Patient Record Awards Misys eScript May 2007 January 2007 selected Greater New Haven, Connecticut, for a grant valued Market at US$3m.
Over the next 12 months 30 or more physicians practices will Market size Growth rate inter-connect via Saint Raphael, a US$bn 2006 % 20042009 large teaching hospital, and the interoperability of our solutions will PHYSICIANS 5.5 14 enable more venues to connect even HOMECARE 0.6 15 if they are not Misys users.
Main growth in EMR 31% We expect benefits to include better availability and quality of clinical data for customers and reduced hospital waiting times for patients.
We will make a second grant in 2007.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 23 Operational review
