Chief Executives review Transforming Misys Mike Lawrie Mike Lawrie Chief Executive Misys is changing.
Our customers have told us what they require.
We have developed a new strategy focused on meeting their needs.
And we are now beginning to execute that strategy with decisive actions designed to deliver value to shareholders, customers and employees alike.
Our vision is to be the best application software and services company delivering results for the most important industries in the world.
In this review I talk about the steps we are taking to make our vision a reality over the next three to five years.
4 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing We are repositioning our portfolio and structuring the business to better meet customers needs, ensuring we address the high growth areas within healthcare and financial services.
I joined Misys as Chief Executive on To help us achieve our objectives we have 1 November 2006.
From the start the made fundamental changes to the way scale of the opportunity here was clear Misys operates.
This business has the potential to become a true leader in its markets First, we changed the focus of the a global player with the solutions and business from simply supplying products experience required to deliver exceptional to providing complete integrated value for customers, year after year.
customer solutions a profound shift in thinking and approach.
The rationale is This is a substantial ambition that will simple: our customers are asking us to require a great deal of commitment from deliver an integrated set of software everyone within Misys.
We need to get applications, technologies, processes fighting fit and start winning more in our and services capable of helping them markets.
We have begun from a strong reduce cost, improve quality and address position, with great assets in our people, new opportunities.
They need access to products and installed customer base, solutions that can drive performance and and a strong mandate for change from create value: our goal is to establish a the Board.
position for Misys as a trusted partner that enables customers to deliver results.
New strategy, key actions My first key action after joining was to To support this solution orientation write to every customer to let them know we are rebalancing our portfolio and that I was going to focus the entire structuring the business to better meet Company around adding value for them.
customers needs, ensuring we address I then went out and listened to what our the highest growth areas of the markets shareholders, customers and employees we serve.
We have set up five business were saying.
Understanding their needs units, each with clear accountability for was crucial as we developed our plans, customer satisfaction and financial and their views have helped to inform performance.
our strategy and will continue to guide our decisions.
We wanted to get as many The strategy and approach of each external, market-facing ideas as possible business unit differs according to in order to develop a strategy we could their current strengths and potential.
In parallel we built a highly Treasury & Capital Markets is prioritising experienced senior management growth and we are investing to expand team who are able to drive rapid and distribution and accelerate growth fundamental change through this potential.
Core Banking is focused on business and who are willing to be increasing profitability, and, after a held accountable for results.
disappointing performance last year, Healthcare is concentrating on solution I announced our new strategy on focus and differentiation.
In essence we will Services business will support this with expand along the value chain, building a consistent approach to services across on the foundation of our core application our global operations and our new software business and strengthening Open Source unit will capture the our presence in high value related opportunities this developing market markets such as product maintenance, offers.
We believe there are strong optimisation, transactions processing, growth opportunities in these areas.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 5 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review What Our strategy is to be the leading application software and services provider to the financial services and healthcare industries by delivering integrated, comprehensive solutions to our customers.
When Start: 2007 Get fit 12 years Win more 23 years Lead 35 years 46% revenue growth 11.5% margin improvement 24% revenue growth by 2009 Margin expansion to 20% Execute cost savings and Services growth rates of 35% productivity improvement Installed base growth Treasury & Capital Markets Invest for the future revenue growth Post-turnaround financial model Flattish revenues 23% margin improvement Benefits of product investment successfully launch new products SOA service-oriented architecture for Core Banking New products for Treasury & Capital Markets New products for connected communities 6 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing Our six strategic imperatives 1 Build a solutions orientation 2 Deliver a focused strategy and integrated portfolio for each of our business units 3 Develop winning partnerships and collaborations 4 Revitalise the organisation 5 Continuously innovate to capture market opportunities 6 Improve financial performance Misys plc Annual Report 2007 7 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review Matching the business to the market The combination of shared values and Focusing on what we do best is critical, accountability is also at the heart of the way we are developing employees.
Misys can which is why we have concentrated our The interests of management only thrive if its people are delivering the acquisitions and disposals strategy on are absolutely aligned with right results in the right way.
Making this optimising our core businesses.
The sale those of shareholders, happen requires hard work on all sides, of the hospitals businesses demonstrates customers and employees.
We this strategy in action.
We also believe Each leader is also clearly recently conducted the first ever Misys-wide that the best solutions require the accountable for delivering Employee Survey and 77% of our employees best individual components, and that results in their area.
That told us a great deal about sometimes partnering with others is a what is done well and what needs to be better and faster way to meet customers done better.
We are acting on the findings needs.
And we believe that in some and working with employees to achieve the geographical areas we can increase the changes required.
We also conducted our scale of our addressable market, reduce first ever Group-wide survey of customers, risk and increase the value we deliver giving us an important baseline from which to customers by working with expert to move forward.
Looking ahead we must start winning more Greater efficiency and effectiveness I think the business has made good initial We have established an Executive pr Committee of the Board, with delegated ogress on executing the strategy.
There is authority from the Board, to enable us to a long way to go, but I see some promising speed up decision-making on key issues.
developments in our markets that should We have also established an Operations help us.
Take technology: the growth in open Team comprising my direct reports, which source, service-oriented architecture and meets every second week to review facts web-enabled software services is rapid and operational progress in the business.
We will thrive in this exciting world if we can combine the spirit We are introducing common systems, of innovation here with the ability to deliver value for customers time after time after processes, measures and policies across time.
We have recently hired an executive to the business, so best practice is shared lead a new business unit focused on open and waste and duplication of effort is source so we can capture opportunities removed.
In total, we expect to generate here.
These are industry developments annual run-rate cost savings of around that we must embrace so we can lead in 40m through efficiencies and improved our markets.
performance across procurement, development, back-office services Ultimately, the success of the turnaround and customer sales and support.
will be decided by the difference we make for customers we must get out there and Heres an example of that approach in win more opportunities to show what we can action.
In the past we ran many different do.
Everything we do, every day, must be customer training programmes around about how we can combine our experience the world, with very little co-ordination.
and our solutions to get great results for That was confusing for customers and customers.
Finding more and more ways to inefficient for us.
Now all training and increase the value we deliver is our absolute education initiatives are developed and priority over the next 12 months.
So our customers, partners and employees have access to consistent, high quality training and development services and we can benefit from a growing source of revenue.
A winning culture We have an extraordinary collection of talent at the top of the company.
Each individual has made a personal Mike Lawrie investment in the long-term future of Chief Executive Misys, so the interests of management are absolutely aligned with those of shareholders, customers and employees.
Each leader is also clearly accountable for delivering results in their area.
8 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing
