Operational review Summary Core Banking Introduction of Misys BankFusion platform Success in fast-growth areas trade finance and retail banking Strong growth opportunities for services offering Guy Warren Executive Vice President and General Manager, Core Banking We are launching cutting edge Delivery Our business service-oriented solutions 12 years We are one of the worlds leading Built on the BankFusion architecture Deliver next generation providers of solutions to retail, corporate we acquired through our purchase of platform Misys BankFusion and wholesale banks and financial Trapedza Financial Systems in 2006, institutions.
We have the largest installed Expand in growth geographies Misys BankFusion will provide customers customer base of any banking software India, China, Eastern Europe with an agile platform on which to host provider and have a strong presence in and upgrade applications and services.
all major established and developing 23 years Existing customers will be able to geographies.
Develop and acquire continue with standalone solutions such components as Misys Midas Plus, Misys Bankmaster Our customers Open platform API to Plus and Misys Equation, which we are Banks and financial institutions rely on partners continuing to enhance as well, while our solutions to address a wide range having the option to evolve legacy of needs and opportunities.
Key areas 35 years products onto the new platform at the include cost reduction and control, Grow Misys BankFusion optimum time for them.
including the consolidation of back office developer community functions, multi-time zone working, and The service-oriented architecture of global processing and cash management: Maintain add-on module Misys BankFusion will enable customers fast-growth areas, including trade pipeline for cross-sell to streamline systems and processes, finance, retail expansion and loans: providing them with cost efficiencies, and geographical expansion.
greater flexibility and faster response Did you know times to opportunities.
Customer Priorities and actions We serve 1,200 banks and feedback on our Misys BankFusion Our critical challenge is to increase financial institutions in strategy has been very positive and the value we deliver to customers by 120 countries customers are already beginning to introducing Misys BankFusion, improving pilot its functionality.
We serve all of the worlds our product development quality and top 50 banks delivery, and providing excellent support We are winning customers in fast for customers across growth areas and Banking IT services market growth areas geographies.
in 2007 78.9 billion We are competing successfully across Source: Gartner a range of growth segments, including We are getting closer to customers Banking software market loans and trade solutions.
For example, We see excellent opportunities to deliver in 2007 14.1 billion the world-class e-banking solution, greater value to customers through a Source: Gartner Misys Trade Portal, which we added to wide range of new services, from high Global core banking our existing Misys Trade Innovation TI value business consulting to hosting systems market in 2007 Plus back office system in March 2006, of IT and business solutions.
Through US$24.3 billion has generated considerable interest our new customer advisory councils Source: Datamonitor we meet with customers to ensure we from customers.
Our strong set of trade understand and are satisfying their services solutions is winning customers changing needs, and we are acting and helping them to meet changing quickly on our findings.
demands in this fast-moving area.
20 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing We see excellent opportunities to deliver greater value to customers through a wide range of new services, from high value business consulting to hosting of IT and business solutions.
We are improving product CASE STUDY development quality Albaraka Banking Group, Bahrain, Lebanon and South Africa We have instituted a comprehensive enhancement of our development Albaraka Banking Group ABG, one of the worlds foremost Islamic Banking programme to address issues and specialists, is using Misys Equation Islamic to streamline operations, improve implement changes.
We are putting its retail and Islamic banking services and expand rapidly into new territories.
strong emphasis on increasing efficiency Our solution enables ABG to meet increasing demand for products and services and quality, and ensuring new launches that conform strictly to the principles of the Sharia.
Mr. Adnan Yousif, ABGs reach customers on time, every time.
CEO, comments: Misys value proposition of being a globally acclaimed solution provider, the rich functionality and advanced technology of the Misys We will help customers to benefit from Equation Islamic Core Banking system and an impeccable implementation new technologies track record convinced us that they were the right partners for ABG.
There is strong customer interest in open source free-to-use software Awards for Core Banking although its adoption in the tightly regulated banking sector may be slower Best Trade Finance Solution, Trade Finance Magazine Misys Trade Portal than in other industries.
We believe the June 2006 widespread adoption of open source-based Most Innovative Trade Finance Solution, Financial-i Misys Trade Portal applications will create many potential November 2006 opportunities and as an industry leader we will work with partners to develop and Market apply innovative new technologies for the benefit of our customers.
of deals Won by local % 2005 % INDIA 8 30 100 RUSSIA & CIS 41 39 77 Benefits of Software as a Service SOUTH EAST ASIA 15 13 53 Lowers IT infrastructure, MIDDLE EAST 28 19 14 installation, maintenance and AFRICA N A 48 0 support costs Re-allocates existing budgets more effectively Moves software from capital expense to operating budget Helps mitigate operational risk Provides new services faster to meet business objectives Harnesses the benefits of robust, proven applications Employs the latest hardware and software Achieves greater end-user satisfaction and service levels Offers flexible delivery of software and services anytime, anywhere Source: Misys Misys plc Annual Report 2007 21 Operational review
