The new Misys structure Treasury & Healthcare Core Banking Capital Markets Leading provider of Leading provider of Leading provider of solutions that help banks, solutions to retail, healthcare IT solutions.
financial institutions and corporate and wholesale Market leading installed corporate treasury banks and financial base of physicians and departments manage institutions.
Largest exceptional strengths in capital market activities installed customer base of supporting and connecting across all asset classes.
any banking software venues of care across the Now expanding the scale provider.
and reach of distribution cutting edge Misys Focused on enhancing network, increasing the BankFusion platform, solutions for physicians, value delivered by expanding in growth forming innovative solutions and building geographies and partnerships and services capability.
developing new developing solutions Unifying and supporting partnerships.
which connect business units communities.
Open Source Focused on working with the external open source community and driving innovation internally to create cutting edge, valueenhancing solutions for customers.
Immediate opportunities exist in integrating open source code into Misys applications, developing new business models and contributing to the open source community.
Global Services Focused on profitable growth and the adoption of one consistent services model based on best industry practice across all Misys businesses.
Now launching new service offerings to meet existing customer demand, and building capacity and capability.
Our market facing business units Misys plc Annual Report 2007 9 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review Implementing the strategy We are focusing the business on growth areas the geographies, business issues and technologies of most value and importance to organisations in healthcare and financial services.
1st Global survey We are acting on the findings of our first Group-wide global customer survey.
We are growing our global services business rapidly and launching new offerings that add value for customers.
40m Annual run-rate saving We are making the business more efficient by introducing common systems and processes across the entire company.
10 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing
