Key performance indicators Alignment of remuneration incentives 1.
Same outlet like-for-like sales KPI definitions with key performance indicators KPIs growth Mitchells & Butlers Same outlet like-for-like sales growth It is a key principle of the Company operational and marketing plans The sales this period compared to the to align the interests of the Directors have delivered strong and consistent sales in the same period in the previous and other key employees with those of like-for-like sales growth of 3% year of all managed pubs that were its shareholders.
Executive remuneration in the year 4.1% in FY 2006. trading throughout the two periods being as detailed in the Remuneration report compared, expressed as a percentage.
on page 35, therefore includes schemes 2.
EPS growth Mitchells & Butlers which contain elements of remuneration strong trading performance, together EPS growth linked to the KPIs below.
Same outlet with share repurchases and the share The earnings per share for the period like-for-like growth, EPS and incremental consolidation that accompanied the before exceptional items, compared to the return on expansionary capital are used as Special Dividend in October 2006, comparable period last year as reported in performance measures within the Short have generated growth in earnings the financial statements expressed as a Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP per share before exceptional items of percentage.
and the amount by which cash return 21.2% in the year 15.4% in FY 2006. on cash capital employed CROCCE CROCCE in excess of WACC exceeds weighted average cost of capital 3.
CROCCE in excess of WACC The post tax cash return on cash capital WACC is used within the Performance Mitchells & Butlers aims to maximise employed compared to the weighted Restricted Share Plan PRSP scheme.
the difference between the post-tax average cost of capital post tax, where the CROCCE and its WACC, a key cash return is earnings before interest, tax, Total shareholder return TSR is also measure of value creation.
A CROCCE depreciation and amortisation less cash an important measure of performance of 10.8% after tax was achieved in the tax that would be charged on operating for Mitchells & Butlers shareholders as 12 months to 29 September 2007, profit without any tax shield from interest.
it combines the increase in the value of around 4 percentage points ahead the Companys shares with any dividend of the estimated WACC for the year, Cash capital employed is the average returns made to shareholders.
Mitchells reflecting good operating performance net operating assets, plus the average & Butlers TSR performance compared supported by an efficient use of the accumulated depreciation, plus goodwill with its selected comparator group is balance sheet.
CROCCE was 11% written off, less the historical revaluation highlighted in the Remuneration report after tax in the 12 months to 30 reserve.
and forms one of the performance September 2006, around 5 percentage conditions within the PRSP scheme.
points ahead of our estimated WACC The WACC is the post-tax weighted for that year.
average cost of capital, calculated using For the purposes of remuneration the post-tax cost of debt during the year schemes, TSR is taken over the life 4.
Incremental return on expansionary and the cost of equity, weighted according of the scheme rather than as an annual capital Our track record in this area to the proportion of the Company measure.
Over the last three years, has remained strong during the period.
financed through debt and equity.
the Company has delivered an increase Pre-tax returns of 20% are being of 216% in TSR reflecting the success achieved on the core expansionary Incremental return on that has been achieved in executing capital projects carried out over the expansionary capital Mitchells & Butlers strategy.
This measure excludes Incremental return is the growth in the recently Acquired Sites due to the annual pub operating profit expressed Mitchells & Butlers implements and relatively short period of ownership as a percentage of the associated capital monitors its performance against its and post-conversion trading, making investment for sites having received strategy principally through four key it more difficult to estimate seasonal expansionary investment over the last performance indicators.
The performance patterns and annualised returns.
Sites are included in the year is as follows: Pre-tax returns of over 20% were once they have been trading for three achieved on the core investments made months.
For sites which have not been in the previous two years in FY 2006. trading for a full 12 months, incremental return is estimated based on an annualisation of actual post-investment trading.
Expansionary capital is capital invested to increase the trading area of a pub or to materially change the customer offer.
Expansionary capital represents investment over and above the maintenance investment cycle for a pub.
12 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007
