MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 10 strategy The best UK services company MITIE has always had a clear strategy of increasing market share and maintaining margins.
Our strategy has been formulated to enable us to achieve our vision which is to be the best UK services company.
We have a strategic focus on four values which emphasise what makes MITIE different.
These are underpinned by specic objectives for each area in terms of our clients, operations, growth and people.
10 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 11 MITIE values Responseability Deliverability Clients Operations Build excellent Deliver cost effective, relationships efficient solutions Continually Ensure robust systems improve tender and processes and rebid Maintain highest success rates health and safety Work together and environmental efficiently standards Innovate The best UK services company profitability Sustainability Growth People Achieve consistent, Recruit the best sustainable revenue Maintain culture growth of opportunity Engage all Promote development stakeholders and motivation responsibly Continue share Deliver expected ownership ethos profits and cash MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 12 Strategy continued Responseability Increase market share with exible service delivery MITIE has always put its clients first and strong client relationships are at the heart of our delivery model.
We aim to provide high quality, responsive services to our clients and will continue to innovate and build our bundled and integrated service offerings.
We have a exible approach so that our customers can choose any combination of our services to meets their needs.
MITIE operates in highly fragmented markets that are growing but always changing.
As a result, while MITIE still has relatively small market shares in all of its areas of operations, there is still plenty of room for organic growth.
Acquisitions have increased over the past few years and are likely to feature in our future where it is appropriate.
MITIE has three divisions: Facilities Services, Property Services and Engineering Services.
Overall across MITIE, single services represent 78% of our revenue, bundled services 14% and facilities management 8% with the majority of the revenue of both Property and Engineering Services being provided as a single service.
Facilities Services delivers services in three ways: through single, bundled and facilities management contracts.
Market share by service 10.8% 4.5% 4.1% 4.0% 3.8% 3.6% 3.3% 3.0% 2.6% 2.4% 1.0% Business Catering Cleaning Engineering Landscape Managed Pest Control PFI Security Property Engineering Services Maintenance Services Services Services MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 13 Facilities Services Single Bundled Facilities services services management 62% 24% 14% Our markets influence how we operate Bundling is when a client decides Facilities management represents as a business.
In the first wave to have more than one service 14% of our Facilities Services business.
to outsourcing in the 1980s clients provided by a single service provider.
The proportion is growing, and as MITIE outsourced single services, such For the client, bundling means grows in scale, opportunities for us to as Cleaning, Security or Catering, improved efficiency: it can mean compete successfully for larger private and they typically had a manager just one invoice a month, the services and public sector contracts will also who looked after each of the services.
being managed as one, a reduced open up.
This is an area where we 62% of our Facilities Services are still number of systems to audit and a will be investing resources in the future.
delivered as single service contracts smaller number of suppliers to The potential for MITIE is significant because most customers still want manage.
But sometimes the customer in this area and we are very focused to buy that way.
And we believe chooses to have separate contracts on growing facilities management.
it is important, and valuable, for MITIE because that works for them.
We This area of business includes PFI to be seen as a specialist company are exible, we have to be, because contracts, where we already lead providing specialist services.
the market in delivering managed services to schools.
And for the supplier of services, it provides opportunity.
24% of our At the moment MITIE performs business is now delivered in bundles, very little work overseas.
But there and we anticipate this increasing is a growing trend for certain types over the medium-term, because the of customer to want to procure bundles are getting bigger and services across a number of territories.
we are getting better at delivering We have therefore formed an alliance them.
Bundles represent a key part with independent service providers of our strategy and will be a major in France and Germany to offer a driver of organic growth.
common platform for providing these services in Europe.
This alliance trades as Service Management International Bundling has created behavioural changes within our companies.
Limited and it enables us to compete The MITIE Model has been excellent for such international contracts.
at forming management teams that are extremely focused on growing single service companies.
They have concentrated on becoming the best single service provider operating in their region.
Now that the market is changing they are putting that energy into becoming the best at providing bundles with their MITIE colleagues from other parts of the Group as well as remaining the best single service provider.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 14 Strategy continued Deliverability Maintain service excellence Delivering quality services to our clients has enabled MITIE to grow.
We provide safe, reliable services with robust systems and processes.
We manage risk effectively and maintain the highest health, safety and environmental standards.
MITIEs strength and the basis for its success has been its ability to deliver excellent services and we are structured to maintain that operational excellence.
Our structure is designed to respond to the needs of our clients and provide services to meet their requirements.
MITIE acknowledges that to improve our position in our chosen market place, we must provide an efficient and total quality service to all our clients.
To this end we are committed to meeting and exceeding the requirements of ISO9001:2000.
We recognise the importance of involving all levels of our workforce in the continuous development, management and review of our Business Management Systems to ensure their ongoing effectiveness.
The provision of a quality service is reliant on good leadership and positive management: it is therefore the responsibility of all levels of management to promote quality in all aspects of our work.
The management responsibility extends to ensuring that the requirements of the management systems are followed to meet the needs of customers and other interested parties.
Organisation chart MITIE Property Engineering Facilities Services Services Services Business Catering Cleaning Engineering Landscape Managed Pest Control PFI Security Services Maintenance Services 14 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 15 profitability Responsibly satisfy the needs of our stakeholders We regularly review our business model to ensure that it meets the needs of our clients, Shareholders, employees and wider stakeholder groups.
We operate a responsible business model and will aim to continue to grow both organically and through acquisition, with clear profit margin aspirations and targets for the generation of cash.
MITIE is committed to operating as an inclusive and diverse business which adopts open and honest communication with all of its stakeholders.
Being a responsible company is embedded in our business practices and makes sound business sense and provides an opportunity to gain strategic competitive advantage.
MITIE recognises the impact that its working practices have upon the environment and society.
We actively consider the following issues: Treatment of employees and employment policies Community relationships Environment and sustainability Human rights Ethical conduct with suppliers, customers and competitors Corporate governance Health, safety and welfare Charitable causes Corporate communication Diversity of our workforce profit growth m profit before tax 56.6 50.5 47.9 38.2 31.8 03 04 05 06 07 Note: 03 and 04 under UK GAAP, 2005 restated under IFRS.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 16 Strategy continued Sustainability Motivate our people to achieve sustainable organic growth As a service business, our people are our greatest asset.
Sustaining the quality of our people and enabling them to full their potential is vital to our future.
We will develop the MITIE Model to continue our culture of equity ownership for our staff and will manage our business to enable us to recruit and retain the best people to support our growth.
We have achieved high growth organically because we have been able to motivate our people to out-perform.
It is the culture of MITIE.
We behave responsibly as a business and we are a great company to work for.
People enjoy working for MITIE.
We motivate people through career development, respect, rewards and recognition and we are all passionate about what we do for MITIE.
The model ingrains an entrepreneurial attitude into MITIE.
Every part of the Group operates with a customer obsessed, cost conscious, cash focused culture.
We have introduced a Second Generation Equity Plan to provide opportunities for existing management teams in some of our older businesses.
This protects the earnings of our existing Shareholders and allows both them and the management teams to benefit from the super growth that they are achieving.
We are acutely aware that we need to be able to motivate all of our employees, so we have always used Executive share options and an employee share-save scheme.
We are now proposing to introduce a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP to help maintain the MITIE culture of entrepreneurial teamwork.
The MITIE Model has stood the test of time.
It is exible, evolving and is still a way of generating exceptional organic growth.
MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 17 Senior management Colin Acheson Suzanne Baxter Jeff Flanagan David Freeman Martyn Freeman Roger Goodman Colin Hale Ruby McGregor-Smith Peter Mosley Matthew Quill Bill Robson Alison Saunders Patrick Stirland John Telling Mike Tivey MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17
