Directorsreport The Directors submit their report together with the audited Share capital and substantial interests consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year Details of changes to the Companys share capital during the ended 31 March 2007. year and the number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the year end are detailed in Note 23 to the financial statements.
Principal activities and business review The Group remains focused on the provision of services in The Company has been notified of the following interests in 3% support of the buildings and infrastructure of clients.
The principal or more of the issued share capital of the Company as at activity of the Company is to provide management services to 17 May 2007: the Group.
Number of Ordinary % of Share A review of the Groups activities, operations, future developments, Shares of 2.5p each capital principal risks and financial performance during the year is Mirabaud Investment contained in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives Management Ltd 17,433,752 5.59 statement, the Group Finance Directors statement, the operating Goldman Sachs Group Inc 16,704,886 5.35 review, the statement of principal risks and uncertainties, the Legal & General Group plc 12,514,604 4.00 business review and the corporate governance report.
Prudential plc 12,427,019 3.98 Profits for the year Fidelity Corp. and Fidelity The Group profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March International Ltd 10,065,118 3.22 2007 was 56.6m 2006: 50.5m.
In June 2004 the Company commenced a share buyback Dividends programme which has continued pursuant to the renewed Subject to the usual Shareholder approval, the Directors authority given by Shareholders at the AGM in 2006.
During the recommend a final dividend of 2.7p per Ordinary Share to be year to 31 March 2007 there have been no further purchases paid on 3 August 2007 to ordinary Shareholders on the register of shares.
In the year ended 31 March 2006, 992,305 Ordinary on 6 July 2007, which together with the interim dividend of Shares were purchased by the Company representing 0.3% of 2.4p paid on 30 March 2007 makes a total of 5.1p for the year the issued share capital of the Company, for a total consideration 2006: 4.3p.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to which repurchased shares may be held as treasury In line with market practice, the Directors have agreed to bring shares rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the forward the date on which both the final and interim dividends Company and will be dependent on market conditions and are paid.
The Companys financial calendar can be found in other factors.
Directors The Group is introducing a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP, which will be available with effect from the payment date of Details of the Board of Directors are given on page 36. the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Details of Directors interests in the Ordinary Share capital of the Shareholders, if they choose to do so, will be able to receive their Company are shown on page 42. dividends in MITIE Group PLC shares.
The Company will continue to pay a cash dividend directly to those Shareholders who On 10 April 2006, Suzanne Baxter was appointed to the Board as choose not to participate in the DRIP.
An invitation to participate Group Finance Director.
Graeme Potts and Roger Matthews were in the DRIP will be sent to Shareholders with the Groups Annual appointed Non-Executive Directors of the Company on 27 July Report and Accounts.
Sir John Jennings retired from the Board and resigned his Non-Executive directorship on Events after the balance sheet date 30 March 2007.
Ian Stewart stepped down as Chief Executive On 2 April 2007, MITIE acquired the entire issued share capital on 30 March 2007 but continues to serve on the Board as Nonof Jabez Holdings Limited, which owns through an intermediate Executive Deputy Chairman.
Ruby McGregor-Smith was holding company 100% of the share capital of Robert Prettie appointed Chief Executive on 30 March 2007.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Roger The initial consideration was 8.6m, which was settled in cash of Goodman, Colin Hale, William Robson and Ian Stewart will retire 7.0m and through the issue of 1.6m of loan notes.
In addition, by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at 0.8m was retained against potential warranty claims.
Graeme Potts and Roger Matthews, both having been deferred consideration up to a maximum of 23.3m may be paid appointed since the last AGM, will also retire and offer themselves between 2010 and 2012 based on performance over three years.
This will be settled in cash and loan notes up to a maximum total consideration of 32.7m.
In addition MITIE assumed debt of The Board considers that the performance of those Directors 3.7m on the transaction.
proposed for election or re-election continues to be effective and that they demonstrate a strong commitment to their role.
Robert Prettie is a specialist plumbing, heating and mechanical services business concentrating on the housing market in the Midlands and Yorkshire, and employs over 250 staff.
In the year ended 31 March 2006, Robert Prettie reported consolidated revenue of 34.3m and profit before tax of 2.8m.
The acquisition adds significantly to MITIE Property Services range of services in the housing sector and complements its existing regional operations.
Robert Prettie works in partnership with local authorities, councils, developers and registered social landlords on kitchen and bathroom installation, heating replacement, gas servicing, maintenance and call out services.
Further details of the acquisition are set out in Note 25 of the financial statements.
38 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect Electronic communications of the financial statements The Directors are keen to improve and extend the methods in The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and which the Company communicates with its Shareholders and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare wish to move towards an increase in electronic communication.
accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial This will mean that Shareholders will be able to elect to receive Reporting Standards IFRSs and have chosen to prepare all Company communications via email.
Company financial statements in accordance with United At the forthcoming AGM, Shareholders will be asked to approve Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
an amendment which will align the Companys Articles of In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 Association with the new provisions of the Companies Act 2006. requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial This will allow the Company to send any document or information year the Companys financial position, financial performance to Shareholders electronically or to provide access to it via its and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the website, www.
co. uk effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance Employee involvement with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting The Directors remain committed to a culture that encourages Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation the inclusion and diversity of all of the Groups employees of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair through respecting and appreciating their differences, and to presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable promoting the continuous development of employees through IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: skills enhancement and training programmes.
The Groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and Properly select and apply accounting policies: motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be Present information, including accounting policies, in achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and of gender, race, religion, age, disability or any other aspect understandable information: and of diversity.
Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Communication with our employees continues to have a high specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to priority.
The Company maintains a Group-wide intranet site and understand the impact of particular transactions, other events delivers biannual publications to all employees.
Through the use and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial of their own communication processes each of the Groups performance.
businesses is encouraged to ensure that employees are kept In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required to informed on Group and individual business developments.
prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Employees remain actively involved in the Groups activities of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing via our Employee Forum.
This year the forum held two meetings these financial statements, the Directors are required to: chaired by Ian Stewart.
Following Ruby McGregor-Smiths appointment as Chief Executive, she will chair all future Employee Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Forums indicating to the employee representatives the importance consistently: that both Ruby McGregor-Smith and the Group attach to this Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and forum.
We look forward to an increase in involvement and activity prudent: and of our employee representatives.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been In maintaining a culture of share ownership, the Directors believe followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and that employees should be encouraged to build a stake in the explained in the financial statements.
Company through the ownership of MITIE Group PLC shares.
The The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Directors are recommending, subject to Shareholder approval, records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the introduction of a LTIP to reward, retain and incentivise senior the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the members of the MITIE management team.
The Group also assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and operates a Save As You Earn Share Scheme and an Executive detection of fraud and other irregularities, and for the preparation Share Option Scheme in the shares of MITIE Group PLC.
In of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which addition, it continues to support the MITIE Model and employee comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. participation in the shares of certain of its subsidiaries.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Payment of creditors Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of this The Groups policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed report confirms that: with suppliers.
Where terms are not negotiated, the Group So far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
At as defined in the Companies Act 1985 of which the 31 March 2007, the Group had 48 days purchases outstanding Companys auditors are unaware: and 2006: 55 days and the Company had 17 days purchases outstanding 2006: 17 days.
They have each taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any Financial instruments relevant audit information as defined and to establish that The Groups policy with regards to financial instruments and the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
the risks to the Group are discussed in the Group Finance Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue Directors statement.
in office as auditors and the resolution to reappoint them will be Charitable donations proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Charitable donations made during the year amounted to Going concern 116,650 2006: 105,800.
Donations were made to local After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company has As a matter of policy, no political contributions were made during adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the the year 2006: nil.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Suzanne Baxter Company Secretary 18 May 2007 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39
