MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:05 Page 36 Board of Directors David Ord Bill Robson Ishbel Macpherson Non-Executive Chairman Director responsible for Property Services Non-Executive Director and Chairman David was appointed as Non-Executive Bill joined the Group in January 1992 of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of MITIE Group PLC in following the acquisition of Trident Ishbel joined the Board in July 2005 September 2003, having previously been Maintenance Services Limited.
He was as Non-Executive Director.
Ishbel was appointed as Non-Executive Director in appointed to the Board as Director an investment banker for over 20 years October 2002.
David is Managing Director responsible for Property Services in August specialising in UK mid market corporate of The Bristol Port Company which owns 2001 and he has recently overseen the finance and previously held positions at and operates the Avonmouth and restructure of the Groups Property Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and Hoare Portbury docks.
Services division and the introduction Govett.
Ishbel is also a Non-Executive of a Second Generation Equity Plan.
Director of Hydrogen Group plc and Ian Stewart GAME Group plc.
Ishbel is also a Governor Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Colin Acheson of The University of Westminster.
Director responsible for Ian was appointed as Non-Executive Engineering Services Roger Matthews ACA Deputy Chairman on 30 March 2007 Colin was appointed to the MITIE Board having previously held the position of Non-Executive Director in August 2001 as Director responsible for Chief Executive since 2001.
Ian was a Roger was appointed as Non-Executive Engineering Services, having joined the founding member of MITIE.
He is NonDirector to the Board in December 2006.
Colin also Executive Director of Generation UK Roger previously held the roles of Group serves on the Boards of The Platform Limited, suppliers of scaffolding, access Finance Director of J. Sainsbury PLC and Company UK Limited, which specialises and safety systems.
Group Managing Director and Group in the hiring of powered access platforms, Finance Director of Compass Group PLC.
Ruby McGregor-Smith ACA and The British Quality Foundation which Roger currently serves as Non-Executive Chief Executive promotes business performance Chairman of both Land of Leather improvement and excellence.
Ruby joined the Group in December Holdings PLC and LSL Property 2002 as Group Finance Director.
Colin Hale promoted to Chief Operating officer in Director responsible for Managed Cullum McAlpine September 2005 and subsequently to Services, PFI and Senior Independent Non-Executive Chief Executive in March 2007.
Prior to Engineering Maintenance joining the Group, Ruby held a range of Director and Chairman of the senior roles within the support services Colin joined the Group in April 1998 Audit Committee sector, primarily at Serco Group plc.
and was appointed to the Board in Cullum was appointed as a NonAugust 2001.
Prior to joining the Group, Executive Director to MITIE in April 2003.
Suzanne Baxter ACA Colin was a Director of a facilities He is also a Director of Sir Robert Group Finance Director management company.
McAlpine Limited and Chairman of Suzanne joined the Board of MITIE in April Renewable Energy Systems Limited.
David Jenkins FCA 2006 as Group Finance Director.
Suzanne Non-Executive Director and Chairman Graeme Potts previously held a number of commercial of the Nomination Committee Non-Executive Director and operational roles with Serco Group plc.
Suzanne holds a seat on the David was appointed as Non-Executive Graeme was appointed as Non-Executive Opportunity Now Advisory Board, a part Director in March 2006.
Prior to retirement Director to the Board in July 2006.
Graeme of the Business in the Community BitC in May 2004, David was a senior Partner has extensive experience of the organisation with a focus on workplace with Deloitte & Touche LLP in London automotive retail and business services diversity, and is also a member of the having spent over 20 years in Assurance sectors having held previous directorate Finance and Risk Committee of BitC.
David is Chairman appointments with Inchcape PLC, RAC of Development Securities PLC and also Motoring Services and Reg Vardy plc.
Roger Goodman serves on the Board of Renewable Energy He currently holds a Non-Executive Group Corporate Development Director Systems Limited.
He is a Governor of Directorship with BEN, the Motor & Allied Roger joined MITIE in 1993 working Downe House School.
Trades Benevolent Fund and is Chairman alongside Ian Stewart in the Cleaning of Bikers Legal Defence Limited.
He was appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Through his appointment Member of the Remuneration Committee.
to the Boards of The Business Services Member of the Audit Committee.
Association and Asset Skills Council, Member of the Nomination Committee.
Roger advocates the growth of the support services industry prole and the development of skills in the sector.
In addition, he is the Chairman of Networkers International plc.
36 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
