Directorsreport Principalactivities  Mondi is an international paper and packaging group.
Its key operations  and interests are in western and emerging Europe, Russia and South Africa.
It is principally involved in the manufacture of packaging paper,  converted packaging products including corrugated packaging, industrial  bags and speciality packaging products and uncoated fine paper.
Mondi is integrated across the paper and packaging production process  from the growing of wood for pulp production and the manufacture of  pulp and paper, to the conversion of packaging papers into corrugated packaging and industrial bags.
It also has a growing speciality packaging  business focused on the production of release liner, extrusion coating and consumer flexibles products.
Businessreview A review of the business and a commentary on its strategy, performance and development are incorporated into and forms part of this report: Chairmens statement, pages 6 to 8 Chief executives review, pages 9 to 19 Group operations and financial review, pages 20 to 27 Sustainability review, pages 32 to 35 Risk management and internal control, pages 43 and 44 Directors Under the dual listed company DLC structure the boards of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc comprise the same individuals.
The directors in office as at the date of this report are set out on pages 28 to 30, together with their detailed biographies.
The directors as at 31 December 2007 were as set out on pages 28 to 30 with the exception of Peter Oswald who became a director with effect from 1 January 2008.
Both David Hathorn and Cyril Ramaphosa were directors of Mondi Limited throughout the year to 31 December 2007, having been appointed prior to the demerger of Mondi from Anglo American plc and the listing of Mondi Limited.
David Hathorn and Cyril Ramaphosa were appointed directors of Mondi plc on 1 May 2007 and 16 May 2007 respectively.
Paul Hollingworth was appointed a director of Mondi Limited on 23 May 2007 and of Mondi plc on 1 May 2007.
The remaining directors, Colin Matthews, Imogen Mkhize, Sir John Parker, Anne Quinn and David Williams were each appointed to the boards of Mondi Limited on 23 May 2007 and of Mondi plc on 16 May 2007.
Prior to the demerger from Anglo American plc, Mondi Limited, formerly Mondi South Africa Limited, was an existing Mondi Group company.
Immediately prior to 23 May 2007 the board had comprised, in addition to David Hathorn and Cyril Ramaphosa, John Barton, Godfrey Gomwe, Gnther Hassler, Claudia Manning, Vivien McMenamin, Otto Pichler and Theo van Breda.
With the exception of David Hathorn and Cyril Ramaphosa, each of these directors resigned from the board on 23 May 2007.
David Barber resigned on 12 February 2007 and Lazarus Zim resigned on 14 February 2007.
36 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 Mondi plc was formed specifically for the purpose of the demerger and, donations and sponsorships.
This devolved approach has resulted in prior to the appointment of the Mondi directors as detailed above, was support for a variety of programmes that have an impact on Mondis managed by the incorporation agents whose director was Hackwood employees and the communities in which they work and live.
 As announced on 11 December 2007, Peter Oswald was appointed an executive director of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc with effect from The Group has a dedicated central resource focused on identifying and 1 January 2008. seeking profit enhancing opportunities through the application of new technologies.
The research and development activities aim to provide All the directors will retire at the first annual general meetings under the continuous and proactive improvements in processes and products.
DLC structure of Mondi Limited and of Mondi plc, each to be held on Research is focused on improving the quality and range of products 7 May 2008, and will stand for election by the shareholders.
offered as well as making more efficient use of resources in production, in terms of both cost and environmental factors.
Expenditure on research Directorsinterests and development during 2007 was 8.9 million 2006: 6.8 million.
The interests of those directors in office as at 31 December 2007, including those of connected persons, in shares and in options to receive shares in Employees both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc are set out in the remuneration report Mondi is committed to the development and well-being of its employees.
The Groups health and safety policies and standards are fundamental to Dividends this commitment.
Mondis goal is to achieve zero-harm to its employees and contractors in the operation of its business and the Group undertakes MondiLimited significant initiatives on a continuing basis to achieve further improvements An interim dividend of 71.73637 rand cents per ordinary share was in safety performance and occupational health.
declared to shareholders registered on 31 August 2007 and was paid Mondi also places a strong emphasis on the training and development of on 17 September 2007. employees and on employee communication and involvement.
Following The directors have proposed a final dividend of 177.37939 rand cents the demerger from Anglo American plc, reviews were conducted of the per ordinary share to shareholders registered on 25 April 2008.
The final Groups organisation structure and talent management processes to dividend is subject to the approval of members of Mondi Limited at the maximise effectiveness and efficiency.
annual general meeting scheduled for 7 May 2008 and, if approved, The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees will be paid on 21 May 2008. and has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as No holders of Mondi Limited ordinary shares have agreed to waive employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the their rights to receive dividends.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings and through a range of other internal communication channels, including publications Mondiplc and electronic communication.
Employee representatives are consulted An interim dividend of 7.3 euro cents per ordinary share was declared regularly on the range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
to shareholders registered on 31 August 2007 and was paid on In the UK, the Group operates a Share Incentive Plan, described on page 17 September 2007.
48, and intends to launch a Sharesave plan in 2008.
The directors have proposed a final dividend of 15.7 euro cents per The main focus of the Groups diversity initiatives is in South Africa.
Mondi ordinary share to shareholders registered on 25 April 2008.
The final is committed to meeting the requirements of the Broad-Based Black dividend is subject to the approval of members of Mondi plc at the annual Economic Empowerment BBBEE Acts charter and has taken active general meeting scheduled for 7 May 2008 and, if approved, will be paid steps to this end.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully considered, The holders of 5,570,118 Mondi plc ordinary shares have agreed to waive bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of their rights to receive dividends.
employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is Donations arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be The Groups continuing policy is that no company in the Group shall make consistent with that of other employees.
contributions or donations for political purposes.
During 2007 the Group made charitable donations and community social investments totalling 6.5 million 2006: 5.7 million.
Operating within guidelines set by the Group, Mondis local businesses are responsible for choosing and funding their own causes through discretionary volunteering, Directors report Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 3 Directorsreport continued Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte & Touche LLP together Deloitte & Touche  have indicated their willingness to continue as auditors of Mondi Limited Mondi applies a policy of agreeing the payment terms as part of the and Mondi plc respectively.
The Boards have decided that resolutions to commercial arrangements negotiated with suppliers.
Once agreed, Mondi reappoint them will be proposed at the annual general meetings of Mondi aims to pay in accordance with these payment terms.
Limited and Mondi plc scheduled to be held on 7 May 2008.
The Group had 60.7 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2007 The reappointment of Deloitte & Touche has the support of the DLC audit 64.4 days at 31 December 2006 based on the average daily amount committee, which will be responsible for determining their audit fee on invoiced by suppliers.
Note 3 to the financial statements sets out the auditors fees both for audit Goingconcern and non-audit work.
The directors are confident, after having made appropriate enquiries, that Mondi Limited, Mondi plc and the Group have adequate resources  to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they With the exception of the proposed final dividend for 2007, included in note continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 9 to the financial statements, there have been no material reportable statements.
Management believes that its current credit facilities provide events since 31 December 2007. sufficient working capital to meet the present requirements of its existing businesses and that the gearing ratio is appropriate, given the nature of the Groups activities.
  Sharecapital The information for Mondi plc shareholders required pursuant to the Full details of the Groups share capital can be found in note 28 to the UK Companies Act 2006 can be found on pages 129 to 131. financial statements.
 Substantialinterests The annual general meeting of Mondi Limited will be held at 12.00 SA time At the date of this report, the Group had received notifications from on Wednesday 7 May 2008 at the Hyatt Regency, 191 Oxford Road, the following parties in the voting rights of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
Rosebank, Johannesburg 2132, Republic of South Africa and the annual The number of shares and percentage interests shown are as disclosed general meeting of Mondi plc will be held at 11.00 UK time on Wednesday at the date on which the holding was notified.
7 May 2008 at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ, UK.
The notices convening each meeting, which are sent separately MondiLimited to shareholders, detail the business to be considered and include No notifications received.
explanatory notes for each resolution.
The notices are available at the Groups website: www.
Mondiplc By order of the Boards Name Shares % Capital Research and Management Company 19,779,375 5.39 Philip Laubscher Carol Hunt Company Secretary Company Secretary AXA S. A.
19,059,172 5.19 Mondi Limited Mondi plc Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited 14,725,872 4.00 4th Floor Building 1, 1st Floor No.
3 Melrose Boulevard Aviator Park Tarl Investment Holdings Limited 12,987,806 3.54 Melrose Arch 2196 Station Road Gauteng Addlestone Auditors Republic of South Africa Surrey Each of the directors of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc at the date when KT15 2PG this report was approved confirms that: United Kingdom so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and 27 February 2008 each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
3 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007
