Chairmens statement The Mondi Group Financial highlights Welcome to our annual report for 2007 a year Sir John Parker of strong growth and positive change for Mondi.
Cyril Ramaphosa 2007 2006 change Operational 5,751 9% Group revenue in m Mondi is an international paper and packaging 6,269 We have every reason to and strategic 726 20% EBITDA in m group and in 2007 had revenues of 6.3 billion.
Its 870 be encouraged by Mondis highlights 377 33% Delivered a substantial Underlying operating profit in m performance over the past year.
key operations and interests are in western Europe, 502 improvement in financial Sir John Parker 305 33% performance, with underUnderlying profit before tax in m emerging Europe, Russia and South Africa.
405 lying operating profit up 33%, underlying earnings 223 71% Reported profit before tax in m 382 per share up 74% and return The Group is principally involved in the manufacture on capital employed up by 15.2 199% Basic earnings per share in cents We look forward to the future 45.4 2.5 percentage points of packaging paper and converted packaging to 10.6% with confidence and enthusiasm.
27.0 74% Underlying earnings per share in cents 46.9 Cash inflow from operations Cyril Ramaphosa products: uncoated fine paper: and speciality up 300 million at 957 million, 28.2 40% Headline earnings per share in cents 39.5 benefiting from improved products and processes, including coating, results and working capital n a n a Total dividend per share in cents 23.0 management release liner and consumer flexibles.
Achieved productivity 657 46% Cash inflow from operations in m 957 records at the majority of paper mills and delivered Mondi is fully integrated across the paper and 1,479 2% Net debt in m cost savings of 167 million 1,507 Further rationalised and packaging process, from the growing of wood and 8.1% 31% Group ROCE in m 10.6% restructured the business, including the planned manufacture of pulp and paper including recycled closure of 140,000 tonnes Group revenue EBITDA Underlying of uncoated fine paper paper to the converting of packaging papers into capacity at Hungarian mill up 9% at up 20% at operating Approved and commenced corrugated packaging and industrial bags.
6,269 million 870 million profit up 33% expansion and modernisation projects in Russia and Poland 2004 5,385m 2004 779m 2004 459m Successful listing of the Mondi has production operations across 2005 5,364m 2005 718m 2005 386m Mondi Group on the JSE 2006 5,751m 2006 726m 2006 377m and LSE on 3 July 2007, 35 countries and had an average of 35,000 2007 6,269m 2007 870m 2007 502m completing the demerger from Anglo American plc For definitions refer to glossary of financial terms on page 128 employees in 2007.
Proposed maiden final Group revenue dividend of 15.7 euro cents per share, to give a total 54% 46% Mature markets Emerging markets dividend of 23.0 euro cents per share with respect to 2007 2 Mondi Group Annual report and accounts 2007 In 2007 a new integrated DearShareholder Governance Sustainability sustainable development It is a privilege for us both to Under the dual listed company We aim to achieve a balance in management system SDMS introduce Mondis first annual structure, Mondi Limited in South ecological, social and economic was introduced across the Group report as an independent dual Africa and Mondi plc in the UK are values and we are proud of the which incorporates clear policies.
listed Group, following our separate corporate entities, each progress Mondi has made towards In future the Group will be audited successful demerger from with its own board and sharethis objective.
Our efforts are led by against the performance Anglo American plc in July 2007. holders.
However, Mondi operates the DLC sustainable development requirements of the SDMS and We welcome all our new shareas a single corporate Group and committee of the Boards which sites will be required to implement holders and hope that you will this is reflected in the fact that operates on a Group-wide basis and annual improvement plans.
have a long and rewarding both boards comprise the same is chaired by our independent nonWe are conscious of the impact on relationship with Mondi.
directors, with independent executive director, Colin Matthews.
our people of the rise in HIV AIDS non-executives in the majority As David Hathorn, our chief We pursue leading sustainable in South Africa.
Whilst we estimate on each board.
In addition, the executive, reports on the forest management practices in the prevalence of the disease in two companies are managed as following pages, we have the Groups owned and leased our employees to be less than a single economic enterprise and every reason to be encouraged forestry operations and the Groups 3%, and although it has not been shareholders in each company by Mondis performance fibre-tracing system ensures that a significant factor in absenteshare in the performance of the over the past year.
With some our wood and pulp come only eism rates, we have routinely Group as a whole.
improvement in pricing and from acceptable sources.
We provided voluntary counselling the concerted efforts of Daily management of Mondis are committed to reducing our and testing since 2003 and this management and employees, operations is carried out by the environmental footprint and have is now a standard voluntary part the Group produced a DLC executive committee, chaired pledged a 15% reduction in energyof our employees periodic medical substantial improvement in by David Hathorn.
This arrangement use and carbon dioxide emissions examinations.
We will continue to underlying operating profit, up maintains the independence of the between 2004 and 2014.
We have support our affected employees 33% to 502 million from 377 Boards from the team responsible also undertaken to reduce the and encourage them to continue million in the prior year, resulting for day-to-day management of the quantity of waste taken to landfill their treatment.
in a rise of 74% in underlying Group, whilst ensuring that the by 20% between 2005 and 2010.
 earnings per share to 46.9 euro Groups strategic objectives are Safetyandhealth cents per share 2006: 27.0 euro met and key risk and performance Mondis sites are often among the Mondi operates in a heavy industrial cents per share.
In addition, we areas are rigorously reviewed largest employers in their localities, environment and consequently made and announced a number and monitored.
so they have a clear duty of care safety is a key focus and the first of significant investments for to contribute to their communities.
As an independent Group employing item on every board agenda.
In an effort to help individual Group more than 35,000 people in 35 of the Groups sites are already operations to manage their social countries worldwide, with stock accredited to the most demanding and economic impact on their exchange listings on two continents, international health and safety communities, Mondi carries out we are mindful of the need to ensure standards and the rest are in the detailed assessments using a that Mondi adheres to best practice process of obtaining accreditation.
specially-designed Socio-Economic at all levels of its operations and Although our record is good, we Assessment Toolbox SEAT.
Our governance regard every injury as avoidable and complies with the key requirements every fatality as totally unacceptof the codes in both our domiciles able.
Each incident is thoroughly and our financial controls and investigated and prompt action administration procedures are of the taken to ensure that such accidents high standard which shareholders are never repeated.
have a right to expect of a leading international group.
Chairmens statement Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup Chairmensstatement continued We have also put in place Accordingly, the boards of Mondi Strategyandoutlook community engagement plans Limited and Mondi plc have Mondi has a clear mission: to be at all sites with a high environrecommended a final dividend of the best performing paper and mental impact.
Each plan identifies 15.7 euro cents per share, payable packaging group in the world.
objectives, stakeholders, details on 21 May 2008 to shareholders Our strategy for achieving this aim of community investment on the register at 25 April 2008. is equally straightforward: we will mechanisms and impacts, and An equivalent final dividend will be continue to increase our exposure recommends measurable action.
paid in South African rand on the to those high-growth emerging This typically takes the form of same terms.
markets which offer the best education funding, support for Taken together with the interim available returns in our industry, small business development, dividend of 7.3 euro cents paid on whilst further enhancing our value or the financing of sports facilities.
17 September 2007, this represents chain and rigorously controlling our In 2007 the Group spent a total a total dividend of 23.0 euro cents, cost base.
This strategy is reflected of 6.5 million on community paid in the approximate proportions in our improved results.
investment projects and we expect two-thirds final and one-third to invest at similar levels in the Our goal over the coming years is interim, consistent with the policy current year.
to secure the best returns for our we indicated at the time of the shareholders, whilst meeting the Blackempowerment demerger.
needs of our stakeholders inside Mondi fully supports the South and outside the Group and African governments policy of Organisationchanges operating sustainably across enabling Broad-Based Black From 1 January 2008 there has all our businesses.
Economic Empowerment BBBEE been a new organisation structure as a means of developing a On behalf of the Boards, we in place, the outcome of a thorough balanced, sustainable economy.
would like to pass on our thanks review of the Groups operations We give tangible expression to and appreciation to all Mondis following the demerger in July 2007. this through positive procurement people for their dedication and We now have two main divisions, and employment practices and commitment in a challenging Europe & International and South privileged support for local and busy year.
Africa, replacing the former Mondi producers.
We also have a valuable Packaging and Mondi Business We look forward to our future, empowerment partner in Shanduka Paper business units.
This new a new future as a successful Resources, the black-owned and organisation structure is part of independent Group, with managed investment company a continuing programme of confidence and enthusiasm.
which holds interests in our South performance improvement at African packaging and newsprint Cyril Ramaphosa Mondi, the objective of which is businesses.
Sir John Parker consistently to reduce costs and You can read more about Mondis improve effectiveness in a highly sustainability practices and competitive industry.
This latest achievements in our separately reform will further simplify published sustainability report, management reporting lines a summary of which you will find and eliminate duplication.
on pages 32 to 35 of this report.
We would like to welcome to the Boards Peter Oswald, who was Dividend appointed chief executive officer of the Europe & International division Mondi is well financed, with healthy and a director of Mondi Limited and operating cash flows and a strong Mondi plc on 1 January 2008. balance sheet.
Against this background our dividend policy David Hathorn discusses this new reflects our strategy of disciplined structure in more detail in his review and value-creating investment for on the following pages.
growth, which will in turn offer shareholders long-term dividend growth.
MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007
