Boardofdirectors JointChairmen 2,5 2 SirJohnParker CyrilRamaphosa Joint chairman Joint chairman Sir John serves as deputy chairman He is a past chairman of the Sir John Parker is a graduate of Cyril Ramaphosa graduated in law Queens University, Belfast, having of Dubai-based DP World Limited, from the University of South Africa Black-Economic Empowerment as senior non-executive director of Commission in South Africa and studied naval architecture and and joined the Council of Unions mechanical engineering whilst a the Court of the Bank of England of South Africa CUSA as a legal was the first deputy chairman of the and as a non-executive director of Commonwealth Business Council.
student apprentice at Harland and adviser in 1981.
He went on to Wolff, progressing to chief executive European Aeronautic Defence and found the National Union of He is currently vice chairman of Space Company EADS N. V. the Global Business Coalition on in the early 1990s and chairman in Mineworkers, South Africas largest 1994.
He has been a nontrade union, serving as general HIV AIDS.
executive director of Carnival plc chairman and chief executive of secretary until 1991.
Cyril holds honorary doctorates Babcock International Group plc.
and of Carnival Corporation since Cyril is currently executive chairman from a number of institutions, Carnivals acquisition of P&O Sir John is a former chairman of of Shanduka Group Proprietary including the University of South Princess Cruises, where he served Lattice Group plc, overseeing its Limited, which owns Shanduka Africa and the University of as deputy chairman following its demerger from BG plc in 2000 and Newsprint Proprietary Limited and Massachusetts.
He is a member demerger from P&O in 2000. subsequent merger in 2002 with Shanduka Packaging Proprietary of the DLC nominations committee.
National Grid plc, where he Sir John Parker is vice chancellor Limited, and non-executive Cyril is the former chairman of the continues to serve as chairman.
He of the University of Southampton, chairman of telecommunications Constitutional Assembly, which is a former chairman of Firth-Rixson a member of the Prime Ministers group MTN Group Limited.
He is negotiated South Africas first plc, P&O Group plc and of RMC Business Council for Britain and also a non-executive director of democratic dispensation.
Group plc, leading its transformation a Fellow of the Royal Academy of insurance group SASRIA Limited, and agreed sale to Cemex in 2005.
He was knighted in brewing group SABMiller plc, 2001 for services to the defence steelmaker MacSteel Holdings He has held non-executive and shipbuilding industries.
Proprietary Limited, financial directorships at British Coal Sir John chairs the DLC nominations services group Alexander Forbes Corporation, BG plc, GKN plc committee and is a member of the Limited and Standard Bank Group and Brambles Industries plc.
Boardofdirectors committeemembership 1 DLC audit committee 2 DLC nominations committee 3 DLC remuneration committee 4 DLC executive committee 5 DLC sustainable development committee 2 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 Executivedirectors Non-executive directors 4,5 4 4 1,2, 3,5 DavidHathorn PaulHollingworth PeterOswald ColinMatthews Chief executive officer Chief financial officer CEO Europe & International division Independent non-executive director David Hathorn graduated in Paul Hollingworth graduated in Peter Oswald graduated in law and Colin Matthews graduated in commerce from the University of commerce and accountancy from business administration from the engineering from Cambridge Natal and qualified as a chartered the University of Witwatersrand University of Vienna, beginning his University.
After taking an MBA accountant at Deloitte & Touche.
and qualified as a chartered career with Deutsche Bank and at INSEAD, followed by a period He joined Anglo American plc in accountant at Meyer, Wilson and automotive company KTM.
He in management consultancy with 1989 as a divisional finance Marsh.
He then spent eight years joined the Frantschach Group in Bain, he joined the General Electric manager, moved to Mondi in 1991 with international food and 1992, initially as head of internal Company US.
In 1997 he joined and went on to serve as finance distribution group Unigate, holding audit, later as corporate controller.
British Airways plc as managing director and then general manager a number of senior financial director BA Engineering and later After serving as chief executive of Mondi Europe until 2000, when positions and finishing as group became director of technical of the bag and flexibles business he was appointed chief executive controller.
He went on to become operations, responsible for from 1995 to 2001, overseeing its officer of the Mondi Group.
finance director of several listed engineering, IT and procurement.
recovery and sevenfold growth, companies including Ransomes plc At Anglo American plc, David Peter was appointed chief executive Colin was group managing director and fide La Rue plc.
was a member of the executive of Mondi Packaging Europe in of Transco from 2001 to 2002 and committee from 2003 and an In 2002 Paul joined BPB plc, 2002, leading its subsequent then chief executive officer of Hays executive director from 2005 and a leading international building integration with Frantschach and plc from 2002 to 2004, where he served on the boards of a number materials group and world leader recently-acquired Bauernfeind into commissioned the strategic review of companies, including fide Beers, in plaster-board.
BPB was the the new Mondi Packaging division.
which ultimately led to Hays Anglo Platinum and Anglo Coal.
subject of a takeover offer from transformation into a pure specialist At the beginning of 2008 Peter He oversaw the demerger of Mondi Saint Gobain and, after helping recruitment and HR services joined the Boards of Mondi Limited and its dual listing in London and to oversee the transition of BPBs business.
From 2005 to October and Mondi plc as chief executive Johannesburg in 2007.
David is a financial management to Saint 2007 he was group chief executive officer of the Groups Europe & member of the DLC sustainable Gobain, Paul left the Group in of Severn Trent plc, where he International division, comprising all development committee and chairs February 2006.
He joined Mondi oversaw the restructuring of the the former Mondi Packaging and the DLC executive committee.
in June 2006 as chief financial business into a focused water Mondi Business Paper operations officer, to assist with the listing and services company.
Colin is due outside South Africa.
demerger from Anglo American plc to join BAA as chief executive on and to lead the finance function.
He is responsible for the Groups He is chairman of the DLC financial strategy, planning, financial sustainable development controls and associated systems committee and a member of the and processes.
Paul is due to join DLC nominations, remuneration Electrocomponents plc as a nonand audit committees.
Board of directors Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 2 Boardofdirectors 2,3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 ImogenMkhize AnneQuinnCBE DavidWilliams AndrewKing Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Senior independent Group strategy & business non-executive director development director Imogen Mkhize graduated in Anne Quinn CBE graduated with information systems from Rhodes a bachelor of commerce from David Williams is Mondis senior Andrew King graduated in University in 1984 and gained Auckland University and a masters independent non-executive commerce from the University an MBA from Harvard Business in management science from director.
He retired as finance of Cape Town and qualified as a School in 1995.
She spent her the Massachusetts Institute of director of Bunzl plc in January chartered accountant at Deloitte early career with Anglo American, Technology.
She spent her early 2006, having served on the board & Touche in 1994.
He joined Andersen Consulting and Nedcor, career with NZ Forest Products for 14 years.
He is the senior Minorco, the international arm before becoming managing director Limited and the US management independent non-executive director of Anglo American, as a financial of telecommunications group consulting company Resource of Taylor Wimpey plc and a nonanalyst in 1995 and subsequently Lucent Technologies South Africa.
She then executive director of Dubai-based assumed responsibility for the Imogen is currently engaged in joined Standard Oil of Ohio, which DP World Limited, Tullow Oil plc groups investment management managing a number of growing was subsequently acquired by BP and Meggitt plc, chairing the audit activities.
He transferred to entrepreneurial companies in plc.
Anne went on to work for BP committees of all three.
David is Minorcos corporate finance various sectors, including energy.
in the US, Belgium, Colombia also a former non-executive director department in 1998, working on and the UK and held a number of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam a number of group M&A activities Imogen is a director of energy of executive positions including Navigation Company, Dewhirst before being appointed vice group Sasol Limited, engineering managing director of Alliance Gas Group plc and Medeva plc.
David president of Anglo American group Murray & Roberts Holdings Limited a BP joint venture and BP is a chartered accountant.
He is Corporate Finance in 1999.
Limited, Illovo Sugar Limited, Gas Marketing Limited and later chairman of the DLC audit His key assignments included investment management firm Allan group vice president of Gas, LNG committee and a member of the the restructuring of the relationship Gray Limited and Mobile Telephone and Natural Gas Liquids.
DLC nominations and remuneration with fide Beers, the reorganisation Networks Proprietary Limited.
of the Mondi Europe Group and is a member of the South African Anne is currently a managing Mondis acquisition of Syktyvkar Financial Markets Advisory Board, director of Riverstone Holdings Paper Enterprises.
the Harvard Business School Europe, a private equity investGlobal Alumni Board and Rhodes ment firm specialising in the Andrew was appointed Mondis University Board of Governors.
renewable and conventional vice president of business developenergy and power industries.
ment in 2002 and corporate In 2001 Imogen was recognised development director in 2004. by the World Economic Forum as Anne was a non-executive He served as chief financial officer a Global Leader for Tomorrow and director of The BOC Group plc of Mondi from June 2005 to May from 2003 to 2006 she was chief from 2004 to 2006.
She currently 2006, when he was appointed to executive officer of the 18th World serves on the MIT Presidents his present role.
He was heavily Petroleum Congress.
Imogen is Advisory Committee to the Sloan involved in the listing process and a member of the DLC nominations School, Massachusetts Institute establishment of the Groups dual and remuneration committees.
Anne chairs the DLC listed corporate structures.
remuneration committee and is a member of the DLC nominations and audit committees.
30 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007
