The other members of the DLC executive committee are: PeterMachacek KurtMitterbck MervynWalker CarolHunt CEO Uncoated fine & kraft paper Group technical director Group human resources Company secretary Mondi plc Europe & International division & legal director Kurt Mitterbck graduated in Carol Hunt, a fellow of the Institute Peter Machacek graduated in process technology from the Mervyn Walker graduated in law of Chartered Secretaries & business administration from the University of Graz in Austria, from Oxford University and qualified Adminstrators, spent 15 years University of Vienna in 1976 and specialising in paper and pulp as a solicitor in 1984, joining British with The BOC Group plc, holding began his career with Kienzle technology.
He began his career Airways in 1986 as a legal adviser.
various roles in the company Datasysteme and Tetra Pak in as a project manager with a paper He went on to become legal secretariat, the last six years as Austria.
In 1981 he moved to the machine manufacturer, later director in 1991 and director of deputy company secretary.
She Frantschach Group as sales and becoming production director of a purchasing in 1994.
In 1996 he joined Mondi in November 2006 marketing manager of the groups coated fine paper mill in Austria and was appointed global human and was formally appointed converting business.
subsequently production director resources director.
company secretary of Mondi plc of Hagen Kabel, a publication paper in May 2007.
In 1988 Peter became sales director He went on to become director mill in Germany.
of Patria Papier & Zellstoff, the sales of Heathrow Airport and then company for the Frantschach paper He joined Mondi in 1989 and soon director of UK airports, heading mill, and was shortly afterwards afterwards was appointed to the ground operations at all BAs appointed to the management board of Neusiedler as chief airports and leading a team of board of the mill.
He was chairman he introduced worldwide total of the Trustees of the BA Pension In 2000 he became executive vice chlorine-free pulp production and Schemes from 2002 to 2005 and president of Mondi Packaging Paper, established the first high-speed has been chairman of the Pension responsible for the Frantschach, three-layer headbox for copy paper Trustees of Amec plc since 2006. tti, Dyns and wiecie paper and the first high-speed single nip mills, and subsequently became Mervyn joined Mondi in his shoe press paper machine.
Kurt PhilipLaubscher chief executive officer of Mondis current role in June 2006.
He went on to serve on the boards of Company secretary Mondi Limited packaging paper division, has responsibility for the Groups a number of Mondi companies in Philip Laubscher, who holds responsible for the Groups five human resources, corporate Austria, eastern Europe and South B Proc and LLB degrees and is newly-acquired recycled communications, safety, sustainAfrica, before being appointed to an attorney of the High Court of containerboard mills in Austria, able development, legal and his present role in 2005.
South Africa, was in-house Switzerland, Germany, Italy and company secretarial matters.
counsel with national power utility the UK.
Peter assumed his current Eskom for 15 years before joining role and joined the management Mondi in 1999 as head of legal board of the Europe & International services.
He was appointed division following the reorganisation company secretary of Mondi of the Groups operations at the Limited in January 2001. beginning of 2008.
Philip and Carol work together Peter is vice president of the Austrian on the coordination of Mondis Federation of Paper Makers.
