04 Annual Report 2007 Our Business www.
com How We Do It Our price comparison services offer a compelling value proposition to both consumers and product providers, by simplifying consumers research, improving the consumers shopping experience and enabling product providers and advertisers to effectively target their marketing spend.
Leveraging our existing consumer base, technology and Our business strategy marketing expertise We utilise our significant sales, marketing and industry expertise The Group has a highly focused business strategy to ensure to drive the growth of the Group in the price comparison it maintains its position as the UKs leading price comparison marketplace.
We identify opportunities to offer new services website and to support its continued growth.
and products to our consumer base and to use our technology in innovative new ways.
com brand We invest signicantly in marketing, including television advertising, to promote awareness in our brand and to ensure How we generate revenue it is synonymous amongst consumers with price comparison in the UK.
We generate revenue by introducing consumers to product providers whose products feature in the price comparison results Improving the consumer experience on our website, in return for a fee from that provider on either a Improving the consumer experience sits at the heart of our cost per click CPC or cost per action CPA basis.
We continually improve website functionality, introduce new features such as MyMoneysupermarket, new Revenue is earned under CPC pricing arrangements when a products, additional editorial content, consumer and expert consumer clicks through from our website to a providers reviews, forums and community features.
This enables consumers website, having chosen the providers product from our price to consider a wide range of factors before making their comparison results page.
purchasing decision and increases their confidence, trust and loyalty in the Moneysupermarket.
com brand and the benets of Revenue is earned under CPA pricing arrangements when a the services we offer.
consumer clicks through from our website to a providers website, having chosen the providers product and either Innovating and maintaining our position as the UKs leading completes an application for a product or purchases a product price comparison website from that provider.
We focus our resources on innovation across all aspects of our business.
Consumers see the benefit of this innovation We also generate revenue from the display of advertisements on in enhanced website functionality, improvements in existing our website on a cost per thousand impressions CPM basis.
products or the addition of new products or features.
We We generate an impression of an advertisement each time it continually enhance the consumer experience so that we appears on one of our web pages viewed by a consumer.
remain their preferred choice for price comparison in the UK.
com Annual Report 2007 Our Business 05 the Telegraph, Independent and Times.
These often How we attract and retain consumers feature the Moneysupermarket.
com brand which builds consumer association with the Group as the UKs leading Our brand is one of our most important and valuable assets.
We have invested heavily as part of a highly focused marketing strategy to develop the Moneysupermarket.
com brand and Online marketing to market it to existing and new consumers.
This ensures we Search engine optimisation SEO continue to attract increasing numbers of visitors to our website We utilise SEO activities to maximise direct-to-site trafc from and continue to maintain our position as the UKs leading price search engines such as Google to our website.
In 2007, our website attracted 91.0m focus on enhancing the rankings of our website in the natural visitors, representing an increase of 31.9m visitors on 2006. results of search engines when a consumer makes an internet search.
Search engines do not charge for trafc generated in Our marketing strategy incorporates the following elements: this way.
Ofine marketing Search engine marketing SEM Television SEM focuses on the purchase of sponsored listings on search Between 1 January and 31 December 2007, we spent 17m on engines generated when a consumer makes an internet search.
television advertising including programme sponsorship.
The Sponsored listings typically appear at the top or right hand side television campaigns have generated a significant increase in of a search engine results page.
We aim to feature our website direct-to-site trafc and brand awareness.
Television advertising at or near the top of the sponsored listings table for relevant has helped improve our online brand recognition from 40% of keyword searches undertaken by a consumer.
internet subscribing UK adults in July 2006 to 73% in November 2007 according to a survey commissioned from YouGov.
Portal partners We have relationships with over 200 portal partners including Radio many of the leading websites in the UK, such as the Financial We utilise radio advertising to promote specic channels and the Times, Telegraph, Sky and Virgin Media.
We currently focus on financial comparison content and best buy tables within the balancing advertising to promote overall brand awareness and portal partner and these contain hyperlinks which drive targeted advertising to increase consumer trafc to specic high consumer trafc to our website.
value channels, such as motor insurance in March, when consumers tend to renew their motor insurance.
Press We pursue a focused strategy to ensure we feature heavily in the national press through news articles, expert commentary on topical issues and the provision of comparison best buy tables to a number of national newspapers including
