36 Annual Report 2007 Our Governance www.
com Directors Report The Directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the period from incorporation of the Company on 14 March 2007 and ending 31 December 2007 the Period.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are the introduction of business to financial, insurance, travel and home services product providers through its internet sites, Moneysupermarket.
com, and the provision of mortgage intermediary services through Mortgage 2000 Limited.
A fuller description of business activities is contained within the Business Review on pages 10 to 17.
Background information The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 14 March 2007 as a private company limited by shares with the name Precis 2682 Limited.
On 18 June 2007, the shareholders of the Company resolved to change the name of the Company to Moneysupermarket.
On 22 June 2007, the Company became the holding company of the Moneysupermarket.
com group the Group when it acquired the entire issued share capital of Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited and its subsidiaries.
On 25 June 2007, the change of name of the Company became effective.
On 9 July 2007, the Company resolved to re-register as a public limited company.
On 9 July 2007, the re-registration of the Company as a public limited company became effective.
Admission to the Ofcial List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange took place on 31 July 2007 Listing.
The registered and head ofce of the Company is Moneysupermarket House, St Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester CH5 3UZ.
Review of activities The Chairmans and Chief Executives reports on pages 6 to 9, the Business review on pages 10 to 17, and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 18 and 19, report on the Groups activities during the Period, likely future developments and principal risks and uncertainties, and are incorporated in this report by reference.
Information relating to corporate and social responsibility, and employees, is set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 22.
As at 14 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this report, there have been no important events affecting the business of the Company or the Group which have occurred since 31 December 2007.
Results and dividends The Groups audited financial statements for the Period are set out on pages 41 to 59.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 1.63p for each ordinary share.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on 30 April 2008 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 March 2008.
There was no interim dividend paid in the Period.
Share capital Details of the ordinary and deferred share capital of the Company, and changes to the share capital, are set out in note 16 to the financial statements on page 55.
Major shareholders As at 14 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this report, the Company had been notied of the following material interests in the ordinary shares of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of ordinary Percentage of shares voting ordinary share Shareholder rights notied capital notied Simon Nixon 271,905,882 54.80 Goldman Sachs & Co 43,053,578 8.67 BlackRock Inc 32,635,767 6.58 Capital Research & Management Company 28,115,000 5.67 Legal & General Assurance Society Limited 23,871,108 4.80 State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 4.14 Coatue Management LLC 18,167,261 3.66 Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited 15,334,859 3.09 Takeover Directive information Where not provided elsewhere in this report, the following provides the additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeover Directive into English law.
As at 31 December 2007, the Companys issued share capital comprised two classes of shares, ordinary shares of 0.02p each and deferred shares of 0.02p each.
As at 31 December 2007, the authorised share capital of the Company was 250,000 comprising 1,154,705,882 ordinary shares of 0.02 p each and 95,294,118 deferred shares of 0.02p each, and the issued share capital was 118,420 comprising 496,806,066 ordinary shares of 0.02p each and 95,294,118 deferred shares of 0.02p each.
The issued ordinary share capital represented 83.91% of the total issued share capital of the Company and the issued deferred share capital represented 16.09% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
com Annual Report 2007 Our Governance 37 On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person, or by proxy, and entitled to vote, shall have one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present in person, or by proxy, and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Except in very limited circumstances, the holders of deferred shares are not entitled to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting species deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the Annual General Meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
There are the following restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company: Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
Pursuant to an underwriting agreement entered into on 11 July 2007 Underwriting Agreement, each of Simon Nixon and Paul Doughty have agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, they will not, without the prior written consent of Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, directly or indirectly, sell or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in excess of the numbers specified below: In the period between 11 July 2007 and 31 July 2008, nil ordinary shares.
In the period between 1 August 2008 and 31 July 2009, up to one third of the number of ordinary shares owned by them as at Listing assuming for these purposes that any options held by them over ordinary shares had been exercised at Listing.
In the period between 1 August 2009 and 31 July 2010, up to two thirds of the number of ordinary shares owned by them as at Listing, less any ordinary shares previously disposed of in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement as set out above assuming for these purposes that any options held by them over ordinary shares had been exercised at Listing.
Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, each of the Non-Executive Directors and certain of the shareholders who sold shares in the Listing, and pursuant to a lock-up deed, a shareholder, has agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during the period between 11 July 2007 and 31 July 2008, they will not, without the prior written consent of Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, directly or indirectly, sell or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company held by them immediately following Listing.
Pursuant to lock-up deeds in favour of the Company, certain of the senior managers of the Group have agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, they will not, without the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, sell or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in excess of the numbers specified below: In the period between 11 July 2007 and 31 July 2008, nil ordinary shares.
In the period between 1 August 2009 and 31 July 2010, up to two thirds of the number of ordinary shares owned by them as at Listing less any ordinary shares previously disposed of in accordance with the lock-up deeds as set out above assuming for these purposes that any options held by them over ordinary shares had been exercised at Listing.
Under the rules of the Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Share Incentive Plan the Plan, eligible employees were provided with the opportunity to receive free shares on Listing with a value as of the date of Listing of 3,000, and all employees are entitled to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on unawarded or forfeited shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 14 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this report, the Trustees held 0.20% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship between the Company and Simon Nixon the Relationship Agreement.
The Company and Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Agreement that Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number including himself one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares in the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of the ordinary shares in the Company and three Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 50% of the ordinary shares in the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary shares in the Company.
As at 31 December 2007, Simon Nixon had not appointed any Non-Executive Directors pursuant to his rights in the Relationship Agreement.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon, a change of control following a takeover bid other than in relation to employee share option schemes.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all Directors must stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting after they are appointed by the Board.
The Articles of Association further require that all Directors will stand for re-election at least every three years.
38 Annual Report 2007 Our Governance www.
com Directors Report continued The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company a special resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the Companys existing Articles of Association in relation to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Authority to purchase own shares Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 49,680,606 of its own ordinary shares for either cancellation or to retain them as treasury shares.
The Directors will only use this power after careful consideration, taking into account the financial resources of the Company, the Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on expected earnings per share and the interests of shareholders generally.
Research and development The Groups research and development expenditure is predominantly associated with computer and internet software systems.
Successfully developed software is used to improve and extend the functionality and scope of the Groups internet and intermediary operations.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Directors The following were Directors of the Company during the Period: Position Date of appointment Gerald Corbett Chairman 28 June 2007 Simon Nixon Chief Executive officer 12 April 2007 Paul Doughty Chief Financial officer 12 April 2007 Michael Wemms Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 10 July 2007 Rob Rowley Non-Executive Director 19 September 2007 Their biographical details are set out on page 20.
Details of Directors remuneration, share options and share awards are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 35.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, each of Gerald Corbett, Simon Nixon, Paul Doughty, Michael Wemms and Rob Rowley will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Directors interests The Directors interests in the share capital of the Company and share options in the Company as at 31 December 2007, together with the changes in those interests between 31 December 2007 and 14 March 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this report, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 35.
No Director has any other interest in any ordinary shares or loan stock of any Group company.
Transactions with Directors and related party transactions The details of transactions with Directors of the Company and related party transactions in the Period are set out in note 21 to the financial statements on page 58 and the Corporate Governance Report on pages 23 to 27.
Directors and ofcers insurance During the Period, the Group maintained liability insurance for its Directors and ofcers.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company and of the profit or loss of the parent company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
com Annual Report 2007 Our Governance 39 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Internal control The Corporate Governance Report and Audit Committee Report on pages 23 to 28 includes the Boards assessment following a review of internal controls and consideration of the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Employees The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and consults with them on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This ensures employees views can be taken into account in making decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
Consultation is achieved through formal and informal meetings, regular briengs, publication of the Group newsletter and circulation to employees of results announcements and other corporate announcements.
This also helps to achieve a common awareness on the part of employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Company and the Group.
All employees are able to participate in the Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Share Incentive Plan which gives them the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary on a monthly basis.
This helps develop employees interest in the performance of the Company.
The Group operates a non-discriminatory employment policy and full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled persons, where they have the appropriate skills and abilities, and to the continued employment of staff who become disabled, wherever reasonably practicable.
The Group encourages the continuous development and training of its employees and the provision of equal opportunities for the training and career development of disabled employees.
Further details of policies and initiatives are given in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 22.
Borrowings The Group borrowed 150,000,000 on 22 June 2007 at an interest rate of 7.595%.
This amount was repaid by the Group in its entirety on 31 July 2007.
Financial instruments It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse uctuations in the financial markets on the Groups reported profitability and cash ow.
The specic policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are detailed in note 17 to the financial statements on page 56.
Political and charitable donations During the Period, the Group did not make any political donations and made charitable donations of 4,726.
Creditor payment policy The Company agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its obligations.
The Company does not hold any trade creditor balances.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened in the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each such Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc have indicated their willingness to accept reappointment as auditors of the Company, and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at fide Vere Carden Park Hotel, near Chester, Cheshire, CH3 9DQ on 22 April 2008 at 10.30am.
The notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company, with details of the business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting and explanatory notes, accompany this Annual Report.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2008 and signed on its behalf by: Darren Drabble Company Secretary Registered Ofce: Moneysupermarket House, St. Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester, CH5 3UZ Registered in England No: 06160943
