Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report, together the key performance indicators considered most with the audited financial statements for the year relevant to the Group is included within the Financial ended 31 December 2007. Review on page 22.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is included within Principal Group Activities the Financial Review on pages 33 and 35.
The principal activities of the Group are copper mining A description of the financial risk management including exploration and development, the transportation objectives and policies of the Group, together with of freight by rail and road and the distribution of water.
the principal risks to which the Group is exposed, is These activities are mainly based in Chile.
contained in the Financial Review on page 31 and in The Companys principal activity is to act as a holding Note 24 c to the financial statements.
Group operations are carried out through There were no significant events since the balance subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
The principal sheet date requiring disclosure in the financial subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that make up statements.
the Group are set out in Notes 15 to 17 to the financial statements.
One subsidiary, the Antofagasta Railway Value of Land Company plc, has a branch in Chile known as the Land included within property, plant and equipment FCAB which provides rail freight services.
in the financial statements is mainly held at cost.
It is not practicable to estimate the value of such land and Business Review minerals rights, since these principally depend on Under section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985, product prices over the long-term and will vary with the Company is required to provide a business review market conditions.
containing the following components: Land included in investment properties relates to a fair review of the business of the Company: and forestry properties which the Group maintains but does a description of the principal risks and uncertainties not use in any of its existing operations.
The land is held facing the Group.
for long-term real estate development and recreational The business review is a balanced and comprehensive potential and is held in the financial statements at cost.
analysis of the development and performance of the The fair value of such land is disclosed in Note 14 to business of the Company during the year and its the financial statements.
The review includes an analysis Results and Dividends using financial and non-financial key performance The consolidated profit before tax has decreased from indicators to the extent that these are necessary for an US$2,859.0 million in 2006 to US$2,750.2 million understanding of the development, performance and in 2007. position of the Group.
Where appropriate, the Annual Report uses other performance indicators, including The Board has recommended a final dividend of information relating to employees, health and safety US 43.4 cents 2006 US 43.0 cents per ordinary and the environment.
The review, where appropriate, share, comprising an ordinary dividend of US 5.4 cents includes references to, and explanations of, amounts 2006 US 5.0 cents and a special dividend of included in the annual accounts.
An interim dividend of US 6.2 cents was paid on 11 October 2007, The requirements of the business review are fulfilled which comprised an ordinary dividend of US 3.2 cents in the disclosures contained within the Chairmans 2006 US 3.2 cents and a special dividend of Review on pages 5 to 21, the Financial Review on US 3.0 cents 2006 US 2.0 cents.
This gives total pages 22 to 35, the Corporate Social Responsibility dividends per share proposed in relation to 2007 of report on pages 36 to 59 and the Corporate US 49.6 cents 2006 US 48.2 cents, including the Governance report on pages 64 to 71.
A summary of Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 60 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT special dividend.
The total cost of dividends to ordinary Society of Industrialists and the Confederacin fide la shareholders including special dividends proposed in Produccion y del Comercio Confederation of Chilean relation to 2007 will be US$489.0 million, compared Business.
Mr. Claro is aged 57. with US$475.2 million in 2006.
Mr. J W Ambrus was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2005.
Mr. Ambrus is an internationally Preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative renowned geologist.
He obtained a PhD in geological dividend of 5 per cent per annum.
The preference sciences from the University of Salamanca in Spain.
shares are classified within borrowings, and preference Mr. Ambrus is aged 64. dividends are included within finance costs.
The total cost of dividends paid on preference shares and Mr. C H Bailey was appointed a Director in 1987 and recognised as an expense in the income statement is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
was US$0.2 million 2006 US$0.2 million.
Mr. Bailey is a Chartered Accountant, and a director of General Oriental Investment Limited, RIT Capital Directors Partners plc and Atrium Underwriting plc.
Mr. Bailey will The Directors who served during the year are set out be aged 74 at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has a service contract with Mr. G S Menendez was appointed a Non-Executive the Company which cannot be terminated within Director in 1985.
He is a director of Quienco S. A.
and Banco fide Chile, and is Chairman of Banco Biographical details of those Directors seeking Latinoamericano fide Exportaciones BLADEX.
re-election are set out below.
The reasons why Mr. Menendez is aged 59. the Board considers that these Directors should be Biographical details of the other Directors are re-elected are set out in the Corporate Governance given below: statement on pages 65 to 68 and in particular in the sections headed Performance Evaluation and Mr. R F Jara was appointed a Non-Executive Director Re-election.
He is a lawyer and a director of several industrial companies.
Mr. Jara will be aged 55 at Mr. J-P Luksic is Chairman.
He was appointed a the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Director in 1990 and Deputy Chairman in 2000.
Mr. D E Yarur was appointed a Non-Executive Director He was also Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta in 2004.
Mr. Yarur is a director of several Chilean Minerals S. A. until his appointment as Chairman of companies including Banco fide Crdito e Inversiones the Group in 2004.
He is a non-executive director of S. A. Sociedad Qumica y Minera S. A. and AES Gener Quienco S. A. and Madeco S. A. Mr. J-P Luksic will be S. A.
He is also a qualified accountant.
Mr. D E Yarur is aged 44 at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Mr. G A Luksic was appointed a Non-Executive Mr. W M Hayes was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2005.
Mr. Luksic is a director of Banco Director in 2006.
He was previously a senior executive fide Chile and chairman of Quienco S. A. Compaia with Placer Dome Inc. from 1988 to 2006.
Mr. Hayes is Cervecerias Unidas S. A. and Madeco S. A. a former president of the Consejo Minero, an industry Mr. G A Luksic is aged 52. body representing the 17 largest international mining Mr. J G Claro was appointed as a Non-Executive companies operating in Chile.
He holds several board positions in Chile, and is currently chairman of Empresas EMEL Directors Interests S. A. Embotelladora Andina S. A. and the Consejo The interests of the persons including the interests Binacional fide Negocios Chile-China Council for of their families who were Directors at the end of the Bilateral Business Chile-China.
He is a former year, in the preference and ordinary share capital of the Chairman of the Sociedad fide Fomento Fabril Chilean Company are shown on page 73.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 61 Directors Report continued 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital.
Directors Indemnities With regard to the appointment and replacement of The Company has made qualifying third party Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Act which remain in force at the date of this report.
The Articles of Capital Structure Association may be amended by special resolution of Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share the shareholders.
capital, including details of any movements in the issued There are no significant agreements in place which share capital during the year, are shown in Note 28.
The take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry of the Company.
There are no agreements in place no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries between the Company and its Directors or employees one vote at any general meeting of the Company.
which provide for compensation for loss of office Details of the preference share capital are shown in resulting from a change of control of the Company.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% Donations per annum.
Each preference share carries 100 votes The Group made charitable donations in the United on a poll at any general meeting of the Company.
Kingdom of US$127,655 during the year ended The nominal value of the issued ordinary share 31 December 2007 2006 US$92,479.
These capital is 96.1% of the total sterling nominal value of donations principally related to educational studies all issued share capital.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a Supplier Payment Policy and shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which Creditor Days are both governed by the general provisions of the The Company acts as a holding company and does Companys Articles of Association and prevailing not trade in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.
Details of significant holdings in the days for the Group have been calculated at 33 days Companys shares are set out in the Substantial 2006 33 days.
Each operating company is Shareholdings section below.
responsible for agreeing terms of payment with each The Company has the authority to purchase up to of their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to 98,585,669 of its own ordinary shares, representing suppliers are made in accordance with terms agreed.
Substantial Shareholdings As at the date of this report, the following holdings of voting rights exceeding the 3% notification threshold had been disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Ordinary Preference Total share capital share capital share capital %%% Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 Kupferberg Establishment 9.93 8.26 Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 AXA S. A.
6.01 5.00 Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both controlled by the E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
As explained on page 133, Metalinvest Establishment is the immediate parent company of the Group and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the ultimate parent company.
Aureberg Establishment is controlled by Mr. J-P Luksic, the Chairman of the Company.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 62 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT Environment Annual General Meeting and Class The Group seeks to ensure that its operations and Meetings products cause minimal harm to the environment.
Care The Annual General Meeting and Class Meetings of is taken to limit discharges of environmentally harmful the Company will be held from 10.30 a. m. on 11 June substances and to dispose of waste material in a safe 2008 at Church House Conference Centre, Deans manner.
Contingency arrangements and plans exist to Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
The Notice of reduce the risk and limit the effect of any accidental the Meeting, together with an explanation of the spillage.
The Groups policy is that all its operations business to be dealt with at the Meeting, is included in should comply fully with or exceed applicable Chilean a separate document sent to shareholders with this regulations.
Further information regarding the Groups Annual Report.
environmental performance and activities is given in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on By Order of the Board pages 36 to 59.
Auditors In the case of each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit For and on behalf of information of which the Companys auditors are Petershill Secretaries Limited unaware: and Company Secretary 10 March 2008 he has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
This statement is made and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 63
