OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION 1 FOCUS ON HIGHER GROWTH, HIGHER MARGIN, NON-ECONOMICALLY CYCLICAL MARKETS ENABLING A PERFECT SMILE Our Technical Ceramics plant in Stourport, UK, is applying ceramic injection moulding techniques to a rapidly expanding market: dental implants.
Replacement teeth have traditionally used titanium supports, whereas Technical Ceramics offers a solution using zirconia material that is both medically and cosmetically superior.
Approved for medical implants with ISO 13356, we are participating in a market currently growing by 15%25% a year.
In addition to this dental application, we are also using ceramic injection moulding to provide solutions in a wide variety of demanding sectors.
2 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION SUN SHINES ON RENEWABLE ENERGY The rapidly increasing global need for renewable energy is driving markets such as solar power to achieve growth rates in excess of 30%.
Links with the silicon semiconductor industry helps our Carbon Division to compete effectively in this marketplace.
With strong sector expansion predicted, the potential for growth is significant.
MIDDLE EAST ENJOYS THREE PRONGED SUCCESS Thermal Ceramics in the Middle East is targeting three areas of strong end market growth: petrochemical, power generation and aluminium production.
Being a major producer of oil and gas, the Middle East is investing heavily in petrochemical plants to meet the growing plastics needs of emerging economies like China and India.
Increasing local demand for power plants, to meet the electricity need of consumers and industry as well as to run the regions desalination plants, is predicted to double the power capacity during the next eight years.
Aluminium production is also forecast to double between 2005 and 2010.
Thermal Ceramics supply of total package and insulation solutions for each of these industries places us in a strong position to deliver continued strong growth in the region.
2 BEING HIGHER VALUE-ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SLIPPERY TREATMENT FOR DIRTY FINGERS A project that has the potential to be regarded as a step-change for the company is currently being pursued by our Technical Ceramics Division.
It has developed hi-tech, scratch and wear resistant coatings to protect biometric recognition devices.
In addition to providing for greatly enhanced product lifetimes, the coatings are slippery so that dirt and contaminants are less likely to adhere.
The market uses retina and fingerprint recognition technology in commercial and for military security applications, such as protection from identity theft and for the policing of high security sites.
This is a young market that is growing rapidly.
SUPERWOOL EARNS SUPER STATUS Our new high temperature Superwool product, the Superwool 607HT SW607HT, has been significantly improved so that it equals the strength and quality of our existing lower temperature Superwool 607 but can be used at much higher temperatures.
The enhancements have been well received by customers resulting in SW607HT becoming the insulation material of choice for a wide range of manufacturers in the steel, ceramics and glass industries.
Engineered to meet increasingly stringent environmental regulations, SW607HT offers low biopersistency, making it environmentally friendly.
Already achieving robust, profitable growth in Europe from its manufacturing base in France, SW607HT will be rolled out to the rest of the world during 2008.
DEFLECTING THE FLAK Through its investment in NP Aerospace, the Carbon Division has expanded its geographical spread, materials capability and customer base in the armour market.
NP Aerospace is a major supplier to the UK Ministry of Defence for personal protection, both body armour and helmets, and for vehicle protection.
The composite technology that NP Aerospace has, combined with Carbons ceramic technology, gives a product that can meet the needs for both lighter and more resilient protection against ballistic threats.
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 5 3 BEING NUMBER ONE OR TWO IN OUR CHOSEN MARKET SEGMENTS LUXEMBOURGS SUCCESS IS SEALED Seal faces, engineered, marketed and manufactured at our Carbon Divisions Luxembourg site enjoy a leading position in the petrochemical market.
The components, composed of carbon graphite or silicon carbide, are used in sealing devices for chemical and petrochemical pumps and other critical equipment.
High growth in the petrochemical industry, caused by a worldwide increased demand for petroleum based products such as fuels and plastics, along with our ability to provide high quality, global solutions for global customers, has resulted in strong levels of demand.
THE HIP BONES CONNECTED Our Technical Ceramics plant in the UK is a leading manufacturer of medical implant devices, such as hip replacements.
In response to demand for increasingly stronger and thinner, long lasting, biocompatible materials, our ongoing R&D programme has developed an alumina matrix composite material called Vitox AMC.
It is expected to replace metal and high purity alumina ceramics as the material of choice among orthopaedic specialists.
Further growth is forecast through prostheses for other joints, such as knees, thumbs, elbows, shoulders and the spine and devices for new less invasive surgical techniques.
BUILDING A NEW DELHI OFFICE FROM SCRATCH Pankaj Mehrotra is the General Manager of our Ciria operation in New Delhi, India.
Two years after joining Morgan Crucible from an engineering background, Pankaj set up the New Delhi office from scratch.
With support from the Thermal Ceramics global team, Pankaj has successfully overseen the training and development of 25 direct employees.
The business continues to grow in the Indian market supported by the two-way flow of knowledge and resources to and from other Thermal Ceramics operations around the world.
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 7 SPEAKING UP FOR OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE By fostering a culture of open communication throughout the workforce, the Shanghai Morgan Carbon Company has succeeded in achieving high levels of operational excellence.
Training is provided for all employees in areas such as management, health & safety and English.
Communication is encouraged through practices such as an employee suggestion scheme and an informal monthly meeting where employees are invited to share their ideas with senior management.
These practices recently resulted in an improvement suggested by an employee that saved two days from a nineteen day production cycle, resulting in reduced customer lead times and lower production costs.
HAVING A CULTURE OF OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AND COST EFFICIENCY 4 8 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION IN PURSUIT OF EXCELLENCE Whilst rationalising the four UK sites that produce ceramic powders down to two, we have developed centres of excellence at our Technical Ceramics sites at Stourport and Ruabon.
By concentrating its capital equipment, resources and expertise, Technical Ceramics has improved operational performance, enabled process innovation and cut energy costs through increased efficiency.
More highly-skilled teams now produce the base materials for use at multiple sites in cleaner, more tightly controlled, specialist materials production environments.
In addition, by creating recognised centres of excellence, stronger ties have been forged with the wider scientific community including universities and industry groups, enhancing knowledge of our work and expertise.
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 9 5 FINDING, KEEPING AND DEVELOPING THE RIGHT PEOPLE TELLING US HOW IT IS In September 2007 we published the results of our fourth global employee survey.
This revealed improvements in most areas and a strong sense of loyalty among our people.
Where survey questions echoed those from previous surveys, the vast majority of this years responses were more positive than in the past.
In the spirit of continuous improvement, we have identified areas where we can do even better including skills development, communication, recognition of good work and environmental improvements.
Global plans have been drawn up to address these across the Group and local plans have been created to improve individual sites.
MAKING ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT COUNT An example of our desire and commitment to develop our people is Joe Landa, Vice President of Operations for Thermal Ceramics, USA and Canada.
Joe participated in a business development training programme which included Key Account Management.
He put his training to good effect in cultivating a strong partnership with a major automotive supplier.
His work enabled Thermal Ceramics to move from being simply a raw material supplier, to providing engineered, value-added solutions.
The partnership continues to strengthen today, with global joint development efforts producing new materials to meet the ever increasing technical demands of the industry.
ARRIVING ON TIME BY BALLOON Sandra Ertl, Financial Controller of Morgan Technical Ceramics Hayward plant in California, has successfully seen on time delivery figures improve dramatically in just three months.
Our Technical Ceramics Distinctive Competence Training Programme motivated her to find ways to improve significantly the plants throughput.
Her enthusiasm was infectious and helped to drive a significant culture change at the plant.
Sandras imaginative innovations included factory-wide problem-solving teams and a teamwork ethos inspired by, among other things, the use of red helium balloons at shop floor workstations to highlight time-critical jobs.
