QXD 28 2 08 22:26 Page 18 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Health and safety statistics 2007 738 535 202 1 The new Construction Design and Management Regulations 2007 came into effect in April 2007 and the Group is continuing to incorporate the new requirements into its training regimes.
The Group is also a co-sponsor of the Trojan Horse research and development project which is aimed at improving the labelling of packaging for construction products to assist in the recognition 2006 736 of health and safety risks to employees.
The project is a joint venture initiative involving the Group, the Health and Safety 535 Executive, Construction Skills and construction product manufacturers to produce pictorial images for delivering health 201 and safety messages to an increasingly multi-lingual workforce.
None Environment The Group is committed to minimising the impact of its business on the environment in which it operates.
The commercial director is the executive director responsible on behalf of the Board for environmental affairs.
The environmental forum is responsible for agreeing and implementing the Groups environmental management policy and consists of the heads of environmental management from each division.
Examples of the Groups commitment to the environment are 981 as follows.
2005 778 All sites across the Group now incorporate environmental training into their site inductions and have spill kits present to prevent pollution discharges to the environment.
203 On the Upper Forth Crossing project at Kincardine a significant amount of waste materials from mining, railways and electricity None production as well as concrete and rock waste generated on site have been used as fill for the road and embankment areas.
The local sourcing and nature of these materials has resulted in a significant reduction in the environmental impacts of heavy haulage and quarrying of virgin materials as well as providing significant cost benefits.
16 Fatal Number Major incidents AIR Over 3 day incidents AIR Total of all reportable incidents Fatal Number Major incidents AIR Over 3 day incidents AIR Total of all reportable incidents Fatal Number Major incidents AIR Over 3 day incidents AIR Total of all reportable incidents 77136 FRONT ART.
QXD 28 2 08 22:26 Page 19 2007 Objectives 2007 Progress Maintaining ISO14001 accreditations within each division 100% accreditation maintained 80% of the Group by turnover monitored the amount of their Total tonnage of waste diverted from landfill waste diverted from landfill and reported that 505,000 tonnes of waste were diverted from landfill out of a total of 808,000 tonnes Monitoring the kilowatt hours for offices where the Group The Group has used 2,300,000 kwhrs of energy in offices where receives energy bills it receives the energy bills Improving the amount of sustainable timber purchased as 46% of the Group by turnover purchase 98% of their timber a percentage of total timber purchased from sustainable sources In 2007, the Construction division introduced a campaign to raise The Group continues to develop its relationship with its insurers the awareness of the impact of individuals and the business on the and insurance brokers, assimilating their proactive input into a wide environment.
The division is in the process of developing a business range of risk management and mitigation issues to try and eliminate calculator that will recognise the combined impacts of: risk at source rather than addressing situations after an incident has occurred.
In 2008, the Group will be working closely with its travel insurers on improving its approach to motor risk management.
procurement of materials services resource use During 2007 the Groups head of procurement has worked with waste management.
the divisions to develop projects that will help the Group to improve performance in the following key areas: The Affordable Housing division is firmly engaged in the challenges of direct purchases of timber by the Group are now made from a delivering sustainable housing and achieving zero-carbon homes ahead select number of pre-qualified suppliers who are able to develop of the Governments target of 2016.
An example of an initiative already a full chain of custody and to demonstrate a clear auditable undertaken is a Partnership Housing Project in Scotland that features supply chain to ensure that the timber sources are sustainable a range of sustainable and renewable energy initiatives such as ground during 2007, the Group commenced a programme with a rigorous source heat pumps to provide underfloor heating which are intended pre-qualification process to ensure that its waste collection service to improve energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions.
suppliers are registered for legal compliance and can demonstrate In the Fit Out division, the refurbishment of Morgan Lovells London best practice in segregation and the minimisation of materials office set a new standard for energy efficiency and sustainable sent to landfill procurement for a commercial office design and refurbishment project the Group is in the process of launching a project to measure the in Central London.
This project incorporated the use of energy efficient amount of recycled materials being used on its projects to enable lighting, heating and cooling systems, certified sustainable timber, it to measure its performance in the future based on clear and natural fabrics and recycled carpets.
In addition, the division, auditable statistics.
in conjunction with a carefully selected group of preferred waste contractors, is achieving recycling rates ahead of the industry average.
Forward-looking statements During 2007, Fit Out made nine client projects carbon neutral, This business review has been prepared solely to assist shareholders offsetting 374 tonnes of carbon dioxide as well as raising to assess the Boards strategies and their potential to succeed.
environmental awareness amongst its client base.
It should not be relied on by any other party for other purposes.
Forward-looking statements have been made by the directors in Commercial good faith using information available up until the date that they The Group is committed to seeking predictability and sustainability approved the report of the directors.
Forward-looking statements in its profit streams to ensure that it will be able to meet its commitments should be regarded with caution because of the inherent to the environment and the communities in which it operates.
uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
The Fit Out and Construction divisions have developed a programme for measuring client satisfaction called Perfect Delivery.
The Fit Out division achieved the Perfect Delivery standard on 440 of the 522 projects 84% undertaken during the year, whilst the Construction division achieved the same status on 106 of the 173 projects 61% it completed in 2007.
QXD 5 3 08 14:42 Page 20 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Fit Out 18 77136 FRONT ART.
QXD 5 3 08 14:42 Page 21 The Fit Out division is a leading provider of fit out Projects typically encompass elements such as ceilings, and refurbishment services to clients in the UK.
floors, air conditioning, mechanical and electrical The division comprises four businesses, namely services, partitioning, finishes and furniture.
Recent Overbury, Morgan Lovell, Vivid Interiors and market growth has been driven principally by activity Backbone Furniture.
Each business focuses on a in the financial services sector and closely linked to different part of the fit out sector.
Overbury provides this, the business services sectors.
In addition, the traditional fit out and refurbishment services to the public sector market has been strong as the Government commercial office sector.
Morgan Lovell also focuses seeks to improve the quality of its property estate.
on commercial offices but provides a complete The divisions clients are the occupiers of property interior design and fit out service.
Vivid Interiors rather than the owners.
Lead times to projects undertakes fit outs and refurbishments in the hotel, are relatively short which results in the divisions retail, leisure and education sectors and Backbone order book only being around four to five months Furniture is a furniture supplier for commercial in length.
The division has national coverage and operates from locations in London, the South East, the Midlands and the North of England.
The division works for a broad range of clients both public and private, which allows it to adapt to changes in any particular sector.
The average contract size is 1.0m although projects can range in size from 10,000 to 50m.
QXD 29 2 08 14:04 Page 22 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Constructions expertise is in the health, education, light industrial, property services, defence, retail and the pharmaceutical and manufacturing sectors.
Morgan Ashurst was formed during 2007 following The division focuses on key client relationships and the acquisition of Amec plcs Design and Project frameworks to reduce reliance on competitively tendered Services DPS business when the construction projects as a source of work.
activities of DPS were combined with Bluestone, Highlights from 2007 include the strengthening of Morgan Sindalls existing construction business.
the divisions presence in the health sector through The combined business provides construction the securing of construction services to its fifth NHS and design services across the UK with projects LIFT scheme at Bury Tameside and Glossop, and further ranging from 50,000 to over 300m.
The divisions expansion in the education sector through securing expertise is in the health, education, light industrial, the construction for the East Dunbartonshire Schools property services, defence, retail and the pharmaceutical PFI, in addition to the delivery of the first five PFI and manufacturing sectors.
schools for the South Lanarkshire PFI project.
Morgan Ashurst also offers design, engineering The division employs 2,100 people across 28 locations and project management expertise through its sister in the UK.
company, Morgan Professional Services, a leading design business with particular strengths in the pharmaceutical and manufacturing sectors.
QXD 28 2 08 22:26 Page 24 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Infrastructure Services 22 77136 FRONT ART.
QXD 28 2 08 22:26 Page 25 in Lincolnshire, and it strengthened its presence in Morgan Est is a leading UK provider of civil the electricity sector by securing a 165m contract to engineering and utilities services to the transport, build substations for National Grid as well as a 48m utilities and defence sectors.
It has particular expertise contract for the renewal of overhead power lines for in tunnelling and bridges and focuses on complex EDF Energy.
engineering projects from early stage design through to delivery and completion.
The division comprises The divisions activities were also strengthened in five businesses covering tunnelling, infrastructure, rail, 2007 by the acquisition of DPS.
This introduced utilities and specialist plant.
new clients such as Welsh Water, BAA and Defence Estates and broadened the divisions capabilities in In the utilities sector, the division undertakes both piling and tunnelling.
capital projects for utility companies, such as water treatment plants, as well as utilities services such as The division is based in Rugby, operates across the the renewal of water and sewerage networks.
The UK and employs 3,000 people.
market remained buoyant in 2007 and, amongst other notable achievements, the division won a contract to widen the M1 between junctions 25 and 28 and a contract to improve the A1073 Morgan Est has particular expertise in tunnelling and bridges and focuses on complex engineering projects from early stage design through to delivery and completion.
23 This photograph was staged for publicity purposes.
QXD 5 3 08 11:31 Page 26 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Lovells expertise is in mixed tenure developments, whereby houses for open market sale are developed alongside homes built for rent by housing associations.
Lovell is a leading provider of affordable housing from kitchen and bathroom replacement through in the UK.
Working in partnership with local to complete interior and exterior refurbishment.
authorities and housing associations, Lovell builds This programme is being delivered through framework homes for rent and affordable open market housing arrangements which provide a planned schedule of for private sale, principally in mixed tenure developments, refurbishment works, typically over a five year period.
whereby open market homes are developed alongside The division is also focusing on larger housing-led homes built for rent for Registered Social Landlords.
regeneration schemes which may also embrace mixed Additionally, the division undertakes refurbishment use elements such as commercial, retail and leisure.
of existing social rented properties as part of the The first regeneration PFI was secured during 2007 Governments Decent Homes programme.
at Miles Platting in Manchester, a project that involves Lovell operates nationally through its network of eight the refurbishment of 1,600 existing properties as well regions, each of which has the capability to carry out as the building of 1,200 homes for open market sale, new build and refurbishment projects.
New build thereby creating a mixed tenure community developments are typically on brown-field sites encompassing both private and public ownership.
and existing estates and have the aim of improving Compendium, the joint venture with Riverside Housing and regenerating whole areas.
Lovells involvement Association has also secured its first scheme at Coalville, in such schemes is from initial design through the Stoke-on-Trent in 2007. planning process, to development and completion The division is based at Tamworth, Staffordshire, operates leaving a legacy of regenerated communities.
through eight regions, and employs 1,500 people.
Around half of the divisions activities are focused on new build housing with a broadly even split between open market and new build social homes.
The balance of the divisions activities is focused predominantly on the improvement of homes as part of the Decent Homes programme which can range 24 77136 FRONT ART.
