QXD 28 2 08 22:26 Page 28 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 The division has built up a track record of successful regeneration projects over the last 20 years.
Muse Developments is a mixed use property development The market as a whole continues to be driven by and urban regeneration business.
It works in partnership Government policy in relation to its support for with both the public sector and also large private employment, regeneration, housing affordability, landowners, whereby its development expertise is applied economic prosperity and social inclusion mix to land assets held by its partners for mutual reward.
Muse Developments business The division has established a track record of successful model and development portfolio is substantially aligned with this approach and its objectives.
regeneration projects over the last 20 years.
Currently Muse Developments has interests in 30 Two of Muse Developments important partnerships projects with a projected future development value of are ISIS Waterside Regeneration ISIS and English 2.6bn.
Around half of these projects are in construction Cities Fund ECf.
ISIS is a limited partnership and, in addition, there are four major regeneration with British Waterways and Morley Fund Management schemes at Doncaster, Swindon, Blackpool and which is focused on the regeneration of land alongside Manchester Victoria where Muse Developments has the UKs canal network.
ECf is a joint venture with been appointed preferred bidder with a potential English Partnerships and Legal & General which is additional value of 1.1bn.
focused on area-wide regeneration initiatives within six major cities across England.
The divisions activities include offices, residential, retail, leisure and distribution development.
From The division has offices in Manchester, Leeds and inception to completion projects take up to 15 years, Surbiton and employs 60 people.
and Muse Developments actively manages schemes from outline design, master planning, detailed planning, development funding, construction procurement, to the letting and or sale of properties and ultimate completion of the regeneration scheme.
