30 Board of Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Mouchel Parkman plc Board of Directors 1 2 high res picture to be placed 3 4 high res picture to be placed high res picture to be placed 56 7 8 31 Board of Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Mouchel Parkman plc 1.
Sir Michael Lyons Chairman 50 Non-Executive Director 58 Richard was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Mouchel in 1998, Sir Michael joined the Board of Parkman Group in June 2001. and was made Chairman in 2001.
He remained Chairman following He was appointed a Non-Executive Director following the merger the merger of Mouchel plc and Parkman Group plc in September of Mouchel plc and Parkman Group plc in September 2003.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He was previously Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Non-Executive Chairman of Public Recruitment Group plc and a founder Nomination Committee.
Sir Michael was appointed Chairman of the director of Capita Group in 1987, where as sales director until 1998 he BBC Trust on 1 May 2007 and recently completed the Lyons Inquiry was responsible for much of Capitas early rapid growth and diversication.
into the functions and funding of local government published March 2007.
Sir Michaels other appointments include Chairman of the 2.
Richard Cuthbert English Cities Fund, and he performs a role as a strategic advisor to Chief Executive 54 the government and a series of companies.
He is also Chairman of the Richard joined Parkman Group as Chief Executive in April 2002 and City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and a Non-Executive Director continued in this role following the merger of Mouchel plc and Parkman of Wragge & Co and SQW Limited.
Previous appointments include: Group plc in September 2003.
Prior to joining Parkman Group plc in Acting Chairman of the Audit Commission former Deputy Chairman, 2002 he was a senior director and a member of the Group Executive Non-Executive Director of Central Independent Television Ltd, at WS Atkins plc.
Richard is a Chartered Civil Engineer with extensive Chief Executive of Birmingham City Council, Chief Executive experience in the management of consultancy and outsourcing of Nottinghamshire County Council, and Chief Executive businesses in the UK and overseas.
of Wolverhampton Metropolitan Borough Council.
Rodney Westhead Group Finance Director 48 Senior Independent Director 63 Kevin joined Mouchel as Finance Director in 1998 and continued in Rodney joined the Board of Parkman Group in June 2001.
He was this role following the merger of Mouchel plc and Parkman Group plc appointed a Non-Executive Director following the merger of Mouchel in September 2003.
Prior to joining Mouchel plc, he was Group Financial plc and Parkman Group plc in September 2003.
He is a member Controller and Finance Director of the Consumer Logistics Division of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination of Transport Development Group.
Kevin is a Chartered Accountant Committee and is the Senior Independent Director.
Rodney is a who qualied and trained with Price Waterhouse.
Non-Executive Director of AEA Technology plc and Transense Technologies plc.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Carter 4.
Ian Knight and Carter Group plc and Clean Air Power Ltd. Rodney was formerly Non-Executive Director 56 Group Chief Executive of Ricardo plc for nine years and a partner Ian joined the Mouchel Board in 2001.
He was appointed a at Grant Thornton.
Rodney is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Non-Executive Director following the merger of Mouchel plc and Accountants in England and Wales.
Parkman Group plc in September 2003.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Debbie Hewitt a Non-Executive Chairman of QDS Environmental Limited and Delta Non-Executive Director 44 Simons Environmental Consultants Limited, and Non-Executive Director Debbie joined Mouchel Parkman as an Advisor to the Board in April 2007 of Morson Group plc and Physiocall Limited.
He was previously Group and was appointed a Director in September 2007.
She is Managing Treasurer of the Yorkshire Water Group from privatisation in 1989 until Director of the RAC where she has worked since 1987.
Prior to joining 1998, when he became Finance and Strategic Development Director the RAC she held various commercial and HR management positions for its non-water subsidiaries, helping to grow these infrastructure at Marks & Spencer.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of Luminar plc businesses both organically and by acquisition.
and the Ofce of Government Commerce, a Director of the Recovery Industry Support Charity, and a member of the Executive Committee of Norwich Union Insurance.
She has previously been a Non-Executive Director of fide Vere plc and Alumasc plc.
Debbie has an MBA with distinction, is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development and a Parish Councillor.
Amanda Massie Group Company Secretary 37 Amanda joined the Group in October 2004.
She was previously Group Company Secretary of WS Atkins plc and a member of their Group Executive.
Prior to WS Atkins, she worked in the City as Company Secretary for a group of insurance companies.
Amanda is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Nomination Committee Member of Group Management Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Additional information on pages 37 and 38.
33 Directors Report 50 Company Cash 36 Corporate Governance Flow Statement Report 51 Company Statement 41 Remuneration Report of Recognised Income 46 Consolidated Income and Expense Statement 52 Independent Auditors Report 47 Group and Company 53 Notes to the Financial Balance Sheets Statements 48 Consolidated Cash 88 Five-year Financial Summary Flow Statement 89 Shareholder Information 49 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
