33 Group Financial Statements Directors Report Report and Accounts 2007 Mouchel Parkman plc Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and audited Financial Directors Statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended Biographical details of the Directors who served on the Board during 31 July 2007. the year and their share interests can be found on page 31 and page 45 respectively.
There were no changes to the Board during the year, Principal activities however, on 3 September 2007, Debbie Hewitt joined the Company Mouchel Parkman plc the Group or Mouchel is a consulting and as a Non-Executive Director.
business services group supporting clients in developing and managing their infrastructure assets.
Services are delivered through three main In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of businesses: Highways, Government Services and Regulated Industries.
Directors must retire and be re-elected at the AGM but, if any Director has at the start of the AGM been in office for three years or more since Business review his last appointment or re-appointment, he shall retire and offer himself The progress of the business during the year and anticipated future for re-election.
developments are discussed in the Chairmans Summary and Business Review on pages 2 to 29 and provide information about the Groups Ian Knight, Sir Michael Lyons, Rodney Westhead and Kevin Young will strategy, its businesses, their financial performance, key performance retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer indicators, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and themselves for re-election.
Debbie Hewitt, having been appointed since likely developments.
the last AGM, will offer herself for election.
The Board considers that the Directors offering themselves for election and re-election continue to The Company has recently undergone a re-branding exercise as a perform effectively and show a strong commitment to the Company result of which it will be seeking shareholder approval at its next Annual and their role.
General Meeting AGM to change its name from Mouchel Parkman plc to Mouchel Group plc.
The Directors believe that the change of name Details of the remuneration of all Directors serving during the financial and the Groups brand will offer the chance to re-emphasise the year and their service contracts are included in the Remuneration Report Groups positioning in the market following the growth and development on pages 41 to 45.
No Director was materially interested in any contract of the business since the creation of Mouchel Parkman in 2003. of significance to the Companys business.
Results and dividends During the year, the Group has maintained cover for its Directors and The Group profit for the financial year after taxation amounted to officers and those of its subsidiary companies under a directors and 34.0 million 2006: 18.5 million.
An interim dividend of 1.55p per officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by section 309 5 of the share was paid on 8 June 2007.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.45p per ordinary share Share capital 2006: 2.70p to be paid on 14 December 2007 to ordinary shareholders During the year, the Companys ordinary share capital increased on the register at the close of business on 16 November 2007.
Total by 1,137,391 as a result of the issue of shares to satisfy exercises dividends relating to the year will amount to 5.00p per share.
under employee share plans and as part consideration in respect of acquisitions.
The ordinary share capital at 31 July 2007 consisted One of the Employee Share Ownership Trust Plans ESOP 2 and the of 109,737,714 Mouchel Parkman plc shares of 0.25p each.
Qualifying Employee Share Trust QUEST waived their entitlement to dividend payments in respect of 2,008,287 shares.
The ESOP and Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company QUEST are owned by the Group.
as at 31 July 2007 and changes during the year are set out in note 25 of the Notes to the Financial Statements on page 75.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies can be Purchase of own shares found in note u of the Accounting policies on page 57 and note 22 of The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase up to 10% the Notes to the Financial Statements.
of its own ordinary shares in the market.
This authority was not used during the year nor in the period to 31 October 2007.
The Board intends to seek shareholder approval to renew the authority at this years AGM.
In accordance with the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003, companies are permitted to hold purchased shares rather than cancelling them.
The Board has no current intention to purchase shares as treasury shares, other than as required for employee share schemes.
34 Group Financial Statements Directors Report Report and Accounts 2007 Mouchel Parkman plc Directors Report continued Substantial shareholders The Group has a diversity and equal opportunities policy and is committed As at 12 October 2007, the Company had been notified of the to providing equal opportunities to all employees and job applicants following voting interests in its ordinary share capital, disclosable irrespective of gender, race, age, religion, disability or sexual orientation.
under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules which replaced part VI of the Companies Act 1985, with effect The Groups policy and practice in respect of disabled persons is to from 20 January 2007 : encourage the recruitment and subsequent training, career development and promotion of disabled persons and the retention and retraining No.
of % of issued of employees who become disabled, on the basis of their aptitude Name of holder ordinary shares share capital and abilities.
Schroder Investment Management Ltd 7,639,051 6.9% BlackRock Investment Management Ltd 7,199,962 6.5% The Group also has a policy of ensuring it offers family-friendly working Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 5,656,914 5.1% arrangements.
We consider requests for individuals to work flexibly to Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 4,615,233 4.2% meet their needs and the needs of the business.
Some people also Standard Life Investments Ltd 4,561,344 4.2% have more formal arrangements in place such as part-time working Old Mutual Asset Management 4,505,700 4.1% and job-sharing.
Our flexible benefits scheme offers childcare vouchers Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 4,234,000 3.9% and the opportunity to extend a number of healthcare benefits to Prudential plc 3,831,911 3.5% employees families.
F&C Asset Management Plc 3,732,625 3.4% Aegon Asset Management 3,644,085 3.3% Learning and development is critical to the success of Mouchel and we have a performance management system that provides a bi-annual Corporate governance opportunity for employees to discuss their progress and identify training A report on corporate governance can be found on pages 36 to 40. needs.
We provide our employees with a wide range of resources to assist with their personal development which results in a mix of formal Corporate Responsibility training, CD-ROM based and online self-learning.
A summary of the Groups Corporate Responsibility CR activities can be found on page 27.
In addition, the Group has produced a separate Charitable and political donations report on CR, which provides more detailed information with respect to During the financial year 2006 07, the Group made charitable the environment, health and safety and employees.
A copy of the report donations of 25,468 to a range of charities, matching an equal will be available on the Companys website.
A further 16,221 was donated to other charities, primarily Business in the Community and the Construction Employees Youth Trust, making total charitable donations for the year of 41,689 As at 31 July 2007, there were 8,168 employees working for the 2006: 18,701.
However, the acquisition of HBS on 6 August 2007 increased the number of employees by approximately 2,700.
The Groups policy Going forward, we have developed a new community involvement is to provide an environment for all employees to fully develop their policy, encouraging our employees to form long-term relationships with individual potential and thereby encourage their contribution to the local charities and focus both volunteering and fundraising on benefiting success of Mouchel.
The Group places considerable value on the the local community.
We believe that these efforts will now have a involvement of its employees and has Investors in People accreditation significant impact and will build on the benefits we are already providing for all its UK offices and sites.
through the Groups contracts with local authorities.
The Group will match both time volunteered and funds raised and we aspire to devote Internal communication is a high priority within the Group and time and resources to the community equivalent to 1% of pre-tax profits.
employees are kept informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the Groups financial performance.
This is achieved through It is the Groups policy not to make political donations in the UK or informal and formal meetings and various communications.
Following overseas and the Group has no intention of making any political the announcement of the Groups final and interim results, staff donations or incurring such expenditure in the future.
However, the presentations are made in various locations across the Group by Political Parties, Elections and Referendum Act the PPER Act defines the senior management team.
There is also an in-house publication, EU political organisation widely.
There is still some uncertainty over MPrint, and the Group uses its intranet, MPortal, to communicate which bodies are covered by the definition and what will be classified as job vacancies, Group policies and other Company news.
The Board will therefore seek authority at the forthcoming AGM for the Company and any company that is or becomes a Staff opinions are sought annually via a confidential staff survey and subsidiary during the period ending on the date of the AGM 2008 to the results of the survey are communicated to staff and action plans incur such political expenditure up to 100,000 in aggregate over the are implemented to make improvements.
next year in order to prevent an inadvertent breach of the PPER Act.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company and this is actively promoted via the Sharesave scheme.
35 Group Financial Statements Directors Report Report and Accounts 2007 Mouchel Parkman plc Research and development The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity During the year, the Group incurred research costs of 750,000 relating of the Groups website.
Information is accessible in many different to a group-wide business transformation system project.
The system countries where legislation governing the preparation and dissemination will be introduced in phases over the course of the next two years, of financial statements may differ from that applicable in the UK.
with phase 1 scheduled for implementation in 2008.
Going concern Post balance sheet events The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern On 6 August 2007, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have of HBS Business Services Group Limited.
Details of events occurring a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources after the balance sheet date can be found in note 35 of the Notes to to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
the Financial Statements on page 86.
Auditors Supplier payment policy Having made enquiries of fellow Directors, each of the Directors who Mouchel Parkman plc is a holding Company and has no trade was a member of the Board at the time of approving the Directors creditors.
Group companies aim to adhere to the payment terms report confirms that to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, agreed with suppliers.
Payments are contingent on the supplier there is no relevant audit information i. e. information needed by the providing goods or services to the required standard, and purchasing Company and Groups Auditors in connection with preparing their is sometimes co-ordinated between Group undertakings.
report of which the Company and Groups Auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as As at 31 July 2007, the Group had an average of 54 days purchases a Director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish owed to trade creditors 2006: 58 days.
This represents the ratio, that the Company and Groups Auditors are aware of that information.
expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Group by its suppliers in the year to the trade creditors at year end.
Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their Statement of Directors responsibilities remuneration will be put to the members at the AGM.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable UK law and Annual General Meeting International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the The AGM of the Company will be held at the offices of ABN Amro, European Union.
3rd Floor Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA on 7 December 2007 at 10.30 am.
The business to be put to the The Directors are required to prepare Financial Statements for each shareholders is detailed in the separate Notice of Meeting financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Company accompanying this report.
and of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Company and of the Group for that period.
The Directors consider that, By order of the Board in preparing the Financial Statements, the Company and the Group have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep proper accounting records which disclose with Amanda Massie reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Group Company Secretary and the Group to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements 31 October 2007 comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
