Home Shopping Delivering the Goods For shareholders that means keeping our promises and exceeding expectations.
For customers it means offering the products they want at attractive prices.
Following a customers order from catalogue to completion shows how N Brown truly delivers the goods at every stage.
co. uk 4 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Chief Executives Review The results for the 52 weeks to 24th February 2007 demonstrate clearly that our home shopping strategy to focus on niche customers and products has been executed successfully with record results from every part of the business.
Group sales were 533.8m, up by 13.9% on last year, and operating profit from continuing businesses increased by 26.5% to 76.4m.
Alan White Chief Executive Home Shopping growth.
Simply Be remains the star German brands.
The business was Home shopping sales rose by 14.0% performer, with sales exceeding 50m acquired in June 2006 for a consideration to 523.8m.
We anticipated a decline for the first time, an increase of over of 9.4m and has since performed to our in the rate of sales growth in the second 30%.
Simply Bes success can be expectations contributing sales of 12m.
half as the year on year comparatives attributed to the provision of fashionable The upmarket fifty plus customer became more demanding but the clothing in all sizes through to size 34 segment is the fastest growing part of momentum built up from the first half and occasionally up to size 38 for the home shopping and Gray & Osbourn in fact strengthened in the second half.
woman in her thirties who finds it hard to complements our acquisition in 2004 of Underlying sales growth of 11.4% for find clothes on the high street to fit her.
House of Bath, which specialises in hard the year was complemented by the These are our highest spending customers to find items for the home and garden.
acquisition of Gray & Osbourn in June and during the year we increased the 2006 which saw sales of 12m during catalogue by 20 pages to accommodate The third group of catalogue brands is the period.
larger ranges of lingerie and footwear, our older group, targeting customers all of which have been well received.
over 65, which contributed sales of The most pleasing aspect of the results 25m, up by 4%, principally through was the increase in sales from all customer The largest and longest established Heather Valley and Special Collection, and product groups together with group comprises our midlife brands representing 5% of total sales.
improved levels of customer service and which are targeted at customers aged real reductions in major operating costs.
between 45-65 and account for 351m, The vast majority of the sales growth has or 67%, of group sales.
Despite the come from our established database of Customer Groups fact these brands are already wellcustomers recruited in previous financial We have seventeen different catalogue established we saw encouraging sales years.
We have a database of over five brands to which we recruit customers, growth of 10%, with particularly strong million customers who have placed an each of them focusing on a particular performances from Ambrose Wilson, order in the last two years and during type of customer or product.
For Oxendales, Fifty Plus and Shapely 2006 7 the number of active customers simplicity we group them by age into Figures.
These customers love to shop rose by 3% and the average spend per younger, midlife and older.
from the comfort of their own home customer rose by 7%.
The remainder from our catalogues which provide a of the sales growth was from newly The younger customer group comprises full range of stylish, yet comfortable, recruited customers who respond to Fashion World, Classic Confidence and clothing and footwear which is available product advertisements or mini-catalogues Simply Be and, in aggregate, sales rose in a wide assortment of sizes and fittings, in womens magazines or the national last year by 16% to 136m, the fastest as well as a targeted range of home and press, or are attracted by our television growth of all the groups, representing leisure merchandise.
In addition we have 26% of group sales.
The highest sales in recruited encouraging levels of new this group are from Fashion World which The latest addition to the midlife group is customers through the internet search serves value conscious customers in Gray & Osbourn, an upmarket ladieswear engines.
The sales from all newly their forties and saw double-digit sales catalogue mainly selling high quality recruited customers rose by 9%.
6 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 WEDNESDAY WEDNESDAY Is that the letterbox?
Ill just take a quick look.
Delivering to all our customers For many of our customers, 60 is the new 40.
As they get older they see no reason to put aside their interest in fashion.
For example, over 15% of sales of an embroidered basque went to customers over 60.
The point is that as our customers get older they still want fashionable, attractive clothing, and look to us to supply it.
We are able to meet this demand for the simple reason that we know what our customers want.
As well as servicing the midlife customers who are interested in more fashionable styles, we are also targeting younger buyers.
For example, we have always sold wide fitting shoes: now we are producing those wider fittings in younger styles.
Chief Executives Review Product Groups a footwear range more suitable for our lower postage costs.
In addition we Ladieswear sales, excluding Gray & younger customers, and the encouraging had an extremely strong Christmas gift Osbourn, increased by 10% to 270m, results mean this range will be expanded catalogue due to increased pagination accounting for 52% of total sales.
Our customers want to dress more fashionably but still comfortably and our We have specifically focused some One of the core features of our business buying team have managed this balance marketing campaigns to encourage is the high number of product options to particularly well this year.
We are subject more of our customers to buy from provide our extensive choice of sizes and to the same fashion trends as the market product areas where they have not fittings.
During the year we increased as a whole so we saw a strong previously done so.
From our experience the number of options by 22% to over performance from casual clothing in the we know the more categories a customer 150,000.
The management of such a first half with the smarter, more tailored purchases from the higher their loyalty large option range within a multiplicity styles prevalent in the second half.
in the future and it is promising that of catalogues, brochures and leaflets, Younger fashion did well on the back these campaigns have been successful.
balancing the need for a high level of of Simply Bes strength and knitwear Currently only 11% of customers buy service with low levels of dormancy performed strongly throughout the year.
from all three of our clothing, lingerie is one of our key skills.
and footwear ranges and there is a We specialise in offering our clothing in strong growth opportunity in the future An encouraging feature of the sales a wide range of sizes such that over half to increase the level of cross-selling.
performance was a 4% increase in the our ladieswear sales are in size 20 or average selling price, after a number of above, sizes which are difficult for high Menswear has continued its upward years of falling prices.
The increase was street chains to manage effectively sales trend with an increase of 9%.
down to the mix of price points, as like and profitably.
The fastest growth came from our for like selling prices were stable.
younger styles and sportswear which We also have an enormous range we have developed to complement Internet of options for corsetry and lingerie.
In order to maintain our position in the For example, we sell bras from size home shopping sector there have been 32A right through to 54K in a selection Sales of home and leisure products significant changes in the ways we of styles and colours which is not grew by 14% to 146m, well above our communicate with our customers in matched by any other retailer.
expectations, and now account for 28% recent years.
The most fundamental We have expanded the styles suitable of total sales.
There were particularly change has been the emergence of for our younger customers which has strong performances from household the internet.
Our online sales rose generated incremental sales growth.
textiles, electrical, furniture, homewares by a further 51% this year to 112m, and gifts.
The success was partially representing 22% of total sales, Wide-fitting footwear sales have seen derived from more pages being allocated compared with 16% last year.
One of the key to home and leisure in the expanded drivers of this growth was introducing mid-season mailings as a result of the What a great top, Id love that.
8 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 WEDNESDAY Ill get some shoes to match.
Delivering what customers really want What sets us apart is our unique customer understanding.
For example when we undertake a promotional email campaign it is based on specific information about the target customers and is carefully designed to address a specific need.
The detailed customer information, together with our analytical skills and our extensive database is the key to giving customers what they want.
Chief Executives Review This increase is due to a number Mailings the conversion of customer demand of factors.
The growth of broadband The mailing of catalogues remains the into net sales.
We delivered a higher level penetration is giving more customers key stimulus to customers ordering of stock availability during the year and the facility to use the internet and whether they use the telephone, online or saw the rate at which customers return whereas young customers were the postal channels.
We have further refined goods reduce by 0.7%, due to improved early adopters we are now seeing our mailing programme this year.
The product quality and fit.
In addition the growth rates which are similar right main branded catalogues had additional introduction of the new behavioural across the age spectrum which pages and increased sales by 7% but it credit scoring systems has reduced the plays very well for our target markets.
was the mid-season mailings which saw proportion of credit rejects.
The benefit We continue to promote the internet to the largest increases from publications of these actions has been reflected in the our customers through prominent display such as Classic Detail, Selections, New lower level of marketing discounts and of the website address on all catalogues Now, Christmas Gifts and the seasonal incentives needed to stimulate sales and and advertisements and offer an Value catalogues.
higher levels of customer satisfaction introductory incentive for them to place reported by our internal surveys.
These mailings are mainly comprised of existing product lines, but by introducing The increased frequency of mailings Once customers go online we continue some new lines and changing catalogue allows the progressive mark down of to see an uplift of about 25% in their formats and photography we can create excess stocks during the season.
This average order value, as they are able a very different feel to the new offer.
resulted in higher in-season discounting to switch seamlessly between all of Overall sales from these mid-season but reduced terminal stocks, leaving total our many websites and access the mailings rose by 16% to 195m.
stock levels at only a similar level to last entire groups product assortment We added more pages into the mailings year on a like for like basis.
as a direct consequence of the new main reason for the 1.2% decline in the Royal Mail pricing structure introduced rate of gross margin is the higher bad In addition we are then able to include in August 2006 which allows larger debt charge resulting from the mix of them in our email marketing campaigns.
catalogues to be mailed cost effectively.
customers and changes to our credit During the year we ran over 200 email These drive a higher response level policies to increase profitable sales, campaigns which generated further and keep our customers more active.
together with reduced VAT relief on incremental demand at a very bad debts.
Incremental sales are also generated by our telemarketing activities on both We have seen significant efficiencies Recruitment of new customers by inbound and outbound calls, and during in our operating costs, especially sponsoring key words in the internet the year sales from these activities rose carriage, marketing and payroll costs, search engine is now a core part of by 20% to 41m.
and this has been the main contributor our recruitment campaigns and there to the 1.0% increase to 14.6% in the is further work we can do to optimise Service and Costs operating margin.
There has been a focus on improving Great, theyre a wide fitting.
0 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Delivering through every channel Last year our online sales grew by 51% to 112m, and since the year end have accounted for 26% of all sales.
Average order values are 25% higher online than for telephone orders.
At the same time changes to the Royal Mails charging structure have reduced postage costs which are being reinvested in larger catalogues or increased mailings.
Lower prices mean we can mail more pages for the same cost or increase our mailing to marginal customers it would otherwise be uneconomical to contact.
Although much of our thinking is geared around the web, actual sales tend to come from online and offline initiatives working in tandem.
What we are seeing is the increasing maturity of our multichannel approach, with the superior quality of a printed catalogues photographs working to create interest which can then be fulfilled quickly and easily online.
Another benefit to using the web is the ease with which we can trial new products online, with proven winners then moving offline to benefit from additional exposure via catalogue.
At the same time, as more incoming orders arrive via the internet instead of the telephone, we are able to redeploy this spare capacity into increased outbound telephone marketing.
Chief Executives Review WEDNESDAY Jaynes order arrives at Our system automatically checks our Manchester call centre.
to see if her goods are in stock.
2 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Delivering behind the scenes Telephone orders are processed at our 1,200 seat call centre in Manchester where they are handled by a customer service advisor.
This state of the art facility employs the latest call routing technology including an innovative voice-to-computer system that enables customers to make payments by voice alone.
The result is a significant improvement in both efficiency and security.
N Brown has resolved to keep its call centre operations firmly in the UK.
We believe the positive publicity and goodwill this generates more than compensate for any cost differences.
Excellent customer service is essential if we are to retain our best customers and we go to great lengths to keep them happy.
Wherever it is appropriate we use the direct telephone contact with customers to cross-sell additional items and services based on their behavioural profile.
Delivering all the flexibility we need All orders ultimately end up as an instruction to pick, pack and dispatch in our distribution centres.
Over the last twelve months these two facilities typically process between 100,000 and 150,000 items per day, employing around 1,000 staff at peak times.
The key feature of these operations is flexibility.
N Browns commitment to customer service means busy times like Easter and Christmas require more resources, so we make sure they are available.
Technology also contributes to our flexibility, with a fully automated sortation process for collatable items like clothing and a semi automated process for non-collatable items such as televisions.
WEDNESDAY Jaynes order is processed and a picking State of the art technology speeds note created automatically.
the pick, pack and dispatch process.
Chief Executives Review Infrastructure winning new business from a strong the days when we merely replicated We have made a number of significant client prospect list.
our catalogues online, to one where it improvements to our operating is the testing ground for new concepts.
The 17m development of Current Trading and Prospects our second distribution centre at Hadfield The growth trends established in 2006 The demographic trends for the has seen one new warehouse completed have continued into 2007, with group customer population over 40 are very before Christmas and two others sales for the 10 weeks to 5th May 2007 favourable and we believe we are wellconstructed for commissioning in the up by 17.9%, or 14.0% on a like for like placed to deliver the appropriate products first half of 2007, including a bespoke basis.
This growth is spread across all to the different segments of this group hanging garments warehouse.
Additional the customer and products groups and through a portfolio of existing and new call centre capacity has been secured the business has continued to increase catalogues which will appeal to both with an outsourced facility in Scotland the volume and variety of catalogues the value conscious and the upmarket and our call centre in Manchester has distributed.
We will endeavour to increase had upgrades applied to all of the major our market share through a wide operating equipment.
In August 2006 we We have a number of initiatives to widen assortment of recruitment techniques transferred the management of our selfthe appeal of our catalogues whilst which should increase our active employed courier network, who deliver continuing to develop our core selling customer database as well as driving about two-thirds of all our customer propositions.
We recently launched higher sales per customer.
orders, to TNT Post as part of a 10-year Simply Living which is a more distribution agreement which should contemporary home and leisure offer for I am confident that our strategy has result in improved services at an our younger customers.
In March 2007 the ability to deliver further growth in attractive price.
we commissioned a television advertising the current financial year which will be and media campaign to promote the for the 53 weeks to 1st March 2008.
The new generation of websites with launch of Simply Yours, with the strapline many enhanced features are currently the above average underwear under development and will start to be company targeting the younger, larger deployed throughout 2007. but more affluent customer for our corsetry and lingerie ranges.
Zendor Zendor, which provides home shopping We are increasing the range of products services to other retailers, increased its available to our online customers, Alan White revenues by 9.9% to 10.0m and including our version of fast fashion produced an operating profit of 0.1m, which will see twenty new lines promoted compared with a loss of a similar amount exclusively on the internet in May 2007, last year.
We have invested in additional although they may be included in the warehouse facilities, which will be further catalogues later in the year.
The internet expanded during 2007, in readiness for model has changed dramatically from THURSDAY With the order complete TNT The local courier, often well known and deliver the items to a local courier.
trusted by customers, makes the final delivery.
4 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 THURSDAY Knock knock, sign here please.
Delivering to our customers door Completed orders are dispatched from our warehouses via TNTs delivery network.
Working with a strategic partner like TNT makes sense from both an economic and efficiency point of view their core competence in logistics and delivery enables N Brown to concentrate on our core competence of home shopping.
TNT then deliver to a nationwide network of local selfemployed couriers who take the parcels to the customers home.
This arrangement has several advantages local couriers have local knowledge and often become well known in their area.
In fact we encourage them to build strong relationships with our customers.
As far as the customer is concerned these couriers are the face of N Brown, so building trust through a reliable, efficient service is essential.
This arrangement also works in reverse if a customer needs to return an item then their local courier is the place that process starts.
THURSDAY Cant wait to try it on.
Delivering to every part of our market As well as providing our more fashion conscious customers with the high style garments they demand, we have not abandoned customers who want more traditional clothing.
Our broad-based approach means we now have a portfolio of brands, from Simply Be aimed at buyers in their 30s, to Special Collection targeted at people in their 70s.
As well as covering a spectrum of ages, we also cover different socio-economic groups, from ABC orientated Gray & Osbourn, to C2D focused Fashion World.
The point is simple: we cater for all customer groups, both conservative and contemporary, with equal enthusiasm.
Filling gaps in the High Streets offering and servicing the market for older and or larger customers continues to be a successful strategy which still has further growth opportunities.
Delivering real satisfaction We know what gives our customers a feeling of real satisfaction great looking clothes that make them feel fantastic.
To make that happen we size our products to reflect our customers figures, with options for wider calves, shorter leg lengths, larger bust sizes and wider fitting shoes.
Larger size clothes that look fantastic are a core N Brown market which well continue to put at the heart of our business.
Then theres the issue of age.
Two thirds of our business still comes from where it always has our midlife customers aged between 45-65.
The fastest growth is still from our younger customers, under 45 years of age, with targeted product ranges.
These have an important halo effect, with our older audiences seeing these clothes and wanting to look good for longer.
In short, customers of every age trust us to deliver the sort of goods they want at a price that suits their budget.
Just right for Debbies 40th tonight!
Financial Review The 52 weeks to 24 February 2007 was a record year for the group reflecting the successful continuation of our strategy to develop the core home shopping business.
As a result group sales exceeded the prior year by 13.9% to achieve 533.8m.
Dean Moore Finance Director Group Trading Summary primarily due to a declared 79.9m return On a pro-forma basis gearing would rise Group operating profit for the same period of value to shareholders referred to below.
to 98% after the return of value and the amounted to 76.4m 2006, 60.4m and Total capital expenditure for the year was first additional payment to the pension was achieved despite a 1.3% reduction in 20.9m of which 10m was invested in scheme was paid in March 2007. gross margin arising from a higher charge the Hadfield warehousing facility and 8m for bad debts, in season discounting was spent on developing website and call Key Performance Indicators and product mix.
Additional reductions in centre systems.
These investments have The directors use a number of key distribution and marketing costs more than and will continue to generate operational performance indicators KPIs to monitor offset this shortfall, increasing the group savings.
Excluding the stock we acquired the progress of the group, including: operating margin to 14.3%, compared with with Gray and Osbourn, there has been 12.9% last year.
no increase in stock levels in the year - Like for like sales see page 6. as the benefits of in season discounting - Internet sales see page 8.
During the year, House of Stirling, our were realised.
- The number of customer debtor accounts door-to-door selling business was closed and their average debtor balance, down and its debtor book sold for 5.6m Trade debtors at the year end were which at the year end was 1,467,000 and consequently accounted for as a 343.4m compared to 310.4m last year 2006, 1,412,000 and 234 2006, 215 discontinued operation.
Gray and reflecting the buoyant trading.
Osbourn Limited contributed 0.4m increased due to the growth of the younger - Mix of sales by product and customer of operating profit since its acquisition titles and mix of customers.
groups see pages 6 to 8. on 30 June 2006.
The groups defined benefit pension - Operating margin see page 10.
Profit before taxation amounted to 65.4m scheme deficit fell to 27.7m 2006, 2006, 54.1m, despite a loss of 2.4m 34.4m following the 2006 actuarial Risks and Uncertainties 2006, 1.7m gain in respect of fair value valuation.
As part of the return of value There are a number of risks and movements on the groups forward foreign to shareholders, the group has agreed uncertainties, which could have an impact currency contracts and a rise in net finance to make additional payments to the on the groups long-term performance.
charges to 8.6m 2006, 8.0m on higher scheme over the next four years.
They include the potential threat from net debt.
our competitors: our relationship with Net cash generated from operating key suppliers: the loss of key personnel: Taxation activities fell from 71.3m to 42.8m potential disruption to our key information The effective rate of corporation tax for primarily due to the growth in trade systems, warehousing or call centre facilities the year is 28.3% 2006, 28.6% as we debtors and higher corporation tax arising from events beyond our control such continue to benefit from lower overseas paid.
Continual investment in the fixed as fire or other issues which could have tax rates and tax planning.
asset infrastructure together with the a detrimental impact on sales and profit: purchase of Gray and Osbourn for changes to the regulatory environment Balance Sheet and Cash Flow 7.3m, increased net debt in the that the business operates under, primarily Net assets within the business have fallen year to 104.0m 2006, 92.9m regulated by the Financial Services from 246.0m to 202.5m at the year end and gearing to 51% 2006, 38%.
Authority and the Office of Fair Trading.
8 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Operating Profit Earnings Per Share p Net Assets m Continuing Operations m 76.4 5.89 246.0 244.3 242.4 230.1 13.16 13.11 60.4 12.02 202.5 55.3 54.5 10.48 44.1 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Excluding operating exceptional items: Results presented under IFRS from 2005, 2005, 22.5m: 2004, 17.5m previously UK GAAP The directors routinely monitor all these This hedging activity involves the use At the same time an agreement was risks and uncertainties and appropriate of spot, forward and option contracts.
reached with the group pension trustees actions are taken to mitigate these risks, At the year end the group had outstanding and the pension regulator to increase the such as having business continuity forward foreign exchange contract contributions towards the funding deficit in procedures in place, a dedicated team commitments of $61m 2006, $52m.
the pension scheme over the next 4 years.
assessing regulatory developments, A one-off contribution of 15m was paid ensuring we treat our customers fairly Accounting Standards in March 2007, which will be followed by and hosting regular reviews with all of and Going Concern three further contributions of 4m per our strategic partners.
The board are Group accounting policies reflect current annum for three years, with the final also committed to continually invest in professional standards and related payment in 2010 being subject to the updating its systems and infrastructure guidelines issued by the International results of the actuarial valuation in 2009. to keep a pace with new technology.
Accounting Standards Board and are prepared in accordance with International The share price of 201.5p at the start of Treasury Financial Reporting Standards as adopted the year had risen to 334.5p at the year Funding arrangements have been for use in the EU.
end giving a market capitalisation of set to adequately support the ongoing 895.5m 2006, 595.2m up by 50.5%.
trading and development activity of Having made appropriate enquiries and A final dividend of 5.34p per share has the group.
Borrowing requirements having continued to operate an appropriate been recommended by the board and are provided by a 200m securitisation risk management process during the year, represents an increase of 20% on the facility arranged by HSBC Bank plc, the directors are pleased to report that previous year giving a total dividend for which has recently been renewed for adequate resources exist to enable the the year of 7.53p per share, also up by a further five years to 2012.
During the group to operate for the foreseeable future.
year the group also entered into two A going concern basis adopted in the new five-year loan facilities of 50m preparation of the accounts is therefore each with HSBC Bank plc and The considered appropriate.
Royal Bank of Scotland plc primarily in order to finance the payments under Shareholders Return and the return of value to shareholders.
Share Capital Consolidation All the current facilities are arranged at In February 2007 the group completed floating interest rates.
Where appropriate, a share capital reorganisation of 19 new Dean Moore exposure to interest rate fluctuations ordinary shares for every 21 existing on indebtedness is managed by using ordinary shares and also provided for a derivatives such as interest rate swaps.
return of value to shareholders equivalent to 27p per ordinary share amounting to Anticipated foreign exchange requirements 79.9m, which was paid in March 2007. for the purchase of stocks denominated The number of shares in issue at the year in US dollars are hedged for up to three end was 267.7m compared to 295.4m years ahead to fix the cost of sterling.
N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 9
