Directors Report The directors present their report and shares of the company on 5 January 2007. shown on page 20.
In accordance with accounts for the 52 weeks ended 24 The net cost of this dividend was 6.5m the provisions of the Combined Code February 2007.
2003 those non executive directors who have served a term of more than 9 years The directors recommend a final dividend Activities and results on the board will be subject to annual of 5.34p per share 2006, 4.45p for the The principal activities of the group are re-election.
Those affected by such a 52 weeks ended 24 February 2007, retailing through direct home shopping, provision are, Lord Alliance of Manchester the net cost of which will be 14.3m fulfilment and financial services.
The CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE and Ivan Fallon.
The dividend will be activities are more fully explained in the Accordingly they will retire at the next paid on 27 July 2007. chief executives review on pages 6 to annual general meeting and, being eligible, 17.
Group profit before taxation from Movements in reserves are shown in offer themselves for reappointment at that continuing operations for the 52 weeks note 27 on page 60. meeting.
ended 24 February 2007 amounted to In addition, in accordance with the Articles 65.4m 2006, 54.1m.
No geographical Acquisitions and disposals of Association of the company Dean segmentation is provided as, apart from a On 30 June 2006 the group acquired the Moore and John McGuire will retire at the small operation in the Republic of Ireland, entire share capital of Gray & Osbourn next annual general meeting and being all activities take place in the United Limited for 9.4m.
In July 2006 the group eligible, offer themselves for reappointment Kingdom.
sold the debtor book of its door-to-door at the meeting.
selling business House of Stirling for 5.6m Enhanced Business Review and the operation ceased trading.
Details of directors interests beneficial and The company is required to set out in this non-beneficial in shares of the company report a fair review of the business of the Share capital are given in the remuneration report on group during the financial year ended Details of the companys authorised and page 37 and are deemed to be incorporated 24 February 2007 and the position of issued share capital are shown in note into this report by this cross-reference.
the group at the end of that period.
23 on page 58, together with details of The company is also required to set the return of value paid in March 2007.
Directors and officers liabilities out a description of the principal risks The group maintains insurance for Details of outstanding share options are and uncertainties facing the group.
directors and officers of the group, shown in note 33 on page 62.
The information fulfilling the above indemnifying them against certain liabilities requirements can be found within this incurred by them whilst acting on behalf of Annual general meeting report and within the chief executives the group.
The annual general meeting is to be held review and financial review which are on 17 July 2007.
The notice convening Major shareholders deemed to be incorporated in this the annual general meeting is being sent In addition to the directors shareholdings report by this cross-reference.
to members by way of separate circular shown in the remuneration report on page The board monitors a number of financial together with full explanatory notes on 37, the directors are aware of the following and non-financial Key Performance Indicators each resolution to be proposed at the shareholdings of 3 per cent or more of the and these are detailed on page 18. meeting.
issued share capital at 30 April 2007: Dividends and reserves Directors An interim dividend of 2.19p per share The biographies of the directors, all of 2006, 1.82p was paid on the ordinary whom served throughout the year are Holding % of issued share capital Fidelity Investment Services Ltd Europe 18,927,223 7.1 Standard Life Investments Ltd 15,997,452 6.0 Aberforth Partners 9,845,679 3.7 The directors are not aware of any other holders of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital.
22 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Ethical and social issues hospitality with a value of 25 or more, used by the group.
The group has recently In February 2007 the ABI published offered, accepted or declined.
commissioned the production of a Carbon Responsible Investment Disclosure Footprint analysis to determine the groups The group has drawn up and issued a Guidelines intended to replace the Socially impact on the environment.
comprehensive whistleblowing policy Responsible Investment Guidelines 2001. providing employees with an appropriate As the new guidelines were published Employees means of communication in case of ethical towards the end of the companys reporting - Employee involvement.
The group firmly concerns regarding the way the group year, this report has been prepared on the believes that continuing success can only operates in its day-to-day activities.
basis of the old Socially Responsible be achieved by an enthusiastic, motivated Investment Guidelines.
It is the intention and well-trained workforce.
Consequently, Environment to prepare future reports in line with the considerable resources are devoted to The group recognises its environmental new Responsible Investment Disclosure staff training.
Departmental team briefings responsibilities and is committed to Guidelines.
are held and a staff attitude survey is minimising any damage which its activities conducted regularly.
Over 500 group may cause to the environment.
It has Ethics employees either hold shares in the delegated specific responsibility for The board regards achievement and company or have options awards to environmental matters to a nominated maintenance of the highest ethical acquire them through the groups various director on each of its principal subsidiary standards in business as an essential share option and long-term incentive boards.
In addition, it actively pursues a feature in the way in which the group schemes.
number of environmental policies, including conducts its business.
A code of ethical those designed to contain energy costs, The company has worked with Dale conduct dealing with commercial the recycling of paper and packaging Carnegie to produce a tailor-made standards, conflicts of interest, gifts and materials wherever practical and the use Leadership Development programme, hospitality has been circulated to all staff.
of information technology systems to from which more than 100 of our managers All directors and employees of the group reduce the level of consumption of paper have benefited in the past three years.
are required to comply with both the letter by its employees.
In 1994 the Government Raising the bar for our more junior and the spirit of the code of ethical conduct in consultation with Europe adopted an managers and specialist employees is in all their dealings on behalf of the group environmental policy EC Packaging Waste achieved through Management Modules and directors and senior staff are required Directive 94 62 EC, which required larger a suite of a dozen distinct workshops to file an electronic return detailing companies to recover and recycle the that allow employee delegates to perfect compliance with the policy on gifts and packaging waste that they put into the their talents in specific skill areas.
The group was one of the These workshops often incorporate In their dealings with each other, other first organisations to join the Valpak the Myers Briggs Type Indicator, which group companies and their shareholders, Organisation, which, with the endeavours help employees gain an unprecedented customers, suppliers, competitors with of its members and their combined understanding of how they interact with regulatory authorities and the wider financial contributions, has succeeded in their peers and their teams.
Our employees community, employees are required to: building a national sustainable recovery are free to undertake any of these modules, and recycling infrastructure.
meaning that they are truly empowered conduct all dealings with honesty, to take charge of their own management integrity and fairness: The groups complement of skilled packaging development.
technologists look at every product sold comply with all relevant laws, regulations within the group to ensure its compliance - Consultation.
Constructive relationships and internal company policy: to European Environmental Law with with the trade unions which represent its encourage and support a business particular emphasis on the Pack Minimisation employees principally USDAW and SATA culture which exhibits and promotes Essential Requirements 1998 Regulations.
Elements of the group are ethical conduct at all levels within the covered by a collective bargaining All packaging components are made from organisation: and arrangement with USDAW.
materials and processes causing minimum avoid any situation or action which could harm to the environment when either - Equal Opportunities.
The group supports cause damage to the groups reputation.
manufactured, processed, recycled or the principle of equal opportunities in eventually disposed of.
All of the groups employment and is opposed to all forms Directors of all group companies will be paper packaging is made from a minimum of discrimination, including those on the required to disclose details of related party of 75% recycled paper and all other paper grounds of colour, race, nationality, ethnic transactions for review by the audit is sourced from 100% recyclable papers.
or national origin, religion, gender, age, committee.
Wherever practically possible packaging sexual orientation, marital status or A register of gifts and benefits offered by, materials and processes are derived from disability.
and to, suppliers and other parties whether managed and renewable sources.
The Our selection processes for recruitment, accepted or declined is maintained under majority of the paper used by the group in promotion, training and development are the control of the head of internal audit.
its publications comes from such sources.
We believe it is in the Summary information is presented to the The group will continue to search out new best interests of employees and the group groups audit committee.
All employees, ways of reducing our packaging impact on to provide these opportunities to the most managers and directors are required, each the environment by adopting a cradle to suitable candidates.
month, to declare any offer of gifts or grave view on all packaging products N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 23 Directors Report Applications for employment by disabled Suppliers Pension fund persons are always fully considered, The group sources products and services The group continues to ensure that the bearing in mind the aptitudes of the from across the world.
A significant N Brown Group Pension Fund is managed applicant concerned.
In the event of any proportion of this expenditure is with in accordance with best practice and employee becoming disabled, every effort suppliers with whom the group has a longcurrent legislation, including the Pensions is made to ensure that their employment term relationship, which helps to provide Act 1995.
The funds assets are administered with the group continues and that a continually improving quality of product by a trustee company which is controlled appropriate training is arranged.
It is the and service to customers, whilst reducing by a board of directors, all of whom have policy of the group that the training, career costs.
a vested interest in the performance of the development and promotion of disabled fund, representing the interests of pension It is the groups policy to comply with the persons should, as far as possible, be fund members, pensioners and N Brown terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
identical to that of other employees.
The funds investments are Trade creditors of the group at 24 February managed by Aberdeen Management Each year the group rewards and 2007 represented 34 days 2006, 38 days Limited and Legal and General Assurance recognises significant contribution from of purchases.
Pensions Management Limited and the its customer contact centre staff by The group is aware of the potential social actuarial and administration services are inviting them to compete for a nomination impact of its business dealings, particularly provided by Mercer Human Resource to receive an award for outstanding in developing countries.
The award ceremony is terms and conditions for the purchase of a Red-Carpet event which is well received The N Brown Group Pension Fund was all goods for resale require that, in relation by all staff who are nominated for an award.
closed to new entrants with effect from to the manufacture of merchandise, the 31 January 2002.
New employees joining - Health and safety.
The groups policy supplier warrants that all labour, safety the group after 31 January 2002, and is to adhere to all relevant legislation to and other relevant laws in the country of existing employees who had not joined ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, manufacture will be strictly observed with the N Brown Group Pension Fund as at the health, safety and welfare at work of respect to all workers at all stages of that date, are entitled to join a stakeholder all employees and of other people working production.
pension scheme providing a defined on our premises but not employed by contribution pension arrangement, Community the group.
We endeavour to ensure administered by Prudential Stakeholder The group believes that it has a that products and services used in the Pensions.
responsibility to invest in the communities workplace or sold by us are designed in which it operates.
The family, health and so that they are safe and without risk Financial risk management, objectives well-being programme launched in 2003 when properly used.
Pre-employment and policies providing additional benefits for all our questionnaires, physiotherapy, audiometry, The group is exposed to certain financial employees is actively supported and an improved management referral process risks, namely interest rate risk, currency continues.
The group maintains close links and rehabilitation programs have enabled risk and credit risk.
Information regarding with the Christie Hospital in Manchester, occupational health issues to be better such financial risks is detailed in notes 18, the Marie Curie Foundation and the Retail controlled.
The groups risk management Trust.
The group encourages staff to Cumulative group accident statistics for policies and procedures are also discussed participate in fundraising activities for the last 6 months immediately prior to the in the financial review.
these, and other, worthwhile causes publication of this report show a 52% and maximises the potential donation reduction on the same period last year, Tax status by matching the level of many raised with both reportable accidents and days The company is not a close company by employees to double the size of the lost through accident showing month-onwithin the meaning of the Income and donation.
In the last financial year, via this method, Customers more than 66,000 was raised for Auditors One of the key factors of the groups noteworthy causes such as Cancer UK A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche success is the quality of its relationship and MacMillan Nurses.
Recently the group LLP as auditors to the company and to with its customers.
Regular customer has agreed to start donating its redundant authorise the directors to fix their satisfaction surveys are conducted, both IT equipment to charities operating in third remuneration will be proposed at the directly and through third parties, to world and developing countries.
annual general meeting on 17 July 2007. ensure that the group closely monitors Charitable and political donations the opinions and requirements of its Directors responsibilities During the year, the group made charitable customers.
In addition, telephone enquiry The directors are responsible for preparing donations of 52,371 2006, 39,593. and complaint calls received from the annual report and the financial No political donations have been made.
customers are analysed and appropriate statements.
The directors are required to action taken to improve the levels of prepare financial statements for the group service offered to them.
in accordance with International Financial 24 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Reporting Standards IFRS and have The directors are responsible for keeping chosen to prepare company financial proper accounting records which disclose statements in accordance with United with reasonable accuracy at any time the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting financial position of the company, for Practice UK GAAP.
Company law requires safeguarding the assets, for taking the directors to prepare such financial reasonable steps for the prevention and statements in accordance with IFRS, UK detection of fraud and other irregularities GAAP, the Companies Act 1985 and Article and for the preparation of a directors 4 of the IAS Regulation.
report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Companies Act 1985. directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial period which The directors are responsible for the give a true and fair view of the state of maintenance and integrity of the company affairs of the company and of the profit website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom or loss of the company for that period.
governing the preparation and In preparing these financial statements, dissemination of financial statements may the directors are required to: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and Each of the directors at the date of then apply them consistently: approval of this report confirms that:- make judgements and estimates that So far as the director is aware, there is no are reasonable and prudent: and relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a director In the case of IFRS accounts, International to make themselves aware of any relevant Accounting Standard 1 requires that audit information and to establish that the financial statements present fairly for companys auditors are aware of that each financial year the companys financial information.
position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation This confirmation is given and should be of the effects of transactions, other events interpreted in accordance with the and conditions in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZZA of the definitions and recognition criteria for Companies Act 1985. assets, liabilities, income and expenses By order of the board set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor preparation and Presentation of Financial Secretary Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by 25 May 2007 compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 25
