38 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 12 Board of Directors and Company Secretary 34 1 David Ross Chairman 2 Richard Bowker CBE Chief Executive 3 Adam Walker Finance Director 56 4 Ray OToole Chief Executive UK Division 5 Sir Andrew Foster Non Executive Director 6 Barry Gibson Non Executive Director 7 Roger Devlin Non Executive Director 8 Jorge Cosmen Non Executive Director 9 Tim Score 78 Non Executive Director 10 Tony McDonald Company Secretary 910 39 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 1 David Ross 6 Barry Gibson DIVISIONAL HEADS Chairman Non Executive Director # David Ross joined the Board in February 2001 Barry Gibson joined the Board in November Ray OToole as a Non Executive Director and became 1999 and became the Senior Independent Chief Executive UK Division Chairman in May 2004.
In 1991 he founded Director in September 2005.
He served on the Ray OTooles details are shown opposite.
and is currently Non Executive Deputy Board at BAA plc as Group Retailing Director.
Javier Carbajo Chairman of The Carphone Warehouse Until October 2001 he was the Group Chief Chief Executive Alsa Group Group PLC.
He is a Non Executive Director Executive of Littlewoods Organisation plc.
Javier Carbajo joined the Group in December of Big Yellow Group PLC and Cosalt PLC and He is also a Non Executive Director of William 2005 when National Express acquired Alsa.
is a Board Member of the Olympic Lottery Hill PLC and Homeserve plc.
A graduate in economics and with an MBA, Distributor.
In 2006 he was appointed a Trustee 7 Roger Devlin he has been with Alsa for 28 years during of the National Portrait Gallery and is the main Non Executive Director # which time he has held management positions sponsor for Havelock Academy in Grimsby.
Roger Devlin was appointed to the Board in most areas of the business.
In 1999 he was David is a chartered accountant.
Roger spent 13 years as appointed Chief Executive of Enatcar following 2 Richard Bowker CBE a Director of Hill Samuel where he was head its acquisition by Alsa.
In 2003 he was Chief Executive of Mergers and Acquisitions and Chief appointed CEO of Alsa Group.
Richard Bowker was appointed to the Executive of their US investment banking Brian Stock Board as Chief Executive in September operations.
He then moved to Ladbrokes, later Chief Executive North America 2006.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Hilton PLC, as Group Corporate Development Brian Stock joined the Group in 2002 through Partnerships for Schools PfS, a government Director.
He left Hilton in 2006 and now chairs the acquisition of Stock Transportation.
He has body responsible for delivering the Building three private equity businesses on behalf overseen the North American student bus Schools for the Future Investment Programme.
of Permira and Advent, all active in the leisure operations since March 2004 and was Between December 2001 and September and hospitality fields.
He is also Senior appointed as Chief Executive of the Groups 2004 he was Chairman and Chief Executive Independent Director of RPS Group plc, North American operations in October 2004. of the Strategic Rail Authority.
Prior to that Europes leading environmental consultancy.
Brian has had over 25 years experience in he was Group Commercial Director of Virgin Aged 50. the bus industry.
Prior to joining the Group, Group and Co-chairman of Virgin Rail.
8 Jorge Cosmen Brian was President of Stock Transportation Richard is a chartered management Non Executive Director and responsible for guiding the business to accountant and a Non Executive Director Jorge Cosmen was appointed to the Board become the fifth largest school bus company of British Waterways.
Aged 42. in December 2005 at the time of the Alsa in North America.
He was Corporate Manager for Finance Director the Alsa Group from 1995, becoming Chairman Adam Walker joined the Board in March 2003, in 1999.
Between 1986 and 1995 he worked as Finance Director.
He joined the Group in in sales, distribution and banking.
He is a October 2001 as Corporate Development Business Administration graduate and has Director working closely with the Groups an International MBA from the Instituto fide operational subsidiaries on developing their Empresa in Madrid.
Prior to joining the Group 9 Tim Score he was Director of Corporate Finance at Non Executive Director # Arthur Andersen and an Associate Director Tim Score was appointed to the Board in at NatWest Markets.
He is Chief Financial Officer accountant.
Before joining ARM he 4 Ray OToole worked as Finance Director of Rebus Group Chief Executive UK Division Limited which he joined in 1999.
Between Ray OToole joined the Board in November 1997 and 1999, he was Group Finance 1999 as Chief Operating Officer.
From January Director of William Baird plc, which he joined 2008 Ray became Chief Executive of all our UK from LucasVarity plc.
He spent the early part of his career accountant.
Aged 47. in various engineering management positions 10 Tony McDonald at Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Company Secretary Executive.
He joined National Express from Tony McDonald was appointed Company FirstGroup plc, where he was responsible for its Secretary in May 2000.
Prior to joining the operations in Yorkshire and the North West as Group he held senior legal positions with both Divisional Director and Group Engineering the in-house legal teams at Guardian Royal Director.
He is a Member of the British Exchange and BP and in private practice with Transport Police Authority.
Non Executive Director Sir Andrew was appointed to the Board in August 2004.
He has had an extensive career in the public sector having served as Chief Member of the Audit Committee Executive of the Audit Commission for England Member of the and Wales between 1992 and 2003.
Before Nomination Committee this he was Deputy Chief Executive of the NHS # Member of the and is currently Deputy Chairman of the Royal Remuneration Committee Bank of Canada Europe Limited, Chairman Member of the Safety and of the Commonwealth Games Council for Environment Committee England and a Non Executive Director of the Sports Council, Nestor Health Care and PruHealth.
Sir Andrew has also recently completed reviews of further education and athletics for the Government.
