About regulatory accounting statements About regulatory accounting statements Relationship of regulatory accounting statements with statutory National Grid Gas plc is the holder of two gas transporter licences: one in respect of its gas accounts transmission NTS business and one in respect of its gas distribution network DN The financial information contained in these regulatory accounting statements does not businesses.
Under Standard Special Condition A30 of each of these licences, National Grid constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985.
Gas plc is required to prepare and publish annual regulatory accounting statements setting out Statutory accounts for National Grid Gas plc for the year ended 31 March 2007, to which the the financial position and performance of each of the regulatory businesses covered by that financial information relates, have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies.
The Auditors have made a report under Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 on those These DN regulatory accounting statements are in respect of National Grid Gass DN statutory accounts which was unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section 237 2 businesses, including its gas metering businesses.
National Grid Gas also prepares and or 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The auditors opinion on the National Grid Gas plc statutory publishes regulatory accounting statements in respect of its NTS business, including its LNG accounts is addressed to, and for the benefit of, the members of National Grid Gas plc and not storage business.
Together, these two sets of regulatory accounting statements must comprise for any other person or purpose.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their opinion on those all the businesses and activities of National Grid Gas, except for the four gas distribution statutory accounts, that it has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a networks which National Grid Gas sold on 1 June 2005. body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
In giving their opinion, they do not accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any Reconciliations between certain financial information included in these DN regulatory other person to whom their audit report on the statutory accounts is shown or into whose hands accounting statements and the equivalent financial information for National Grid Gas as a it may come save where expressly agreed by their prior consent in writing.
whole, are provided in note 2 to these DN regulatory accounting statements.
The statutory accounts of National Grid Gas plc can be obtained from the Company Secretarys Scope of DN regulatory accounting statements Office, National Grid plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
These DN regulatory accounting statements are in respect of the following regulatory businesses of National Grid Gas plc: Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements the Distribution Networks DNs : These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary apportionments of certain revenues, the metering business: costs, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity which are not specifically attributable to the the meter reading business: and businesses and activities reported in these regulatory accounting statements, but which, fide-minimis and other activities associated with these businesses nevertheless, are required by the gas transporter licence under which these regulatory accounting statements are prepared, to be reported against those businesses and activities.
These regulatory businesses are collectively the gas distribution and metering businesses.
Further details of these items are provided in the Basis of preparation on page 38.
Further information about these businesses can be found on page 7 of the Operating and The bases used to allocate the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity of financial review.
National Grid Gas to the businesses reported on in these regulatory accounting statements have been determined in accordance with the requirements of the gas transporter licence under National Grid Gass NTS business, LNG storage business and associated fide-minimis and other which these regulatory accounting statements have been prepared.
These bases may differ activities are reported in the separate NTS regulatory accounting statements.
from those used to determine the segmental analysis provided in the annual report and accounts of National Grid Gas plc.
The regulatory businesses reported on in regulatory accounting statements are defined in accordance with the gas transporter licence under which the regulatory accounting statements are prepared and differ in some respects from the business definitions used in National Grid Gass annual report and accounts.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 1
