About regulatory accounting statements About regulatory accounting statements Relationship of regulatory accounting statements with statutory National Grid Gas plc is the holder of two gas transporter licences: one in respect of its gas accounts transmission NTS business and one in respect of its gas distribution network DN The financial information contained in these regulatory accounting statements does not businesses.
Under Standard Special Condition A30 of each of these licences, National Grid constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985.
Gas plc is required to prepare and publish annual regulatory accounting statements setting out Statutory accounts for National Grid Gas plc for the year ended 31 March 2007, to which the the financial position and performance of each of the regulatory businesses covered by that financial information relates, have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies.
The Auditors have made a report under Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 on those These NTS regulatory accounting statements are in respect of National Grid Gass NTS statutory accounts which was unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section 237 2 businesses, including its LNG storage business.
National Grid Gas also prepares and publishes or 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The auditors opinion on the National Grid Gas plc statutory regulatory accounting statements in respect of its DN business, including its metering accounts is addressed to, and for the benefit of, the members of National Grid Gas plc and not businesses.
Together, these two sets of regulatory accounting statements must comprise all the for any other person or purpose.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their opinion on those businesses and activities of National Grid Gas, except for the four gas distribution networks statutory accounts, that it has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a which National Grid Gas sold on 1 June 2005. body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
In giving their opinion, they do not accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any Reconciliations between certain financial information included in these DN regulatory other person to whom their audit report on the statutory accounts is shown or into whose hands accounting statements and the equivalent financial information for National Grid Gas as a it may come save where expressly agreed by their prior consent in writing.
whole, are provided in note 2 to these NTS regulatory accounting statements.
The statutory accounts of National Grid Gas plc can be obtained from the Company Secretarys Scope of NTS regulatory accounting statements Office, National Grid plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
These NTS regulatory accounting statements are in respect of the following regulatory businesses of National Grid Gas plc: Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements the NTS business: These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary apportionments of certain revenues, the LNG storage business: and costs, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity which are not specifically attributable to the fide-minimis and other activities associated with these businesses businesses and activities reported in these regulatory accounting statements, but which, nevertheless, are required by the gas transporter licence under which these regulatory These regulatory businesses are collectively the gas transmission businesses.
accounting statements are prepared, to be reported against those businesses and activities.
Further details of these items are provided in the Basis of preparation on page 37.
Further information about these businesses can be found on page 7 of the Operating and financial review.
The bases used to allocate the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity of National Grid Gas to the businesses reported on in these regulatory accounting statements National Grid Gass DN businesses, metering business, meter reading business and associated have been determined in accordance with the requirements of the gas transporter licence under fide-minimis and other activities are reported in the separate DN regulatory accounting which these regulatory accounting statements have been prepared.
These bases may differ statements.
from those used to determine the segmental analysis provided in the annual report and accounts of National Grid Gas plc.
The regulatory businesses reported on in regulatory accounting statements are defined in accordance with the gas transporter licence under which the regulatory accounting statements are prepared and differ in some respects from the business definitions used in National Grid Gass annual report and accounts.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 1
