Report of the directors The directors of Northern Foods plc Northern Foods present their Directors biographical details are set out on the opposite page.
Annual report and the audited financial statements of the company for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007.
Stefan Barden, who joined the Board in January 2006, was appointed Chief Executive on 5 February 2007, following the resignation of Pat Principal activities ODriscoll.
Tony Illsley, who was appointed to the Board on 2 October Northern Foods is one of the UKs leading food producers, 2006, retires and, as required by the Combined Code, offers himself for manufacturing a mix of own label and branded products for retailers.
election by shareholders at the Annual general meeting in July 2007, Reporting under three divisions: Chilled, Frozen and Bakery, the being the first Annual general meeting following his appointment.
business operates in five business units primarily producing chilled Ready meals, chilled Sandwiches & Salads, Pizza, Biscuits and Puddings.
Under the companys articles of association and the provisions of the Combined Code directors are required to stand for re-election at the Results for the year third anniversary of their appointment.
Under these provisions no Pre-tax profit before restructuring items for continuing operations was director is required to stand for re-election at this years Annual 40.0 million 2005 06: 33.0 million and for discontinued operations general meeting.
Pre-tax restructuring items for continuing operations was a charge of 5.6 million 2005 06: The executive directors service contracts are referred to in the charge 15.7 million and for discontinued operations was a gain Directors remuneration report set out on pages 40 to 51.
The executive of 2.4 million 2005 06: charge 45.5 million.
The loss on sale directors service contracts are terminable by the company giving of discontinued operations was 58.7 million 2005 06: nil.
Performance review Other than service contracts, no director has a material beneficial A detailed review of the business of the group and its principal interest in any contract to which the company, or any of its activities, including a list of the principal risks and uncertainties facing subsidiaries, was a party during the year.
the group, is set out in the Performance review on pages 8 to 25.
The Performance review and Chief executives review include details Details of the remuneration of individual directors, and their interests of expected future developments of the group.
in the share capital of the company, are shown in the Directors remuneration report.
Disposals During the year Northern Foods successfully completed the disposal Indemnity of directors and officers programme which was announced as part of the strategy review on The companys articles of association include provision for the 31 May 2006. indemnity of directors, the company secretary and other officers of the company to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 1985.
On 31 July 2006, the group entered into a sale agreement to dispose This currently permits the company to provide indemnities to cover of the business and assets of NFT, its chilled distribution business.
defence costs in civil and criminal proceedings.
The director, employee The disposal completed on 11 August 2006 for a gross consideration or officer would still be liable to pay damages and to repay defence of 51.2 million, comprising 44.5 million cash together with a costs to the company if his her defence was unsuccessful.
During 2006 variable rate loan note of 6.7 million payable to Northern Foods the company executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each not later than twelve months from completion.
director of the company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the company or associated On 22 November 2006, Northern Foods announced that it had companies.
These provisions are qualifying third party indemnity reached agreement for the proposed disposal of its chilled Pastry, provisions as defined under s. 310 b of the Companies Act 1985 and Cakes, Speciality bread and Flour milling businesses for a gross copies are available to shareholders at the companys registered office.
consideration of 160 million, subject to shareholder approval.
The Resolution was passed at an extraordinary general meeting held on Employees and employment policies 9 January 2007 and completion of the sale took place on 13 January Northern Foods takes its responsibilities to its employees seriously.
Further details of the transaction are contained in the circular The groups policy is to provide opportunities for active participation to shareholders dated 20 December 2007, in the Performance review and personal development with the goals of motivating individuals and in note 11 of the financial statements.
and helping them to enhance their skills and maximise their potential.
Dividend The group is committed to: An interim dividend of 1.5 pence per share was paid on 30 March 2007 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 2.75 pence per Providing equality of opportunity for all existing and potential share to be paid on 24 August 2007 to shareholders on the register employees.
It aims to treat all of its employees fairly in every on 27 July 2007.
Under IFRS the final dividend has not been accrued aspect of employment.
Ensuring that employees have access to information that enables them to contribute and participate fully in the groups Directors achievement of its objectives.
The following were directors of the company during the year: Providing employees with clear and fair terms of employment and competitive remuneration packages.
S Barden R J S Bell The company encourages involvement in the companys performance C Dyer retired 6 September 2006 in a variety of ways, including senior management briefings, in-house A J Hobson publications and via the companys intranet.
The philosophy of A K Illsley appointed 2 October 2006 encouraging employees to contribute to the performance of the group J K Maiden is reinforced by a number of incentive schemes.
This year will see the O G Ni-Chionna introduction, subject to shareholder approval, of a new Savings-related D T Nish share option scheme, aimed at maximising employees involvement P A ODriscoll resigned 1 February 2007 and interest in the success of the company as a whole, through share non-executive directors ownership.
In addition, shareholders will also be asked to approve a new performance share plan.
Northern Foods plc Report of the directors 33 Report of the directors continued Disabled persons Research and development Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully Throughout the year the company invested across the business in considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
product development and research, further details are set out in the In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort Performance review.
is made to ensure their employment with the group continues and appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the group that Financial instruments training, career development and promotion of disabled persons Information on the groups financial risk management objectives and should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
policies and on the exposure of the group to relevant risks in respect of financial instruments is set out under the heading Financing and Share capital treasury management, on page 24 of the Performance review.
There were no changes in the companys share capital during this financial period.
Details of the share capital are shown in note 30 Annual general meeting in the notes to the financial statements.
No shares were purchased The notice convening the companys Annual general meeting, to be during the year under the limited authority granted at the 2006 held at 10.30am on Wednesday 18 July 2007 at the Thorpe Park Hotel, Annual general meeting to make market purchases of up to 10% 1150 Century Way, Leeds LS15 8ZB, is contained in the circular sent of the companys shares.
to shareholders with this report.
Substantial holders of stock Auditors At the date of this report, the company had been notified, in In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the company accordance with DTR5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, at the date when this report was approved: of holders of shares with 3% or more of the total voting rights in the issued share capital of the company from the following: so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 of which the % of total companys auditors are unaware: and voting rights each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought Standard Life Investments Limited 12.06 to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any AXA S. A. and its group companies 9.78 relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 Barclays plc and group companies 5.20 and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of Witmer Asset Management, LLC 4.17 that information.
Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co LLC 4.01 Allianz SE 3.93 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Legal & General Group plc 3.25 with the provisions of section 234A of the Companies Act 1985.
Corporate responsibility Deloitte & Touche LLP acted as auditors for the 52 weeks ended Northern Foods is committed to improving the operational 31 March 2007 and have expressed their willingness to continue and environmental performance of the business.
Details of the in office as auditors of the company.
A resolution proposing their commitments it makes in the marketplace, workplace, environment re-appointment will be submitted to the companys Annual and the community are set out in the Corporate responsibility report general meeting.
By order of the Board Charitable donations Carol Williams During the year the group donated 59,600 2005 06: 89,000 for Company Secretary charitable purposes.
It is group policy not to make political donations and none were made during the financial year.
30 May 2007 Supplier payment policy It is the companys policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been met.
Suppliers were paid on average 44 days of receipt of invoice, in line with the companys standard payment terms 2005 06: 43 days.
34 Report of the directors Northern Foods plc
