Board of directors and company secretary 1 Anthony Hobson 2 Stefan Barden 3 Jez Maiden Chairman Chief Executive Chief Finance Officer Joined the Board in 2002 and became Joined the Board in 2006 as director of the Joined the Board in 2005.
He was formerly Chairman in 2005.
He is Chairman of The Chilled division and was appointed Chief Group Finance Director of British Vita plc, Sage Group plc, and a non-executive director Executive on 5 February 2007 following a position he held from 2002.
Prior to that, of HBOS plc and Cenkos Securities plc.
the resignation of Pat ODriscoll.
He was he was Director of Finance of Britannia He was formerly Group Finance Director formerly Managing Director of Heinz UK and Building Society and Group Finance Director of Legal & General Group plc from 1987 to Ireland from 2003 to 2005.
He has extensive of Hickson International plc.
He chairs the nomination committee.
experience of the food industry having held roles with Iceland, McKinsey & Company 6 Ronnie Bell 4 Orna Ni-Chionna and Unilever.
He is a governor of the British Non-executive director Senior independent Nutrition Foundation, and also sits on Joined the Board in 2005 as a non-executive non-executive director the Policy Issues Council of the Institute director.
He was formerly President of Joined the Board in 2002 as a non-executive of Grocery Distributors IGD.
She was formerly a partner of Chairman of Milk Link and is a non-executive McKinsey & Company.
She is a non-executive 5 David Nish director of Ansell Limited and The Edrington director of Bank of Ireland UK Holdings plc, Non-executive director Group Limited.
Bristol and West plc and BUPA, and is Joined the Board in 2005 as a non-executive a member of the Apax Partners Retail director.
He is Group Finance Director of Non-executive director and Consumer Advisory Board.
She is Standard Life plc and was formerly Executive Remuneration committee member Vice Chair of the Soil Association.
She is Director, Infrastructure, of Scottish Power plc, Audit committee member the senior independent director and chairs and prior to that he was Group Finance Nomination committee member the remuneration committee.
Director, a position that he held since 1999.
He was formerly a partner with 7 Tony Illsley Pricewaterhouse.
He chairs the audit Non-executive director committee.
Joined the Board in 2006 as a non-executive director.
He was formerly Chief Executive 8 Carol Williams of Telewest plc until 2000 and has held roles Company Secretary with PepsiCo and Colgate Palmolive.
He Joined Northern Foods in 1990.
She is is Chairman of Plastic Logic Ltd and of Head of Legal and was appointed Company CacheLogic Ltd, holds a non-executive Secretary in March 2005.
She is a director position with GCap Media plc, and is of C&I Group Services Limited.
a trustee of the charity Whizz-Kidz.
1 23 4 56 78 32 Board of directors and company secretary Northern Foods plc
