16 Company Profile Overview Northgate Information Solutions is one of the UK's leading Northgate Public Services provides a broad range of softwareproviders of specialist software and information technology based solutions for specific niches in the Local Government and services to the Human Resources, Managed Services, Education criminal justice markets.
These deliver social and economic and Public Services markets.
Northgate Information Solutions is benefits in Local Government and social housing, land and listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the property, criminal justice and public safety.
Headquartered in Hemel Hempstead, Northgate committed to high-quality public services.
It has a very good has approximately 3,500 large medium and approximately understanding of the needs of the public sector which means 7,000 small to medium enterprise SME customers across the that it is particularly well placed to work in partnership with our UK and Ireland.
The original Company was founded in 1969 so clients in this area.
today, Northgate brings over 38 years experience in the IT market to its clients.
Northgate Managed Services supplies world-class Information Communications Technology ICT and managed service Northgate Information Solutions services touch the lives of solutions to help its customers in Local Government, utilities, most people in Britain.
It is the largest HR and payroll application educational institutions and the corporate sector to improve supplier in the UK, paying one in three of the populations wages their organisational performance.
Today, Northgate Managed every month.
Northgates Public Services systems sent out Services works with approximately 90% of UK local authorities: 9.8 million council tax bills and 3.8 million speeding and parking is the 2nd largest supplier of ICT managed services in education tickets last year.
Northgates customers include all 43 of the in the UK: supports 8 of the 10 largest water companies, and UKs police forces, over half the fire and ambulance services, administers more than 17bn of revenues and benefits.
approximately 90% of UK local authorities and more than half the FTSE 100 companies.
Northgate also provides state of the art managed learning services to more than 350,000 teachers and learners in the UK.
Northgates role is to deliver these large, complex administrative services so seamlessly that their recipients take them for granted.
Northgates approach is very focused on its customers needs.
The Company designs and implements a variety of tailored information technology applications and services which enable its customers to increase the efficiency of their business processes.
Northgate also manages key systems for many customers, providing a broad range of flexible and cost-effective outsourced solutions available either on-site for its clients at their own premises or hosted at Northgates BS779-accredited data centre.
Northgate Information Solutions has three major divisions focused on the Companys core business areas: Northgate HR is the specialist HR division of Northgate Information Solutions.
Northgate is the UK and Irelands leading supplier of HR, payroll and pensions software solutions and services working with organisations of every size from small medium enterprises via our Moorepay business which specialises in HR and payroll outsourcing to large corporates from every industry sector.
Northgate HR offers an integrated and very flexible range of in-house, managed and fullyoutsourced solutions designed to meet the markets evolving needs.
Consequently, Northgate HR is able to satisfy any HR or payroll requirement from recruitment and induction to integrated HR and payroll, to pensions administration.
Following the acquisition of ARINSO in June 2007, Northgate HR is becoming a worldwide leading supplier of HR software and services.
