Sir Stephen J Lander, aged 59, Non-Executive Chairman Divisional Managing Director, Non-Executive Director Mr Mackintosh joined the Board as NonNorthgate HR Sir Stephen was appointed a Non-Executive Executive Director and Chairman designate Mr Aldis was promoted to the Board on 27 May Director on 29 January 2004.
He was previously on 1 September 2006 and took over the role of 2004.
He has been Managing Director of Director General of the Security Service MI5 Chairman from 1 January 2007.
Mr Mackintosh Northgates HR Division since 1998 and has 1996-2002.
He also sat as a Non-Executive is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of overseen the rapid growth of this division and Director on the Board of HM Customs & Excise the Remuneration Committee of CSR plc, Senior the integration of Rebus HR into the Group.
2002-2005 and is the Chair of the Serious Non-Executive Director of Fidessa Group plc Organised Crime Agency.
formerly royalblue Group plc, Chairman of 5.
David J Meaden, aged 45, software company Smartstream Technologies Divisional Managing Director, 9.
Andrew M Robb, aged 64, Ltd and Chairman of Differentis.
Mr Mackintosh Northgate Public Services Non-Executive Director has held a number of senior executive positions Mr Meaden was promoted to the Board on Mr Robb was appointed a Non-Executive in European technology companies.
He has been Managing Director Director on 22 February 2007.
He is a Non- 1992 and 2000 he was Chief Executive of of Northgate Public Services since May 2001, Executive Director of Corus Group plc, Kesa Computer Sciences Corporation CSC and is with overall responsibility for Northgates Electricals plc, Laird Group plc and Paypoint also a former Director and interim CEO of development in the Local Government and plc.
Andrew was Group Finance Director of Gemplus SA.
Pilkington plc for 12 years and, prior to that, was Group Finance Director of P & O Steam 2.
Jack R Fryer, aged 68, Navigation Co.
He is also Chairman of the Chief Executive Senior Independent Director and Pilkington Pension Scheme Trustees.
He is a Mr Stone was appointed a Director and Chief Non-Executive Director Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Executive on 31 October 1999.
He was Mr Fryer was appointed a Non-Executive Management Accountants.
formerly with Accenture where he was an Director on 15 December 1999.
He previously held senior previously with Marconi, Lucas Industries, Rank 10.
J Nicholas Starritt, aged 53, management positions with Digital Equipment Xerox and Rolls Royce.
He is also Chairman of Non-Executive Director Corporation UK and EDS.
Mr Starritt was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 27 May 2004.
David C Hodgson, aged 50, includes four years as the Group Vice-President Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director of Human Resources for BP plc: he was also a Mr Stier was promoted to Group Finance Mr Hodgson was appointed a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Rebus HR before Director on 15 May 2003.
Prior to joining Director on 27 May 2004.
He is a Managing its acquisition by Northgate.
He is European Northgate, he held senior financial positions Director at General Atlantic Partners, the IT Managing Director of Sirota Consulting Ltd. with Thames Water plc and Shanks plc.
He is investment firm which has an approximately a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 13% stake in Northgate.
He serves as a Director Accountants in England and Wales.
of a number of public and private information technology companies.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee appointed on 23 March 2007 Member of the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC
