Our mission To be a national leader in the provision of sustainable water and waste water services.
NWG at a glance Related services Northumbrian Water Group plc Analytical & Environmental Services Limited AES Northumbrian Water Group plc NWG owns a number provided environmental monitoring services, analysis of companies which, together with NWG, form the and technical consultancy to major industrial groups, Group.
The largest of these companies, Northumbrian environmental regulators and local authorities Water Limited NWL, is one of the ten regulated water throughout the UK and Ireland during the year.
On and sewerage businesses in England and Wales.
NWL 31 March 2007, the business of AES merged with operates in the north east of England, where it trades as NWL and continues to operate as a trading division Northumbrian Water, and in the south east of England, of NWL.
where it trades as Essex & Suffolk Water.
Northumbrian Water currently provides water and sewerage services to SA Agrer NV Agrer carries out project work in 2.6 million people and Essex & Suffolk Water provides developing countries through a number of overseas water services to 1.7 million people.
Water and waste water contracts NWG owns a number of special purpose companies which hold water and waste water contracts in Scotland, Ireland and Gibraltar.
Printed on Revive paper and board.
Revive paper and board has a 75% recycled content 35% fide-inked post consumer waste and 40% pre-consumer waste with the remaining 25% being mill broke and virgin fibres.
Recycled papers used in the production of the above grade are a combination of Totally Chlorine Free TCF, giving zero AOX and Elemental Chlorine Free ECF, giving a resultant AOX level of 0.5kg per 1,000kg of pulp.
This material is recyclable and bio-degradable and is a NAPM approved recycled grade.
This paper product complies with EN71 BS5665 part 3 Toy Safety Regulations and ISO 9706 requirements for permanence of paper.
The mill has both ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
This report has been printed using vegetable based inks.
NWLs Barry Hook working at Horsley water treatment works in Newcastle upon Tyne.
