25 Directors Report Report of the Directors Report of the Directors to the members for the year ended 30 April 2007.
Principal Activity and Review of Business Developments The principal activity of the Group is the development and supply of software and related services.
This comprises applications software including hardware and associated installation, maintenance services, facilities management and software support together with the development and supply of applications development tools.
The Group specialises in the provision of these services in the following markets:- Human Resources and Payroll: Local Government: Emergency Services: and Education.
A general review of the operations of the Group and its future prospects is included in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and Group Finance Directors Review on pages 5 to 15.
Directors The Directors of the Company at the year-end and the date of this report are shown on page 19.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment by the Board and to re-election at general meetings at least every three years.
Mr Jack R Fryer continues to act as the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Ron W Mackintosh became Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate on 1 September 2006, subsequently being appointed Chairman on 1 January 2007.
Mr Andrew M Robb became a Non-Executive Director on 22 March 2007 and member of the Audit Committee on 23 March 2007.
Directors remuneration is covered in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 41.
Financial Performance and Development The Groups profit before taxation was 31.9m 2006: 30.6m.
The profit after taxation was 25.1m 2006: 21.3m.
Full results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 45 and a general review of the operations of the Group can be found on pages 5 to 15.
The Directors consider that the Companys development over recent years and the positive outlook for the Group justifies the continuation of a dividend payment this year.
The Directors have decided to recommend to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a final dividend payment of 0.48 pence per share in addition to the interim dividend of 0.24 pence per share already paid 2006: 0.6 pence per share.
The financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs used by Northgate to measure its own performance at Group level are revenue, adjusted operating profit and adjusted basic earnings per share.
The figures for the year ended 30 April 2007 are set out in the Financial Highlights on page 3 together with the figures for the previous year and in the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 13 to 15.
At divisional level, the KPIs include divisional turnover, divisional operating profit, divisional operating margins, forward order book and organic revenue growth.
The KPIs for each division are shown in the Chief Executives Review on pages 8 to 12 as part of the Divisional review.
Other KPIs include average length of service and staff turnover page 28.
Balance Sheet Restatement The 2006 balance sheet comparatives have been restated see notes 1 and 13.
There were no adjustments required in the comparative income statement, earnings per share or cash flow statement.
Northgate Group Objectives Northgates overriding objectives are to provide first-class IT solutions for its customers, a positive environment for its employees and superior financial returns for shareholders.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 26 Directors Report continued Key strengths Northgates key strengths are: P Pe eo op plle e Northgates people are experienced, enthusiastic and committed.
They put customer solutions at the heart of all they do.
Our employees have on average eight years of employment at Northgate and often have many more years of relevant industry experience.
This rich experience of the market leads to solutions which directly address our customers requirements.
M Ma ar rk ke et t p po os siit tiio on ns s with market leading positions, Northgate is able to devote more resources to developing innovative solutions, as well as being able to attract the best employees, partners and suppliers and have a deeper understanding of clients needs.
S Siiz ze e as a substantial business, Northgate is able to bid for and win larger contracts and to make large scale investments that will enhance prospects and generate lasting value.
IIn nn no ov va at tiio on n Northgate has an excellent track record of innovation.
During the year, around 440 staff were employed directly in development roles and support, and 18.2m 2006: 16.9m was invested in product development.
New products introduced The following new products and developments were introduced or took place during the year: Northgate HR R Re es so ou ur rc ce eL Liin nk k E En nt te er rp pr riis se e Northgate's flagship HR and payroll solution was relaunched with significant developments that further automate HR processes.
Data capture and reporting facilities allow organisations to collect valuable information on the people in their organisation to support recruitment, development and retention of employees.
KPIs critical to the organisation success can be monitored real time.
A 'dashboard' alerts users to instances where KPIs could be affected and enable the user to drill down and establish the cause of the problem.
Multiple languages and legislative frameworks have also been created to meet the needs of global organisations.
O Ou ut ts so ou ur rc ciin ng g Developments in terms of size of HR outsourcing contracts and an increase in demand for shared services whereby Northgate takes full responsibility for the clients HR and payroll function by way of a dedicated HR and payroll centre.
Acquisition of Edis Partnerships UK Ltd has increased Northgates outsourcing services to include pensions administration as well as HR and payroll services.
E Em mp po ow we er r IIn nt te er rn ne et t R Re ec cr ru uiit tm me en nt t An additional module for Empower Recruitment which enables clients to publish vacancies automatically to their website and then, in turn, receive candidate applications.
This significantly improves the efficiency and costeffectiveness of the recruitment process.
Candidates enter their own information via the application form on the client's website which feeds directly into the HR database, allowing recruiters to focus on the more important business of selection.
Northgate Public Services A Department of Communities Local Government DCLG approved accreditation scheme and service for Domestic Energy Assessors including the production of Energy Performance Certificates was set up.
New User Interfaces for Revenues and Benefits and Front Office have been introduced to improve service to the citizen and to enable more efficient and effective usage of the solution.
The Contractors module was developed to allow Public Sector organisations to effectively manage the performance of their resources including suppliers.
A new Housing Advice Module was introduced to give greater support to the needs of vulnerable citizens and to address the key Government policy of the prevention of homelessness.
New mobile solutions for the Land and Property market have been developed.
Northgate Managed Services Managed Services innovative Managed Learning Environment MLE has been developed and will be deployed to the first school in Bristol to benefit from the Building Schools for the Future programme, in September 2007.
The MLE is the first learning platform to provide integration of the key applications in schools including the management information system MIS, Virtual Learning environment VLE, access control, cashless catering and library.
The integration with the facilities management systems FM realises the vision of schools being intelligent buildings.
The MLE supports the transformation of teaching and learning and enables the realisation of the government agenda for education reform including personalised learning, workforce reform, parental inclusion, raising attainment, community involvement, learning mobility and provides improved life chances for learners.
As part of the Bristol project, Northgate has been working with schools on business process re-engineering and has identified a substantial number of processes which can be automated through the MLE allowing teachers to spend less time on administrative tasks and more time teaching.
This Business Process Re-engineering service will be offered to all schools with which we work in the future.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 27 As well as successfully developing and launching innovative new products, Northgate also uses its extensive market knowledge to act as a significant thought leader in the markets it serves.
In this way, Northgate is able to bring its extensive experience and intellectual capability to bear on specific customer situations to deliver effective solutions.
Strategy Northgates Group strategy is to develop a successful and sustainable business as an international IT services provider by: building its business around intellectual property rights IPR to create market leading positions: using its IPR and customer service record to win an increasing share of work in human resources and public services: broadening its range of products and services using its technical skills to respond to client needs: supplementing organic growth with appropriate acquisitions that complement its existing business and product portfolio: and expanding overseas judiciously in areas where it can develop a strong market presence.
This is supported by the following division-specific strategies: Northgate HR Northgate Human Resources is the market-leading HR software business in the UK.
Whilst Northgate actively supports a range of legacy products, its research and development is concentrated on the flagship product, ResourceLink.
ResourceLinks functionality and Northgates ability to implement client solutions effectively means that the product continues to be successful in the UK.
Alongside the applications business, Northgate continues to develop its outsourcing business and has won numerous new clients in the year.
On 15 June this year, we completed the acquisition of a controlling interest in ARINSO International NV, providing Northgate HR with an international footprint.
The focus going forwards will be to drive organic growth through this international network, supplemented by bolt-on acquisitions.
Northgate Public Services Northgates Public Services Division has developed a broad portfolio of services and software-based solutions for specific niches in the local government and criminal justice markets.
This has been created from a combination of targeted acquisitions and focused research and development.
The product portfolio has been integrated so that flexible solutions for individual client requirements can be rapidly and effectively deployed.
Northgate public services strategy is to enhance its product portfolio though research and development activities to drive organic growth and continue to assess acquisition opportunities to widen its product set and lead industry consolidation.
Northgate Managed Services Northgates Managed Services division provides world-class ICT and managed service solutions across both public and private sectors.
The division specialises in three key sectors Education, Utilities and Government, and provides Infrastructure Solutions across public, private and voluntary sectors with the following strategies: Education to build on the successful business already established in Northern Ireland and first key win in the BSF market by winning new contracts in the rest of the UK.
The government programme Building Schools for the Future provides an opportunity for Northgate to build a successful business in this market: Infrastructure Solutions providing a range of flexible solutions, tailored to business' needs that simplify day-to-day operations and increase efficiency and productivity, delivering tangible bottom-line benefits.
Utilities & Public sector NI enabling customer excellence and improved efficiencies through providing business process outsourcing and IT services tailored for the Utilities sector: supporting the drive to improving public services in Northern Ireland following the Review of Public Administration RPA.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 28 Directors Report continued Risks and Uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach to assessing risk and recognises that creating value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
Executive management implements the Boards policies on risk and control and present assurance on compliance with these policies.
Further independent assurance is provided by an internal audit function which operates across the Group and through external auditors.
This system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Under reporting requirements recently introduced, the Board should comment on the risk factors facing our business.
The Board continually reviews and mitigates the risks that impact on the business.
The key sector and business risks are similar to previous years and are as follows: The global economic climate As with all technology companies, we continue to review the risks that may result from global instability.
We continue to monitor the demands for on-shore versus offshore rates and will react accordingly.
Client spending risks We focus on areas where customers continue are required to invest.
Acquisitions We are experienced in acquisitions and have a well-structured acquisition integration process.
Control Whilst the Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, it has delegated to the Executive Management Committee the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly-defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
There are also established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting systems and for monitoring the Groups businesses and their performances.
These include: review of divisional operating plans with the relevant Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval: regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts: monthly comparison of each operating divisions actual financial performance with budget: operating policies and procedures: regular reporting of accounting and legal developments to the Board: and regular reporting review and updating of the Groups risk management schedules.
Corporate Governance Detailed statements of the Companys corporate governance principles and the Groups systems of internal control are set out in Corporate Governance on pages 20 to 24.
Resources In order to meet customer needs and optimise efficiency Northgate utilises a variety of resources:- Employees The Northgate Group has a very committed, loyal and driven workforce.
This has increased considerably in size since the year-end with approximately 2,600 ARINSO employees joining the enlarged Group.
Average length of service is 7.68 years and staff turnover was less than 12.5% for the year.
Recruitment During the year, 500 new employees joined Northgate which reflects the continued growth of the Group and our commitment to bring bright, talented people into our organisation.
230 contractors were also employed, mainly working on projects and providing a flexible resource pool to support client projects.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 29 Reward Northgates reward strategy aims to reinforce the link between employee and business performance.
In addition to a competitive basic salary, total reward may include variable pay elements such as bonuses, commission, recognition awards and long-term incentive plans.
In addition, Northgate offers all employees the opportunity to participate in MyChoice flexible benefits scheme.
MyChoice offers a strong core benefits portfolio, including a generous money purchase pension scheme, private medical cover, life assurance plus a range of other benefits from which employees can select.
Employee Communication Northgate prides itself on the strength of its relationships with employees at all levels.
It aims to provide an open dialogue with the workforce to ensure employees are kept up to date on significant developments within the Group.
This includes regular and open communication about our Group and divisional goals and objectives to ensure everyone understands their role in the organisation and, in turn, promote a climate of trust and participation in Northgate and its future.
Northgate encourages two-way communication with its employees and does this through a variety of mediums including face-to-face briefings, newsletters, a quarterly staff magazine, e-bulletins and the Companys intranet.
Employees also have access to an Employee Consultation Group ECG who meets with members of the Northgate management on a regular basis.
The ECG is a key group of individuals who are included in the plans for proposed new initiatives for Northgate and are given the opportunity to put forward their views and the views of the employees that they represent, in relation to any proposed changes.
Representatives play a vital role in gathering employees opinions and bringing these to the Companys attention.
Approximately 224 Northgate employees are covered by union recognition agreements with either GMB or Unison.
Learning & Development Northgate is committed to investing in its people and offers a wide range of internal training programmes for employees.
We currently have three tiers of management and leadership development at Northgate.
These are the High Potential Development Programme, Leadership Development Programme and First Line Manager Programme.
Individuals are also offered job-related technical training, consistent with their personal development plans as part of the performance management process.
Northgate invested over 1.5m in external training as well as running a substantial amount of development programmes in-house.
Performance Management This year, Northgate introduced an enhanced performance management system for 2007.
The new system will help optimise individual and team performance and effectively link success to reward, development and career progression.
The most significant improvement to the process is the introduction of a Northgate-specific competency framework linking expected behaviours to the Northgate company values.
Employee Survey Employee feedback is extremely important to Northgate and one way we listen to our employees is via our annual employee survey.
The survey gives all employees the opportunity to anonymously feedback their views, both positive and negative, about working for Northgate.
The results help the Group build on its strengths and tackle areas that have been identified for improvement.
Feedback from previous years results have driven key initiatives for the Group including the development of new communication channels, the launch of a technical training managed service solution and a new performance management system, all of which continue to maintain momentum in 2007.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 30 Directors Report continued Employees continued Findings from the last employee survey have seen improvements from previous survey results specifically around leadership, pride in working for Northgate and the overall commitment of our employees.
There has been a striking increase in employees views that the Northgate Group is well led with an increase of 15% agreement from 2005.
86% of employees have indicated that Northgate has a great future, we respond appropriately to changes in the marketplace and 90% agree that we have a high-quality set of products and services.
Overall, employees have shown a high level of satisfaction working for Northgate.
Our people are loyal and motivated with 93% of employees willing to go the extra mile to help the Northgate Group succeed.
Areas identified for continuous improvement were inter departmental working, driving awareness of training and development opportunities and embedding the new performance management system.
Equipment During the year, Northgate spent over 57m on IT hardware and software, ranging from servers, desktops, laptops, software, PC peripherals and consumables.
This was to support client needs and internal use.
The Companys IT procurement strategy centres on a Group-wide approach to developing strategic relationships with suppliers.
This is being delivered through the application of more efficient best practice processes and is underpinned by increased commercial leverage in the marketplace.
IT supplier rationalisation continues as an ongoing review exercise which supports this goal.
Financial Northgate has access to sources of capital that are sufficient to develop the business.
Its bank funds are provided by a syndicate of 14 leading banks.
Following an increase in borrowing facilities post-year-end, Northgate can call on up to 100m of unused facilities.
These arrangements, coupled with the cash-generative and recurring nature of the business, give confidence over Northgates financial strength and provide the basis on which future investment decisions can be taken.
After the year-end, the borrowing facility was increased following the acquisition of ARINSO see note 31.
Locations In order to maximise customer responsiveness and to manage risk, Northgate operates from a range of different locations around the UK.
Our primary offices are in Hemel Hempstead, Belfast, Alderley Edge, Bristol, Bracknell, Sheffield, Peterborough, Fleet and Solihull.
We also have smaller premises in 55 other locations across the UK.
Our entire trading property portfolio consists of 76 properties.
In addition we have 6 offices overseas supporting our international customers.
Health and Safety Northgate has an established health and safety policy that focuses on the ability to measure performance and to pursue continuous improvement in managing health and safety.
An Advisory Committee, that includes representatives from across Northgate, meets regularly to ensure that health and safety matters are continually addressed.
The health and safety manager chairs this committee.
Consultation with employees is maintained through appointed health and safety representatives at each location.
Bulletins and other guidance documents are regularly distributed and health and safety has been established as a separate module on the Northgate Management Training Programme.
Accidents and Sickness During the past year, there were 2 reportable injuries within Northgate.
This represented a reduction from the previous year of 87% 2006: 16 reportable injuries.
The total number of working days lost through sickness was 21,120 of which 1,188 days were classified as long term greater than 5 days, giving a total of lost working time through sickness of 3%.
Northgate actively supports staff during periods of sickness whilst managing this from a business perspective.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 31 Environment The Group is committed to developing a sustainable business which minimises its environmental impact.
Amongst other things, Northgate's environmental policy provides that the Company will minimise environmental risk and prevent pollution: promote efficiency in energy use and waste management: educate our employees in carrying out their environmental responsibilities: and encourage our suppliers and other stakeholders to use energy and resources efficiently.
Northgate is committed to engaging in public policy debate and the development of shared solutions to public policy matters.
We continue to participate actively in government consultations embracing wide areas of public policy including: education, local government policy, criminal justice policy, the transformational agenda, planning and the environment, electoral administration and health.
For further details please refer to the Corporate Responsibility section on page 17.
Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy Equality, Diversity and Dignity Respect for the individual is one of Northgate's key values.
Northgate has embarked on a series of measures to promote Equality, Diversity and Dignity and to raise the awareness of how such issues can impact on individual and business performance.
These initiatives seek to improve the working environment by eliminating prejudice and promoting integration and co-operation.
Northgate launched a new Equality, Diversity and Dignity Policy in January 2007 which combines our old Equality, Racial Equality and Harassment Policies and complies with the Commission for Racial Equalities code of conduct.
In addition, all HR policies are kept up to date in line with legislative changes and an e-learning module relating to diversity is used as part of the employee induction process.
All managers from Executive Committee downwards received training in relation to the discrimination including age and diversity aspects of employment and further briefings will be cascaded to all employees during 2007.
An on-line Equality Staff Survey was conducted in November 2006 and will be conducted every 2 years.
In Northern Ireland, we completed our Article 55 three-year review for the Equality Commission of Northern Ireland.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled to continue their employment or to be trained for other positions in the Group.
Donations During the year, the Group made no charitable donations 2006: nil.
However, as part of our Corporate Responsibility programme, Northgate has established a Community Investment Scheme, Community Link.
This programme recognises the invaluable community contribution that our employees can and do make in their involvement in wider community activities.
Our aim as a company is to support our colleagues through policies and practices relating to social investment and charitable contributions which maximise the social rewards from such investment.
Further information on our Community Investment Scheme can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of this report on page 17.
The Group made no political donations 2006: nil.
Payments to Suppliers It is the Groups practice to agree credit terms with suppliers in advance and to pay invoices in line with these agreed terms.
The Groups number of days purchases included in trade creditors at the balance sheet date was 66 days 2006: 67 days.
The main UK trading subsidiary companies details are disclosed in their accounts.
The parent company does not have any trade creditors, therefore payments to suppliers disclosure is not required.
Relationships with key stakeholders Northgate manages its relationships with its key stakeholder groups as follows: Customers Northgates customers have a nominated individual through whom all day-to-day customer contact is managed.
Larger customers have dedicated account managers or teams that focus directly on customer needs.
A number of active user groups are in place where customers can provide feedback on product performance, future requirements and issues of strategic significance.
Investors Northgate has an active investor relations programme that focuses on the annual and half-year results announcements and business.
Northgate meets with significant current and potential investors in order to brief them on the Companys progress and direction.
Northgate also holds ad hoc meetings to brief investors and analysts on specific issues and an annual analyst briefing at which senior managers review their markets in detail, as well as demonstrate products.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 32 Directors Report continued Suppliers and partners Northgate performs reviews of its key suppliers and partners on a regular basis to ensure that maximum performance and value are being obtained, and that risk and reward are equitably shared.
Northgate negotiates clear agreements within which the Company and its suppliers operate.
Local communities Northgate has active involvement in the communities within which it operates.
This ranges from maintaining close relationships with local councils to sponsoring a range of community-based activities such as London Peace Week.
For further details, please refer to the Corporate Responsibility section on page 17.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc has confirmed its willingness to continue in office as Auditors of the Company and in accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to re-appoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11:00 am on 27 September 2007 at ABN AMRO, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA.
Formal notice and details of the meeting will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Substantial Interests Details of the share capital of the Company are shown in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
At 31 May 2007, the following persons have notified the Company of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company under Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985.
Number of shares % issued share capital Gap North Limited 68,780,000 12.81 UBS Global Asset Management 27,578,950 5.14 Legal and General Investment Management 23,055,351 4.30 Resolution Asset Management 21,619,037 4.03 Aberforth Partners 19,821,069 3.69 S G Asset Management 17,417,878 3.24 Important Events Since the Year End Since the end of the financial year Northgate has signed an agreement the Share Purchase Agreement with Mr Jos Sluys, the Chief Executive of ARINSO International NV, to acquire his holding of 9,069,840 shares in ARINSO representing approximately 60.43 per cent of the outstanding share capital of ARINSO for 18.75 in cash and five new Northgate shares for each ARINSO share.
The Share Purchase Agreement values each ARINSO share at 24.61 and the total consideration for the stake at 223.2 million 150.9 million.
In addition, Northgate has acquired a further 20.92% of ARINSOs share capital, taking its total holding to 81.35%.
The transaction was approved by shareholders at an EGM on 15 June 2007.
Following completion, Northgate will launch a mandatory public offer to acquire the remaining shares in ARINSO in accordance with Belgian rules on public takeovers.
The Board of ARINSO has indicated that it will unanimously recommend such an offer to its shareholders.
The total consideration for the whole of the share capital of ARINSO upon 5 full acceptance of the offer would be approximately 371.7 million 251.3 million.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
John D Richardson Secretary 4 July 2007 5 GBP:EUR exchange rate of 1.479 as at 15 June 2007.
Northgate share price of 79.25 pence, the closing price on 15 June 2007.
