Directors Report The directors are pleased to present their report to shareholders, Pearson also made a number of other smaller acquisitions during together with the financial statements for the year ended 31 December the year, mainly within the FT Group.
Net consideration paid for all 2007 on pages 50 to 52 and 54 to 101 respectively.
Details of the acquisitions during the year ended 31 December 2007 was 472m businesses, the development of the Group and its subsidiaries and and provisional goodwill recognised was 304m.
likely future developments are given on pages 1 to 24.
Sales and In total the acquisitions made in 2007 contributed an additional 90m profits of the different sectors and geographical markets are given of sales and 13m of operating profit.
On 15 February 2007, Pearson completed its sale of Government Principal business activities Solutions and on 24 December 2007, the Group sold Les Echos to LVMH for240m.
Pearson is an international media company with market-leading businesses in education, business information and consumer Transactions with related parties publishing.
With more than 32,000 employees based in 60 countries, Details of transactions with related parties, which are reportable under we are a large family of businesses focused on making the reading and IAS 24 Related party disclosures, are given in note 35 to the accounts learning experience as enjoyable and as beneficial as it can possibly be.
Results and dividend Capital expenditure The profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 was 310m The analysis of capital expenditure and details of capital commitments 2006: 469m and has been transferred to reserves.
A final dividend are shown in notes 10, 11 and 34 to the accounts on pages 68 to 70 of 20.5p per share is recommended for the year ended 31 December and 94.
This, together with the interim dividend already paid, makes a total for the year of 31.6p 2006: 29.3p.
The final dividend will be paid Events after the balance sheet date on 9 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at close of business on On 2 January 2008, the Group completed its acquisition of Money- 11 April 2008, the record date.
Media a US-based company offering online news and commentary for the money management industry.
Business review The chairmans statement and chief executives review on pages 2 to 6, On 30 January 2008, the Group completed its acquisition of Harcourt report on the development and performance of the Group during the Assessment from Reed Elsevier, after receiving clearance from the year ended 31 December 2007 and our likely future development.
The elements covered in these reports are required by the business Also on 30 January 2008 the Group announced that it had agreed to review and are incorporated into the directors report by reference.
sell its 50% interest in Financial Times Deutschland to its joint venture The business review itself can be found on pages 8 to 24. partner, Gruner Jahr.
Significant acquisitions and disposals On 22 February 2008, the Group completed the sale of its Data Management business to M & F Worldwide Corp. for $225m.
During the year, Pearson announced the acquisition of Harcourt Assessment and Harcourt Education International from Reed Elsevier Directors for $950m in cash.
Harcourt Assessment has an extensive catalogue of high quality research-based education and clinical assessment The present members of the board, together with their biographical products for children and adults.
In international education, Harcourt details, are shown on page 25.
Details of directors remuneration, publishes textbooks and online learning materials for teachers and interests and dealings in ordinary shares and options of the company students in primary and secondary schools and the vocational market.
are contained in the report on directors remuneration on pages 35 The Harcourt Education International acquisition was completed in to 49. stages during 2007 and the Harcourt Assessment acquisition was Four directors, Terry Burns, Ken Hydon, Glen Moreno and Marjorie completed in January 2008.
Scardino will retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general In July 2007, Pearson completed the acquisition of eCollege, a leading meeting AGM on 25 April 2008.
All of them, being eligible, will provider of eLearning and enrollment services to post-secondary offer themselves for re-election.
Details of directors service contracts can be found on page 42.
No director was materially interested in any contract of significance to the companys business.
26 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance understanding of what those concerns might be.
The senior independent director also meets with the non-executive directors at Introduction least once a year in order to appraise the performance of the chairman, A detailed account of how we comply with the provisions of the 2006 and would be expected to chair the nomination committee on those Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code can be found occasions when it is considering succession to the role of chairman of on our website at www.
The board believes that we are in full compliance with the Code Independence of directors with one exception: since the resignation of Rana Talwar last April, The board considers all of the non-executive directors to be our personnel committee is made up of only two independent non-executive directors and the chairman.
The board is aware of independent.
Particular consideration was given to the assessment of Terry Burns independence since he has now served on the board for this issue and intends to appoint an additional independent director almost nine years.
Terry has been asked by the chairman to remain in due course.
on the board because of his experience, knowledge and effectiveness Composition of the board as a non-executive director and he has indicated that he is willing to The board consists of the chairman, Glen Moreno, five executive stand for re-election as a director of the company on an annual basis.
directors including the chief executive, Marjorie Scardino, and five A resolution for his re-election will be proposed at the forthcoming independent non-executive directors.
The board believes that it is in shareholders interests for Terry Burns to be re-elected as an independent non-executive director of the Senior independent director company.
They believe that he continues to challenge rigorously the Terry Burns was appointed as our senior independent director in 2004. executive directors, the board and the committees on which he sits His role includes being available to shareholders if they should have and brings a wealth of useful experience both in his position as a concerns that have not been addressed through the normal channels, non-executive director and as the senior independent director.
and attending meetings with shareholders in order to gain a balanced Board meetings The board meets six times a year and at other times as appropriate.
The following table sets out the attendance of our directors at the board and committee meetings during 2007: Audit Personnel Nomination Board committee committee committee meetings meetings meetings meetings maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 5 maximum 2 Chairman Glen Moreno 6 6 5 5 2 2 Executive directors Marjorie Scardino 6 6 2 2 David Bell 5 6 Rona Fairhead 6 6 Robin Freestone 6 6 John Makinson 6 6 Non-executive directors David Arculus 6 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 Terry Burns 6 6 5 5 2 2 Patrick Cescau 6 6 4 4 2 2 Susan Fuhrman 6 6 4 4 2 2 Ken Hydon 6 6 4 4 2 2 1 Rana Talwar 1 2 2 2 1 2 1 Resigned on 30 April 2007 27 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report continued The role and business of the board During the course of the year the executive directors were evaluated by the chief executive on their performance against personal objectives The formal matters reserved for the boards decision and approval under the companys standard appraisal mechanism.
The chairman include: the companys strategy and reviewing performance against it: leads the assessment of the chief executive and the senior independent major changes to the companys corporate structure: approval of all director conducts a review of the chairmans performance.
shareholder documents: acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds: all guarantees over 10m: treasury Directors training policies: the interim and final dividends and the financial statements: Directors receive a significant induction programme and a range borrowing powers: ensuring adequate succession planning for the of information about the company when they join the board.
board and senior management: appointments to the board: and the This includes background information on Pearson and details of appointment and removal of the company secretary.
board procedures, directors responsibilities and various governanceThe board receives timely, regular and necessary management and related issues, including procedures for dealing in Pearson shares and other information to fulfil its duties.
Directors can obtain independent their legal obligations as directors.
The induction also includes a series professional advice at the companys expense in the performance of of meetings with members of the board, presentations regarding the their duties as directors.
All directors have access to the advice and business from senior executives and a briefing on Pearsons investor services of the company secretary.
We supplement the existing directors training programme through continuing presentations about the companys In addition to these formal roles, we endeavour to give the nonoperations at board meetings and by making available to the directors executive directors access to the senior managers of the business via the opportunity for additional visits to operating company divisions involvement at both formal and informal meetings.
In this way we as well as meetings with local management.
Externally run courses are hope that the experience and expertise of the non-executive directors also made available should directors wish to make use of them.
can be garnered to the benefit of the company.
At the same time, the non-executive directors develop an understanding of the abilities of Directors indemnities the most senior managers which will help them judge the companys The company grants an indemnity to all of its directors in accordance prospects and plans for succession.
with section 232 of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to costs incurred by them in defending any civil or criminal proceedings and in Board evaluation connection with an application for relief under section 144 3 or 4 or Following the chairmans review of the effectiveness of our board section 727 of the Companies Act 1985, so long as it is repaid not later and of the board committees, as described last year, the board than when the outcome becomes final if: i they are convicted in the identified four areas where it could most effectively contribute to the proceedings: ii judgement is given against them: or iii the court companys success: strategy, governance, operating effectiveness and refuses to grant the relief sought.
The company has purchased and maintains directors and officers The board cycle was adapted to ensure that at least one board meeting insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in per year is primarily devoted to each of these themes, with significant connection with any act or omission by such directors and officers in time for thorough review and discussion.
the execution of their duties.
In addition, the chairman asked the deputy secretary to meet with each Dialogue with institutional shareholders of the directors to gather their views on the level of support they felt There is an extensive programme for the chairman, CEO, executive they were receiving as board directors.
The deputy secretary duly met directors and senior managers to meet with institutional shareholders.
with each of the directors and asked for feedback on a number of The non-executive directors meet informally with shareholders both matters, including the Pearson induction programme, their ongoing before and after the AGM, and respond to shareholder queries and training needs, the logistical support they receive and their thoughts requests.
The chairman and senior independent director make on the process for board and committee meetings.
Following this themselves available to meet any significant shareholder as required.
review a paper was tabled at a subsequent board meeting which set Makinson Cowell reports to the board on the results of an extensive out the findings from these one to one sessions and detailed what the survey on major shareholders views.
company planned to do to address some of the concerns that were expressed.
As a result of this review a number of actions have been Furthermore, reports on changes in shareholder positions and views taken, including making changes to the balance of board meetings are given to the board at every board meeting.
held outside of the UK and deciding on the process for the next board evaluation.
In early 2008 the chairman asked the directors to complete an evaluation questionnaire on the board and each of its committees.
Responses will be gathered and communicated to the board at a forthcoming meeting.
28 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Board committees Reports on the activities of the internal audit function, including the results of internal audits, risk reviews, project assurance reviews The board has established three committees: the audit committee, and fraud whistleblowing: the personnel committee and the nomination committee.
Chairmen and members of these committees are appointed by the board on the A review of its own effectiveness and both the internal and recommendation where appropriate of the nomination committee external auditors: and in consultation with each requisite committee chairman.
Reporting of whistleblowing incidents: i Audit committee Reappointment of the external auditors: The audit committee comprises Ken Hydon chairman, David Arculus, Patrick Cescau and Susan Fuhrman.
Approval of the external audit engagement, scope and fees: All of the committee members are independent non-executive Receipt of the external auditor report on the year end audit and directors and have financial and or related business experience due to Form 20-F filing: the senior positions they hold or held in other listed or publicly traded Assessment of the external auditor relationship to confirm companies and or similar public organisations.
Ken Hydon is our independence and compliance with professional and designated financial expert.
auditing standards: The committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out Approval of services and fees provided by the external auditor: its authority and duties.
These are reviewed annually and can be found on the company website at www.
htm Significant legal claims and regulatory issues where applicable in the context of the impact on financial reporting: and The committee has been established by the board primarily for the purpose of overseeing the accounting and financial reporting processes A review of treasury policy.
of the company and audits of the financial statements of the company.
ii Personnel committee The committee is responsible for assisting the boards oversight of The members of the committee comprise David Arculus chairman, the quality and integrity of the companys external financial reporting Terry Burns and Glen Moreno.
The board will appoint an additional and statements and the companys accounting policies and practices.
independent director in due course so as to comply with the Code.
The Groups internal and external auditors have direct access to the The committee has responsibility for determining the remuneration committee to raise any matter of concern and to report on the results and benefits packages of the executive directors, the chief executives of work directed by the committee.
The committee reports to the full of the principal operating companies and other members of the board on a regular basis.
It also reviews the objectivity of the external management committee, as well as recommending the chairmans auditors, including services supplied, and ensures that there is an remuneration to the board for its decision.
The committee takes independent advice from consultants when The committee met four times during the year with the chief financial required.
No director takes part in any discussion or decision officer, head of internal audit and other members of the senior concerning their own remuneration.
The committee reports to the management team, together with the external auditors, in attendance.
full board and its report on directors remuneration, which has been The committee also met regularly in private with the external auditors considered and adopted by the board, is set out on pages 34 to 48. and the head of internal audit.
The committee met five times during the year, and has written The committee receives regular technical updates as well as specific terms of reference which clearly set out its authority and duties.
or personal training as required.
These can be found on the company website at During the course of the year the audit committee considered, www.
htm amongst other things, the following matters: iii Nomination committee The annual report and accounts and preliminary announcement, The nomination committee comprises Glen Moreno chairman, the interim statement and trading updates: Marjorie Scardino, David Arculus, Terry Burns, Patrick Cescau, Susan The Group accounting policies: Fuhrman and Ken Hydon, and meets as and when required.
During 2007 the committee met twice to consider the ongoing search for a The annual accounts being prepared on a going concern basis: new non-executive director.
The committee primarily monitors the The Form 20-F and related disclosures including the annual composition and balance of the board and its committees, and Sarbanes Oxley Act 404 attestation of financial reporting identifies and recommends to the board the appointment of new internal controls: directors.
Monitoring of the companys financial reporting, internal controls When considering the appointment of a new director the committee and risk management procedures: reviews the current balance of skills and experience of the board.
Review of company risk returns including Social, Ethical and Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this committee he is not Environmental SEE risks: permitted to chair meetings when the appointment of his successor is being considered or during discussion regarding his performance.
Assessment of the effectiveness of the companys risk management and internal control systems, including appropriate disclosure In accordance with the companys articles of association, directors are requirements: subject to reappointment at the AGM immediately following the date of their appointment, and thereafter must seek re-election no more The committees and internal audits terms of reference: than three years from the date they were last re-elected.
The committee The annual internal audit plan including resourcing of the internal will recommend to the board the names of the directors who are to audit function: seek re-election at the AGM.
29 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report continued The committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out iv Risk management its authority and duties.
These can be found on the company website Operating companies undertake formal, semi-annual risk reviews to at www.
htm identify new or potentially under-managed risks.
The results of these reviews are submitted to internal audit for evaluation and onward Internal control reporting to the board, via the audit committee.
Throughout the year, The board of directors has overall responsibility for Pearsons system risk sessions facilitated by internal audit are held with operating of internal control, which is designed to manage the risks facing the company management and with the Pearson Management Committee Group, safeguard assets and provide reasonable, but not absolute, to discuss and review the significant risks facing the business.
assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
v Internal audit In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the directors confirm The internal audit function is responsible for providing independent that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal assurance to management on the effectiveness of internal controls.
The annual internal audit plan, derived from a risk model, is approved by the audit committee.
Internal audit activity is supplemented by They also confirm there is an ongoing process allowing for the annual financial control self-assessment returns, completed by the identification, evaluation and management of significant business businesses.
Recommendations to improve internal controls and or risks.
This process accords with the revised Turnbull guidance and has to mitigate risks are agreed with operating company management been in place throughout 2007 and up to the date of approval of this after each audit.
Formal follow-up procedures allow internal audit annual report.
to monitor operating companies progress in implementing its The Groups internal control framework covers financial, operational recommendations and to resolve any control deficiencies.
The internal and compliance risks.
Its main features are described below: audit function also has a remit to monitor significant group projects, in conjunction with the central project management office, to provide i Board assurance that appropriate project governance and risk management The board of directors exercises its control through an organisational strategies are in place.
Regular reports on the work of internal audit structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority and are provided to executive management and, via the audit committee, appropriate reporting procedures.
To maintain effective control over to the board.
strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters the board meets regularly, and has a formal schedule of matters that is brought to The head of internal audit is jointly responsible with the group legal it, or its duly authorised committees, for attention.
Responsibility for counsel for monitoring compliance with our Code of Business monitoring financial management and reporting, internal control and Conduct, and investigating any reported incidents.
risk management has been delegated to the audit committee by the vi Treasury management board.
At each meeting, the audit committee considers reports from The treasury department operates within policies approved by management, internal audit and the external auditors, with the aim the board and its procedures are reviewed regularly by the audit of reviewing the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating committee.
Major transactions are authorised outside the department control environment of the Group.
at the requisite level, and there is an appropriate segregation of duties.
ii Operating company controls Frequent reports are made to the chief financial officer and regular The identification and mitigation of major business risks is the reports are prepared for the audit committee and the board.
responsibility of operating company management.
Each operating vii Insurance company, including the corporate centre, maintains internal controls Insurance is provided through Pearsons insurance subsidiary or and procedures appropriate to its structure and business environment, externally, depending on the scale of the risk and the availability of whilst complying with Group policies, standards and guidelines.
These cover in the external market, with the objective of achieving the most controls include those over external financial reporting which are cost effective balance between insured and uninsured risks.
documented and tested in accordance with the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is relevant to our US listing.
Going concern iii Financial reporting Having reviewed the Groups liquid resources and borrowing facilities, There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting and the Groups 2008 and 2009 cash flow forecasts, the directors system with an annual operating plan approved by the board of believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue as a going directors.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, concern.
For this reason, the financial statements have, as usual, been balance sheets, cash flow statements and indebtedness, is reported prepared on that basis.
against the corresponding figures for the plan and prior years, with corrective action outlined by operating company executives as appropriate.
Group senior management meet, on a quarterly basis, with operating company management to review their business and financial performance against plan and forecast.
Major business risks relevant to each operating company as well as performance against the stated strategic objectives are reviewed in these meetings.
In addition, the chief executive prepares a monthly report 11 times a year for the board on key developments, performance and issues in the business.
30 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Shareholder communication Supplier payment policy Pearson has an extensive programme of communication with all of its Operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and shareholders large and small, institutional and private.
We also make conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are a particular effort to communicate regularly with our employees, a conducted.
These supplier payment terms vary by operating company large majority of whom are shareholders in the company.
We post all reflecting the different industries and countries in which they operate.
company announcements on our website, www.
com, as soon It is company policy that suppliers are aware of such terms of payment as they are released, and major shareholder presentations are made and that payments to them are made in accordance with these, accessible via webcast or conference call.
Our website contains a provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms dedicated investor relations section with an extensive archive of past and conditions.
Group trade creditors at 31 December 2007 were announcements and presentations, historical financial performance, equivalent to 28 days of purchases during the year ended on that date.
share price data and a calendar of events.
It also includes information The company does not have any significant trade creditors and about all of our businesses, links to their websites, and details of our therefore is unable to disclose average supplier payment terms.
corporate responsibility policies and activities.
External giving We have an established programme of educational seminars for our During 2007, Pearsons cash charitable giving totalled 7.2m 2006: institutional shareholders focusing on individual parts of Pearson.
In addition to cash donations, Pearson also provides in-kind The seminars are available to all shareholders via webcast on support such as books, publishing expertise, advertising space and www.
Through the Pearson Foundation, we focus our charitable Our AGM which will be held on 25 April this year includes giving on education and literacy projects around the world.
opportunities to meet the companys managers, presentations about We encourage our employees to support their personal charities Pearsons businesses and the previous years results as well as general by matching donations and payroll giving and by providing AGM business.
More details can be found in our 2007 CSR report at People www.
com community csr report2007 During 2007, Pearson employed over 32,000 people in 60 countries.
Each business has detailed employment practices for recruitment, Share capital remuneration, employee relations, health and safety, and terms and Details of share issues are given in note 26 to the accounts on page 88. conditions designed for the different sectors and countries in which The company has a single class of shares which is divided into ordinary it operates.
The ordinary shares are in registered form.
We are committed to equality of opportunity for all regardless of The companys current authorised share capital is 298,500,000 gender, race, age, physical ability, religion or sexual orientation.
This comprising 1,194,000,000 ordinary shares of which 808,028,141 were applies equally to recruitment and to the promotion, development and issued as at 31 December 2007.
At the AGM held on 27 April 2007, training of people who are already part of Pearson.
The company takes the company was authorised, subject to certain conditions, to seriously its obligations to the disabled and seeks not to discriminate acquire up to 80 million of its ordinary shares by market purchase.
against current or prospective employees because of any disability.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the AGM on 25 April 2008.
We are always willing to make reasonable adjustments to premises or employment arrangements if these substantially disadvantage a At 29 February 2008, the company had been notified of the following disabled employee or prospective employee.
Every effort is made to substantial shareholdings 3% or more in the capital of the company.
find a suitable alternative job and, as necessary, training for those who Number of shares Percentage are unable to continue in their existing role due to disability.
Aviva plc 40,126,002 4.96% Pearson is committed to clear and timely communication with its Legal & General Group plc 33,336,528 4.12% people to ensure they understand the financial and economic factors that affect the performance of the company.
Pearson supports Templeton Global Advisors Ltd 56,508,060 6.99% employee representation to help positive employee relations.
We believe that the best way for employees to profit from the success of the company is for them to become shareholders.
Pearson operates worldwide share plans taking account of local country tax and securities regulations.
With most of our people based in the US, we have taken special care to make it easy for them to acquire shares in Pearson.
The listing of our shares on the New York Stock Exchange allows us to operate a US Employee Stock Purchase Plan that makes share ownership in Pearson accessible to the majority of our employees.
31 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report continued Annual general meeting Statement of directors responsibilities The notice convening the AGM to be held at 12 noon on Friday, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for 25 April 2008 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE, is contained in a circular of the Group as at the end of the year and of the profit or loss of the to shareholders to be dated 20 March 2008.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at Registered auditors any time, the financial position of the company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the In accordance with section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 and Companies Act 1985, Companies Act 2006 and the report on section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 resolutions proposing the directors remuneration.
reappointment of  LLP PwC as auditors to the company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level of remuneration They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group, to be agreed by the directors.
and hence for taking reasonable steps towards preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
In preparing the financial Auditor independence statements on pages 50 to 52 and 54 to 101 inclusive, the directors In line with best practice, our relationship with PwC, our independent consider that appropriate accounting policies have been used and auditor, is governed by our external auditor policy, which is reviewed applied in a consistent manner, supported by reasonable and prudent and approved annually by the audit committee.
The policy establishes judgements and estimates, and that all relevant accounting standards procedures to ensure the auditors independence is not compromised have been followed.
as well as defining those non-audit services that the independent The directors confirm that the auditors have concluded that the auditor may or may not provide to Pearson.
These allowable services directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
are in accordance with relevant UK and US legislation.
The directors also confirm that, for all directors in office at the date The audit committee approves all audit and non-audit services of this report: provided by the independent auditor.
Certain categories of allowable non-audit services have been pre-approved by the audit committee So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information subject to the authorities below: of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Pre-approved non-audit services can be authorised by the chief Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as financial officer up to 100,000 per project, subject to a cumulative directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit limit of 500,000 per annum: information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Acquisition due diligence services up to 100,000 per transaction: Approved by the board on 13 March 2008 and signed on its Tax compliance and related activities up to the greater of 1m per behalf by annum or 50% of the external audit fee: For forward looking tax planning services we use the most appropriate advisor, usually after a tender process.
Where we decide to use our independent auditor authority up to 100,000 per project, subject to a cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum Philip Hoffman, Secretary has been delegated by the audit committee to management.
Services provided by the independent auditor above these limits and all other allowable non-audit services, irrespective of value, must be approved by the audit committee.
Where appropriate, services will be tendered prior to awarding work to the auditor.
During 2007, Interactive Data appointed Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young as its independent auditor.
To maintain Ernst & Youngs independence we have restricted the services that Ernst & Young can provide to Pearson and its subsidiaries, similar to those we impose on PwC.
The audit committee receives regular reports summarising the amount of fees paid to the auditor.
A full statement of the fees for audit and services is provided in note 4 to the accounts on page 63.
32 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007
