Additional Information for Shareholders Amendment of articles of association No shareholder is, unless the board decide otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise Any amendments to the articles of association Articles of the any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he she or any company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section Companies Acts by way of special resolution.
A special resolution will 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public be put to the AGM to be held on 25 April 2008 to amend the Articles, companies the power to require information with respect to interests details of which are set out in the Notice of AGM.
in their voting shares and he she or any interested person failed to supply the company with the information requested within 14 days Rights attaching to shares after delivery of that notice.
The board may also decide, where the The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the relevant shareholding comprises at least 0.25% of the nominal value companys Articles.
A shareholder whose name appears on the of the issued shares of that class, that no dividend is payable in respect companys register of members can choose whether his shares are of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall evidenced by share certificates i. e. in certificated form or held in be registered.
electronic i. e. uncertificated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
The company operates two employee benefit trusts to hold shares, pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may attend any general companys employee share plans.
11,760,626 shares were so held meeting of the company and, on a show of hands, every shareholder as at 31 December 2007.
Each trust has an independent trustee or his her representative who is present at a general meeting has one which has full discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which they are A dividend waiver operates on the shares held in these trusts.
A resolution put to the vote at a general meeting is decided on a show of hands unless before, or on the The company also operates a nominee shareholding arrangement declaration of the result of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is known as Sharestore which holds shares on behalf of employees.
demanded by the chairman of the meeting, or by at least three 1,857,818 shares were so held as at 31 December 2007.
The trustees shareholders or their representatives present in person and having holding these shares seek voting instructions from the employee as the right to vote, or by any shareholders or their representatives beneficial owner, and voting rights are not exercised if no instructions present in person having at least 10% of the total voting rights of all are given.
shareholders, or by any shareholders or their representatives present in person holding ordinary shares on which an aggregate sum has been Transfer of shares paid up of at least 10% of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
The board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing an ordinary shares in the company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
resolution but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the amount The board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share recommended by the board.
The board can pay interim dividends on unless i the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods stampable, at the registered office of the company or any other place they decide, provided the distributable profits of the company justify decided by the board accompanied by the certificate for the share to such payment.
The board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution which it relates and such other evidence as the board may reasonably of the shareholders, offer any shareholder the right to elect to receive require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer, ii is new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of in respect of only one class of shares, and iii is in favour of not more their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it became Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the company, and the board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share unless the directors decide otherwise.
in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the Variation of rights shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company and he she If at any time the capital of the company is divided into different can value assets and determine how the division shall be carried out classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be varied as between the members or different classes of members.
or revoked either: The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the members.
i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the class: or Voting at general meetings ii with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general Any form of proxy sent by the company to shareholders in relation meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
to any general meeting must be delivered to the company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before Without guidance to any special rights previously conferred on the the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting holders of any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
issued with such preferred, deferred, or other special rights, or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine.
33 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Additional Information for Shareholders continued Appointment and replacement of directors Significant agreements Directors shall number no less than two.
Directors may be appointed The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the by the company by ordinary resolution or by the board.
A director counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of appointed by the board shall hold office only until the next AGM and a change of control of the company: shall then be eligible for reappointment, but shall not be taken into under the $1,750,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement account in determining the directors or the number of directors who dated July 2004 as amended with a final maturity date of July 2012 are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
The board may from time to between, amongst others, the company, HSBC Bank plc as facility time appoint one or more directors to hold executive office with the agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as company for such period subject to the provisions of the Companies lenders together, the Credit Facilities, the facility agent must, Acts and upon such terms as the board may decide and may revoke upon a change of control, cancel the total commitments of the or terminate any appointment so made.
lenders under such Credit Facilities and declare all outstanding At every AGM of the company, one-third of the directors shall retire advances, together with accrued interest and any other amounts by rotation or, if their number is not a multiple of three, the number payable in respect of such Credit Facilities, to be immediately due nearest to one-third.
The first directors to retire by rotation shall be and payable.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if the those who wish to retire and not offer themselves for reappointment.
company becomes a subsidiary of any other company or one or Any further directors so to retire shall be those of the other directors more persons acting either individually or in concert, obtains subject to retirement by rotation who have been longest in office control as defined in Section 840 of the Income and Corporation since their last appointment but, as between persons who became or Taxes Act 1988 of the company.
were last appointed on the same day, those to retire shall unless they under the $975,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
In addition, dated July 2007 as amended by an agreement dated February any director who would not otherwise be required to retire shall retire 2008, under which the facility will reduce to $300,000,000 in by rotation at the third AGM after his last appointment.
December 2008 with a final maturity date of September 2009 The company may by ordinary resolution remove any director between, amongst others, the company, Barclays Bank PLC before the expiration of his term of office.
In addition, the board as facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named may terminate an agreement or arrangement with any director therein as lenders together, the Credit Facilities, the facility agent for the provision of his services to the company.
must, upon a change of control, cancel the total commitments of the lenders under such Credit Facilities and declare all outstanding Powers of the directors advances, together with accrued interest and any other amounts payable in respect of such Credit Facilities, to be immediately due Subject to the companys memorandum of association and the and payable.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by special company becomes a subsidiary of any other company or one or resolution, the business of the company will be managed by the more persons acting either individually or in concert, obtains board who may exercise all the powers of the company, including control as defined in Section 840 of the Income and Corporation powers relating to the issue and or buying back of shares by the Taxes Act 1988 of the company.
company, subject to any statutory restrictions or restrictions imposed by shareholders in general meeting.
shares acquired through the companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of these plans set out the consequences of a change of control of the company.
34 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007
