01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:37 Page 28 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW PENNON GROUP Modelling future power generation requires consideration of a INTERPRETATION number of factors including the waste mass and composition already in place and volumes of gas currently being extracted.
In addition, the model requires an assessment of how the current position is LANDFILL VOID SPACE AND POWER GENERATION expected to change throughout each sites remaining life as an CALCULATIONS operational landfill and beyond into the aftercare period.
Any such assessment requires certain assumptions to be made including in The landfill void space figures quoted in this review in relation to relation to the amount of waste in the site, its biodegradable Viridor are in respect of consented void only void with planning content, the age of the waste and the likelihood of obtaining a grid permission for landfilling.
connection at an economic cost.
The void space figures are based upon Viridors most recent assessment of void available to the company for waste and daily FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS cover materials.
The void figures have been assessed using preThis Business Review contains forward looking statements regarding settlement levels based upon the extent of the planning consent, the financial position, results of operations, cash flows, dividends, proposed base levels based upon the terms of the site licence financing plans, business strategies, operating efficiencies, capital permit and existing waste surfaces determined by survey.
These and other expenditures, competitive positions, growth calculations necessarily involve an element of management opportunities, plans and objectives of management and other judgement and are based on certain other assumptions such as the matters.
These forward looking statements, including, without waste mix profile of a site.
However, Viridor is of the opinion that limitation, those relating to the future business prospects, its calculation methodologies are in line with convention typical in revenues, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs the landfill industry.
The void actually available at any one time may and income in relation to the Pennon Group and its subsidiaries, be different from the figures quoted.
wherever they occur in this Business Review, are necessarily based on assumptions reflecting the views of Pennon Group and its Gas electricity generating capacity of Viridor is defined by the subsidiary companies, as appropriate.
They involve a number of risks Megawatt capacity of the engines installed on landfill sites through and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially which the gas passes to generate electricity.
from those suggested by the forward looking statements.
Such forward looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of relevant factors, including those set out in the sections entitled Risks and uncertainties on pages 10 to 13, 19 to 21 and 27.
