01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:36 Page 6 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTH WEST WATER BUSINESS AND STRATEGY REGULATORY & COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT South West Water is the licensed water and sewerage service APPOINTMENTS provider for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset.
In 1989, the UK Government appointed companies appointees It serves a region of nearly 10,300 square kilometres with 1.65 million to provide water and waste water services the Appointments.
residents and around eight million annual visitors.
It distributes Economic regulation pursuant to the Appointments is the over 440 million litres of treated water per day and disposes of responsibility of Ofwat.
around 250 million litres of waste water each day through an asset base comprising: The Appointments impose conditions which Ofwat enforces, along with the appointees principal duties under the Water Industry Act.
15,000 kms Distribution mains An Appointment may be terminated on 25 years notice by the 9,100 kms Sewers Secretary of State, with more immediate revocation in certain 16 Impounding reservoirs specified circumstances including, for example, failure to comply 39 Water treatment works with an enforcement order made by Ofwat.
623 Waste water treatment works The water industry is also subject to Government direction and including 52 works with ultra violet treatment and two with legislation in relation to investment requirements and social membrane filtration policy for example the protection of vulnerable customers.
From a customer interest perspective, water industry activities are also reviewed by the Consumer Council for Water, a separate Since privatisation, the company has successfully delivered the statutory body.
largest capital programme per capita of any of the privatised water and sewerage companies with a particular focus on improving PRICE CAP REGULATION coastal waste water treatment and disposal.
The region currently has 144 EU designated bathing waters, almost one third of the total in Ofwat regulates water and waste water charges by determining England and Wales.
the maximum increase in charges which a company can impose in any year.
The water regulator conducts a Periodic Review and sets South West Water expects to create value through delivering the price limits every five years.
Prices are set by reference to inflation as regulatory contract agreed with Ofwat now the Water Services measured by the Retail Price Index RPI plus an adjustment factor Regulatory Authority.
The contract scope is reviewed at five-yearly known as K which is specific for each company and which can vary intervals.
As well as determining outputs, Ofwat sets prices, inter alia, for each year of the Review period.
The size of a companys K factor to enable efficient companies to earn a reasonable rate of return on which can be positive, negative or zero reflects the scale of its their assets.
In the K4 Determination April 2005 to March 2010, capital investment programme, the cost of capital determined by the Ofwat assumed that the equity cost of capital for all companies would water regulator and its operational and environmental obligations be 7.7% real after tax with an overall weighted average cost of capital offset by assumed efficiency improvements required of the company.
Ofwats Determination allows for further Ofwat instituted a system of comparative competition which compares investment by South West Water to improve the quality of water and South West Waters performance on a wide range of parameters, sewerage services.
As a result, the companys Regulatory Capital Value including efficiency, customer service, and environmental is expected to increase from around 1.95 billion in March 2005 to performance.
Operating and capital cost comparisons are used by circa 2.6 billion in March 2010.
This will enlarge the base on which the Ofwat to determine the level of efficiency improvement which might return to shareholders is calculated.
be achieved at each Periodic Review.
Additional value may be created where South West Water Companies are incentivised to be efficient both in terms of their outperforms Ofwats assumptions by, for example, delivering operating costs and in the implementation of their capital services at lower operating and or capital costs and or financing expenditure programmes.
The benefit of any efficiency savings the investment programme and operation at lower cost.
achieved through effective management in excess of those assumed by the water regulator is retained by the companies for a period generally of five years.
After that time the benefit is passed to customers.
The cost of any underperformance due to poor management is borne by the companies.
Companies are also incentivised to provide a high quality service and penalised if they provide a poor quality service by means of an adjustment to the K factor at the subsequent Periodic Review.
