01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:37 Page 16 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW VIRIDOR Gas produced from decomposing waste on landfill sites is increasingly VIRIDORS MAIN UK OPERATIONS used to generate electricity.
It is a form of renewable energy and now AS AT 31 MARCH 2007 Landfill Site operational represents around 25% of the UKs total renewable energy generation.
Landfill Site with Planning The Governments strategy is to increase the percentage of electricity Power generation plant generated from renewable sources from the current figure of a little Glass recycling plant over 4% to a target of 10% in 2010 and 15% in 2015, with an Transport depot aspiration of 20% in 2020.
Historically, renewable energy projects were supported by the Government through the non fossil fuel obligation Transfer station NFFO scheme.
Fixed price Retail Price Index RPI contracts with Incineration plant terms of up to 15 years were awarded to the most competitive MRF plant renewable projects in five tranches of bidding.
In April 2002, the NFFO Glass recycling depot regime was replaced by the renewable obligation certificates ROCs Waste treatment plant regime.
The overall price for electricity supplied under ROCs is currently Composting site higher than that achieved under the most recent NFFO scheme.
This has facilitated the increasing of Viridors total generation capacity to a Household waste recycling site current 75 MW at 31 March 2007, compared with 28MW in March 2002.
Preferred bidder for Manchester PFI 50% of this is under NFFO and 50% ROCs.
Areas covered by PFIs and PPPs To take advantage of opportunities presented by the Governments developing waste strategy, Viridor is pursuing composting, energy from waste,  treatment, civic amenity or household waste recycling sites HWRS and other recycling opportunities.
These may be combined in integrated waste management contracts.
In pursuing its strategy, Viridor seeks to grow its waste management business, both organically and through acquisition.
It has continued to be an active participant in the consolidation of the UK waste market to date and, since October 2001, has made 11 acquisitions in the waste sector for an aggregate consideration of approximately 190 million.
They have been integrated into the Viridor group.
Viridors landfill market consists of municipal, commercial and REGULATORY AND COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT industrial wastes along with certain other special types of waste.
Landfill is currently the major final disposal route for these wastes.
The UK is required under the EU Landfill Directive to reduce the amount The amount of biodegradable municipal waste in the UK as a whole of biodegradable municipal waste going to landfill sites as follows: going to landfill is expected to decline.
This is a result of the measures taken by the Government to encourage recycling and comply with the requirements of the EU Landfill Directive.
Municipal waste volumes to 75% of 1995 level by 2010 comprise around one third of Viridors landfill market.
However, to 50% of 1995 level by 2013 according to the Environment Agencys EA most recent estimates, to 35% of 1995 level by 2020. there remains the equivalent of only around six years overall consented landfill capacity in the UK as a whole and new planning Municipal waste accounts for around one third of Viridors permissions are difficult to achieve, particularly for greenfield sites.
In view of the above, Viridor believes that consented landfill void is an increasingly valuable asset.
The alternatives to landfill sites for final waste disposal in the UK are currently limited.
In order to meet the requirements of the Landfill Viridor is one of the largest landfill site operators in the UK with a total Directive, local authorities have been set statutory targets by the consented landfill capacity of approximately 90 million cubic metres at Government for the recycling of household waste and must also 31 March 2007.
The company is at present filling this at a rate of implement strategies for the diversion of biodegradable municipal approximately 6 million cubic metres per annum which results in an waste from landfill.
average remaining life of 15 years at current rates of fill significantly longer than the industry as a whole.
This capacity is located as shown on the map above.
16 01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:37 Page 17 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW VIRIDOR Each waste disposal authority has been allocated an allowance of the In a number of instances, these will be financed under PFI amount of biodegradable waste it may dispose of to landfill for the arrangements where local authorities apply to the Government for years 2005 to 2020.
These allowances are designed to ensure that the funding of capital projects which fall within the eligibility criteria.
UK as a whole achieves the requirements of the EU Landfill Directive.
Successful applicants receive cash funds known as PFI credits which Subject to some constraints, local authorities can carry forward or do not have to be repaid and can be used by the local authority to fund trade allowances under the Landfill Allowance Trading Scheme LATS.
a proportion of the capital and operating expenditures needed for Any authority exceeding its allocation without such an allowance faces the project.
a penalty of 150 per tonne in addition to the cost of disposing of the waste.
This is expected to result in the introduction of alternative Councils may also choose to let long-term contracts using PPP disposal processes at higher cost than current routes.
Under this, they forego the complexities of securing PFI credits.
From the waste management contractors point of view, The Government introduced landfill tax as a further incentive to divert the nature of the contract is very similar whether it is a PFI or a PPP.
Landfill tax applies to all waste disposed of at a licensed landfill site, unless the waste is specifically exempt, such as Considerable investment potentially as high as 30 billion by 2020 as soil from historically contaminated sites.
Landfill tax is chargeable by estimated by the Institution of Civil Engineers will be required by the weight.
For inert waste, landfill tax is chargeable at 2 per tonne UK to meet municipal waste landfill diversion targets.
A standard rate of 24 per tonne applies to all other taxable waste which is due to rise by 8 per tonne Viridor has been operating a PFI contract with West Sussex County per annum to reach a level of 48 per tonne in 2010 11.
Planning for landfill sites and waste and recycling infrastructure In May 2006, Viridor signed a 25 year PPP with Somerset County Council, at the same time acquiring Somersets Local Authority Waste All waste management facilities, including the development of new Disposal Company LAWDC, Wyvern Waste Services.
landfill sites and expansion of existing landfill sites, are subject to planning permission from the relevant In February 2007, a joint venture between Viridor and local authority.
Landfill sites and hazardous waste John Laing Infrastructure Limited was chosen as facilities also require a Pollution Prevention and preferred bidder for the Greater Manchester Waste Control PPC permit from the EA.
Disposal Authority PFI and, subject to contract, operations are expected to commence later this year.
Viridor believes that good environmental management is important in winning future planning consents.
It has Viridor recognises that there is a range of risks associated achieved ISO 14001 Environmental Management with entering into such contracts, which are often for a Systems accreditation at all of its key sites.
However, subject to a careful assessment of the risks on a contract by contract basis, the company will Planning applications are subject to rigorous assessment continue seeking to secure such contracts.
by local authorities who will consider them against the backdrop of policies contained within waste local plans Waste Regulation Environment that have been compiled for their areas.
Applications have to address a wide range of issues and the EA is a EU directives and related UK legislation, as well as statutory consultee in this process.
planning and licensing, are referred to above.
Integrated municipal waste management contracts and The EA and the Scottish Environment Protection Agency the role of Private Finance Initiatives PFIs or Public SEPA monitor performance against permit conditions Private Partnerships PPPs and general environmental law.
Breaches are subject to prosecution.
The EA and SEPA can also require the To assist in meeting their landfill diversion operator to undertake upgrades to ensure future targets, local authorities are seeking to let compliance and, where a pollution incident has integrated waste management contracts occurred, clean-up action to covering a range of activities often be undertaken.
including HWRS, composting, recycling and recovery, waste transfer and bulk Waste facilities are also subject to the transport and final disposal both same regulations as other industries, incineration and landfill.
including health and safety, control of goods hazardous to health and the Working Time Directive.
In addition, the transport of waste is subject to specific controls.
