01-32 14 June 14 6 07 15:22 Page 30 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW PENNON GROUP STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION TO AUDITORS a So far as each of the Directors in office at the date of PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW the signing of the report are aware, there is no relevant The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries audit information of which the Companys auditors are the Group continue to be the provision of water and waste water unaware, and services and waste management.
Information regarding the Group, including important events and its progress during the year, events b each of the Directors has taken all the steps each Director since the year end and likely future developments is contained in the ought to have taken individually as a director in order to Business Review set out on pages 2 to 21 of this Directors Report.
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information In addition, the Business Review contains a fair review of the and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware business of the Group, key performance indicators and a description of that information.
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in accordance with the requirements of Section 234ZZB of the FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Companies Act 1985 as well as further information on employee, Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the environmental, social and community matters, reflecting the Group and the exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 due to flow risks are set out in the Business Review on pages 24 and 25. come into force on 1 October 2007.
The principal subsidiaries of the Company are listed in note 38 to the EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT financial statements on page 90.
The Group has a culture of continuous improvement through investment in people at all levels within the Group.
The Group is FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDEND committed to pursuing equality and diversity in all its employment Group profit on ordinary activities after taxation was 93.9 million.
activities including recruitment, training, career development and The Directors recommend a final dividend of 12.7p per ordinary share promotion and ensuring there is no bias or discrimination in the to shareholders on the register on 10 August 2007, making a total for treatment of people.
In particular, applications for employment are the year of 18.55p, the cost of which will be 66.0 million, leaving a welcomed from disabled persons and special arrangements and retained surplus of 27.9 million.
The Business Review on pages adjustments as necessary are made to ensure that disabled applicants 2 to 29 analyses the results in more detail and sets out other financial are treated fairly when attending for interview or for pre-employment information, including the Directors opinion on asset values aptitude tests.
Wherever possible, the opportunity is taken to retrain page 24. people who become disabled during their employment in order to maintain their employment within the Group.
DIRECTORS Employees are consulted regularly about changes which may affect Bob Baty retired as Chief Executive of South West Water Limited and them either through their Trade Union appointed representatives or by from the Board on 31 July 2006.
Chris Loughlin was appointed as Bob means of the elected Staff Council which operates in South West Water Baty's successor and as a Director on 1 August 2006. for staff employees.
These forums, together with regular meetings with particular groups of employees, are used to ensure that employees are Following his appointment by the Board, Chris Loughlin is due to kept up to date with the operating and financial performance of their retire and offers himself for election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Group also uses a monthly information cascade process Gerard Connell is also due to retire at the Annual General Meeting and to provide employees with important and up to date information about offers himself for re-election.
In addition, as Ken Harvey has now been key events.
a Director for over nine years, in accordance with the Combined Code he now offers himself for re-election annually.
Resolutions for the The Group encourages share ownership amongst its employees by above Directors election or re-election as appropriate will be operating both an Inland Revenue approved sharesave scheme and a proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has, or has had, a Share Incentive Plan.
material interest, directly or indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any contract significant to the Companys business.
Further information relating to employee matters is set out in the Business Review on pages 9, 10, 18, 19 and 26.
A list of all the Directors during the year is set out in the emoluments table on page 36.
Further details relating to the Directors and their RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT service contracts or contracts for services are set out on pages 33 to 39 and details of the Directors interests in shares of the Company are Research and development activities within the Group involving water given on pages 38 and 39. and waste treatment processes amounted to 0.1 million during the year 2005 06 0.1 million.
30 01-32 14 June:01-32 14 June 15 6 07 00:31 Page 31 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW PENNON GROUP DONATIONS AUDITORS During the year, donations amounting to 49,600 were made.
 LLP were appointed auditors until the Details relating to charitable and other donations will be set out in the conclusion of the eighteenth Annual General Meeting.
A resolution Corporate Responsibility Report which will be available at the end of for their re-appointment upon the recommendation of the Audit July 2007.
No political donations were made.
Committee of the Board will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
TAX STATUS APPOINTED BUSINESS The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income South West Water Limited is required to publish additional financial and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. information relating to the appointed business as water and sewerage undertaker in accordance with the Instrument of Appointment from the Secretary of State for the Environment.
A copy of this information will PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS be available from 13 July 2007 upon application to the Company It is the Groups payment policy for the year ending 31 March 2008 to Secretary at Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR.
follow the Code of The Better Payment Practice Group on supplier payments.
Information about the Code can be obtained from ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING www.
co. uk The eighteenth Annual General Meeting will be held at the Plymouth The Company will agree payment terms with individual suppliers in Pavilions, Millbay Road, Plymouth, Devon PL1 3LF on 26 July 2007 advance and abide by such terms.
The ratio, expressed in days, at 11.00am.
between the amount invoiced to the Company by its suppliers during In addition to routine business, resolutions will be proposed at the 2006 07 and the amount owed to its trade creditors at 31 March 2007, Annual General Meeting to: was 17 days.
renew the existing authorities to issue a limited number of PURCHASE OF OWN ORDINARY SHARES shares and to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital of The Company completed the redemption of the outstanding B Shares the Company for a total of 5.7 million in April 2006.
Accordingly circa 145 million seek authority to make political donations under the Political has now been returned through a B Share issue.
Details of the Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 B Share Scheme were set out in the Circular to Shareholders approve a new long-term incentive plan the Pennon Group dated 23 January 2006.
Performance and Co-ownership Plan The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase up to elect Mr C Loughlin as a Director of the Company 10% of its own ordinary shares as renewed at the Annual General re-elect Messrs K G Harvey and G D Connell as Directors of Meeting in 2006 which was valid as at 31 March 2007 and remains the Company currently valid.
In connection with the return of cash to shareholders as set out in the Circular to shareholders dated 23 January 2006, the amend the Articles of Association to provide further for electronic Company during 2006 07 purchased from the market for cancellation communications with shareholders and to clarify the provisions 785,000 part adjusted for three for one share split ordinary shares relating to the retirement and the re-appointment of Directors.
40.7p at a cost of 3.5 million amounting to approximately 0.22% Details of the resolutions are set out in the separate Notice of Annual of its issued ordinary shares.
Since the year end the Company has General Meeting circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report.
purchased from the market up to and including 13 June 2007 a further 376,800 ordinary shares at a cost of 2.35 million amounting By Order of the Board to approximately 0.11% of its issued ordinary shares 40.7p.
KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary These shares are held in Treasury for the purposes of employee share 22 June 2007 schemes.
In total, as at 13 June 2007, the Company has purchased 1,161,800 part adjusted for the three for one share split ordinary shares 40.7p at a total cost of 5.82 million amounting to approximately 0.33% of its issued ordinary shares 40.7p.
A total of 459,386 part adjusted for the three for one share split ordinary shares 40.7p were also purchased during the year by the Pennon Employee Share Trust, Pennon Share Plans Guernsey Limited, for the Group Long-Term Incentive Plans.
The total purchase price was 2.3 million and the shares amounted to approximately 0.13% of the Companys issued ordinary shares 40.7p.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Details are set out in the Shareholder information section on page 95.
