01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:36 Page 4 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTH WEST WATER SOUTH WEST WATER Chris Loughlin Chief Executive South West Water Limited SOUTH WEST WATER CONTINUED TO MAKE EXCELLENT PROGRESS IN DELIVERING IMPROVEMENTS TO CUSTOMER SERVICE AND ACHIEVING REGULATORY PERFORMANCE TARGETS Clean Sweep was a massive capital investment programme which OVERVIEW dominated the companys activities for the best part of two decades.
As this nears completion, it is appropriate to look towards the future The companys revenue increased by 33.0 million to 381.5 million.
direction of the company and the many challenges it faces.
This is Ofwat approved tariff increases and 7,100 new customer connections, particularly important as we begin planning for the next Periodic Review offset by customers switching to metered tariffs and a 2.9% decrease in for the period 2010-15.
We want to strike the right balance for the measured demand, were the main drivers of this change.
Over 57% of future between investment to improve our services, financeability and, our domestic customers now receive a metered supply.
This is a particular challenge we are determined to meet.
We must also meet the ongoing governmental and South West Waters operating profit rose by 10.8% before exceptional regulatory requirements whilst preparing for potential climate change costs in 2005 06 to 156.8 million.
The coming years should nevertheless see a shift away from depreciation, increased by 11.9 million to 147.0 million.
The increase capital delivery to achieve new standards driven by legislation, towards was driven by additional costs from new capital schemes of 2.7 million, a more customer-focused agenda.
inflation of 10.2 million including additional power costs of 5.5 million and other cost increases of 2.0 million including As we embark on new challenges, we must build on what has been an infrastructure expenditure charged to operating costs.
The cost of bad outstanding year across the company.
debts part of which is charged against revenue is rising more slowly than the tariff increase.
These inflationary pressures were partially This has been our tenth consecutive year without water restrictions.
offset by continued good progress on operational efficiencies with The company has put in place a comprehensive strategy to help ensure some 3.0 million achieved in the year and 7.0 million so far in K4.
a continued secure supply of water for the region.
Three of the The company remains on track to deliver the demanding efficiency companys key reservoirs were again replenished during the winter targets, set by Ofwat at the last price Determination, over the by pumping water from downstream river flows to supplement the 2005-2010 period.
Capital expenditure was 184.0 million with natural rainwater inflow.
The pump infrastructure was installed over 70.0 million being spent on quality schemes, principally several years ago to provide enhanced drought protection.
To improve water resource flexibility, significant additional water resources in Cornwall were secured through the purchase This is my first contribution to the Pennon Group Annual Report since of a former china clay pit to be named Park Lake.
It will become succeeding Bob Baty as Chief Executive last August.
The achievements the regions fourth-largest reservoir.
delivered during my predecessors time have been outstanding.
In particular, the hugely successful Clean Sweep waste water We achieved our best ever leakage performance.
We have achieved or programme has transformed the quality of the very special coastal beaten our leakage target in every year since targets were introduced and estuarial environment of the South West.
4 01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:36 Page 5 A further 638km of water mains were replaced or relined during the year as part of the companys Putting the Sparkle Back into Your Water programme, agreed with the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI for completion by 2010.
Drinking water quality compliance for calendar year 2006, as monitored by the DWI, equalled the highest ever 99.96% level achieved in 2005.
The success of Clean Sweep is evident from our achieving 100% compliance with mandatory bathing water standards for the first time 99% in 2005 at the 144 bathing waters in our area.
Compliance with the even higher guideline standards has also improved to 92% from 89% the year before.
The extent of this achievement can be measured against only 51% compliance with the guideline standard ten years ago.
The percentage population equivalent see Glossary, page 29, for description connected to sanitary compliant waste water treatment works was the highest ever at 99.6%.
Service, a major project to improve the service to customers in relation to the companys day to day operational activities and to reduce costs, was launched in October 2006.
The new Service Centre in Exeter utilises the latest mobile computing technology to give quicker, more accurate information to customers on service issues as well as better prioritising the work of field operations staff.
The benefits of the new system are already being seen, with a significant reduction in the number of repeat contacts from customers.
Watercare, a ground-breaking new customer care programme, was launched early in 2007 targeted at helping those most in need to pay their bills by advising them on how to manage better both their water use and household budget.
Trained advisors are meeting with around 2,500 qualifying customers a year in their homes and offering a range of free services including home water audits, advice on potential savings from fitting a meter and advice on receiving financial benefits to which they are entitled.
The identification of customers who would benefit from moving on to special payment plan enables them to make regular affordable payments, thereby reducing the companys outstanding debt.
Ofwats 2005 06 Levels of Service Report confirms that South West Water has maintained last years step change improvement in its Overall Performance Assessment OPA ranking, maintaining its 6th position out of the 10 water and sewerage companies.
We expect this position to be consolidated when 2006 07 scores are published later this year.
In preparing for the forthcoming periodic review of prices in 2009, a number of initiatives are under way to ensure that South West Water is prepared for the new challenges that lie ahead.
The customer contact billing contract will be re-tendered during 2007 and the company will build on the success of Service.
The role of tariff structures in addressing the agenda of affordability and sustainability is also being reviewed.
To meet the twin objectives of service excellence and operational efficiency, South West Water has launched a long-term project, Puros, to move the organisation towards a more centralised operational structure employing increased levels of automation and remote working.
In the shorter term, a new rightsourcing review is under way to determine the optimal combination of internal and external resource provision.
It is expected that the cost of 3 million to 4 million of ongoing organisational restructuring will be provided for in 2007 08.
Looking forward, we are determined to improve further our customer service and deliver new operational efficiencies.
I am confident that with the quality and commitment of the people we have in place and the improvement programmes that they are focused on, we will build on our achievements to date.
