01-32 14 June 14 6 07 23:48 Page 32 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Kenneth George Harvey BSc, CEng, 66 Gerard Dominic Connell MA, 49 Chairman Senior Independent Non-executive Director Was appointed on 1 March 1997.
Ken was formerly Was appointed on 1 October 2003.
Gerard is currently group chairman and chief executive of Norweb Plc.
He was finance director of Wincanton Plc.
Previously he was a chairman of National Grid Holdings in 1995 and was director of Hill Samuel and a managing director of Bankers previously deputy chairman of London Electricity and Trust and has held other corporate finance and business earlier its engineering director.
He has also been chairman development positions in the City and in industry.
of a number of limited and private equity funded companies.
Katharine Mary Hope Mortimer MA, BPhil, 61 Currently he is the senior independent non-executive Non-executive Director director of National Grid Plc.
Kate is currently a Colin Irwin John Hamilton Drummond freelance financial consultant, a member of the Crown MA, MBA, LTCL, CCMI, 56 Agents Foundation Council and a director of Crown Agents Chief Executive, Viridor Limited Bank Limited.
She was formerly a director of N M Rothschild Was appointed on 1 April 1992.
Prior to joining the & Sons Limited, director of policy at the Securities and Company Colin was a divisional chief executive of Coats Investments Board, chief executive of Walker Books and Viyella, having previously been corporate development was a member of the Competition Commission between director of Renold plc, a strategy consultant with the Boston 1995 and 2001.
Consulting Group and an official of the Bank of England.
Dinah Alison Nichols CB, BA Hons, 63 He is chairman of the Governments Environmental Sector Non-executive Director Advisory Group and chairman of the Sectors Knowledge Was appointed on 12 June 2003.
Dinah was formerly Transfer Network and he is also Master of the Worshipful director general environment at the Department for Company of Water Conservators.
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and previously held David Jeremy Dupont MA, MBA, 53 various senior appointments within Government Group Director of Finance departments including being head of the water directorate Was appointed on 2 March 2002.
David was formerly during the period of water privatisation.
She is also a crown regulatory and finance director of South West Water estate commissioner, a non-executive director of Shires Limited, having joined Pennon Group Plc then South Smaller Companies Plc, chair of the National Forest West Water Plc in 1992 as strategic planning manager.
Company, a chair of Groundwork North London and a Previously he held business planning and development director of several Trusts.
He is a member of the CBI Environmental Affairs Committee and the CBI South West Regional Council.
Christopher Loughlin BSc Hons, MICE, CEng, MBA, 54 Chief Executive, South West Water Limited Was appointed on 1 August 2006.
Chris was most recently chief operating officer with Lloyds Register and previously was an executive director of British Nuclear Fuels Plc and executive chairman of Magnox Electric Plc.
Chris started his career as a chartered engineer and subsequently held a number of senior positions with British Nuclear Fuels.
He has been appointed vice chairman of Water UK from May 2007.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Audit Nomination Group General Counsel Gerard Connell Chairman Ken Harvey Chairman & Company Secretary Kate Mortimer Gerard Connell Ken Woodier, Solicitor Dinah Nichols Kate Mortimer Registered office Dinah Nichols Corporate Responsibility Replaced Peninsula House, Remuneration Environment in November 2006 Rydon Lane, Kate Mortimer Chairman Dinah Nichols Chairman Exeter Gerard Connell Gerard Connell EX2 7HR Ken Harvey from 1 June 2007 Colin Drummond Registered in England No 2366640 Dinah Nichols Chris Loughlin Kate Mortimer 32
