01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:36 Page 15 Construction of the Lakeside energy from waste EfW plant in joint venture with Grundon Waste Management Limited, also reported last year, continues on schedule with the plant due to open in the second half of calendar 2008.
In February 2007, Viridor acquired Skipaway Holdings Limited for 14.7 million.
This acquisition comprises three transfer stations with associated waste collection and recycling in Kent.
It fits well with the activities of Brett which Viridor acquired last year.
Landfill inputs excluding cover were 9% higher in 2006 07 compared with the previous year, at 4.7 million tonnes.
Excluding the effect of acquisitions, underlying landfill volumes were unchanged.
Average revenues per tonne increased by 7% and margins continued to improve to over 6 per tonne.
Consented landfill void grew from 87 million cubic metres last year end to 90 million cubic metres at 31 March 2007.
This reflected acquisitions 5 million cubic metres and planning gain at four sites 4 million cubic metres, less usage in the year 6 million cubic metres.
Viridors landfill gas power generation output increased by 15% to 423 Gigawatt hours GWh.
Reflecting the general increase in underlying energy prices and the renewable premium in the UK, Viridors average revenues per Megawatt hour increased by 4% to 62 though current prices in 2007 08 are lower.
At 31 March 2007, Viridors landfill gas power generation capacity was 75MW compared with 61MW at the previous year end both figures exclude a small amount of sub-contract capacity.
Viridor continues to explore suitable Private Finance Initiative PFI Public Private Partnership PPP opportunities as part of its overall strategy.
In January 2007, Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority announced that the Viridor Waste Management Limited John Laing Infrastructure Limited consortium had been selected as preferred bidder for its 1.4 million tonnes p. a.
25 year waste management services contract.
Final negotiations are under way with the contract due to commence in the current financial year.
At the same time Viridor is one of Greater Manchesters nominated landfill contractors for five years from 2008.
The Governments target of diverting municipal waste from landfill up to 2020 may be expected over time to lead to a decline in the landfill market.
However, with only around six years consented capacity in the UK as a whole Environment Agency estimate and new consents difficult to achieve, Viridors 90 million cubic metres is likely to become an increasingly valuable resource.
Whilst open-market renewable energy prices in 2007 08 are below 2006 07 peaks, as the UK increasingly relies on imports of energy and seeks to grow its output of renewables, Viridors gas business is also expected to remain a valuable asset.
Meanwhile, the need for councils to achieve their diversion targets creates attractive opportunities for PFI PPP contracts such as Viridors with West Sussex and Somerset and, subject to contract, with Greater Manchester, and for facilities such as the Lakeside EfW plant.
BUSINESS AND STRATEGY Viridor is a leading provider of essential waste treatment, recycling and disposal services in the UK.
It has core competencies in landfill disposal, recycling and generation of electricity from landfill gas.
The company has a waste collection fleet focusing primarily on the industrial and commercial market and also operates materials recycling facilities, waste transfer stations, treatment plants, household waste recycling civic amenity sites and composting facilities in a number of regions in the UK.
Viridors strategy is to add value by: capitalising on its strong position in landfill waste disposal exploiting opportunities in landfill gas power generation in line with the Governments target of increasing the proportion of electricity generated from renewable sources pursuing profitable opportunities arising from the Governments developing waste strategy including PFI PPP contracts and integrated waste management contracts.
