Persimmon Plc 38 Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the Financial Statements Directors and Directors interests for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Directors of the Company during the whole of 2007 were Messrs White, Farley, Killoran, Bryant, Leslie Melville, Thompson, Principal activities Davidson and Wrigley.
Their biographical details are shown on page 37.
The principal activity of the Group is house building, which is carried Adam Applegarth was also a Director of the Company during 2007 out within England, Wales and Scotland and is unchanged from last year.
until he resigned on 29 October 2007.
None of the Directors have any The Group trades under the brand names of Persimmon Homes, Charles contracts of signicance with the Company.
Church, City Developments, Westbury Partnerships and Space4.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2007 and as at the date of this report Business review are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 47.
Details of the A review of the development and performance of the Groups business interests of the Directors in share options and awards of shares can be during the year and the position at the end of the year may be found found on pages 46 and 47 within the same Report.
in the Business Review on pages 8 to 35 and in the Key Performance Indicators shown on the inside front cover and pages 24, 25, 28 and 32 Substantial shareholdings to 35 of this Annual Report.
The Company has been notified, pursuant to Disclosure & Transparency A description of the Groups future prospects, research and development, Rule 5, of the following interests of 3% or more of the voting rights of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and details of any the Company as at 25 February 2008: financial instruments are also contained within the Business Review.
Number of Nature of ordinary shares Percentage holding Results and dividend payment Lloyds TSB Group Plc 27,331,571 9.11% Indirect The Groups revenue and profit before taxation were 3,014.9m and AXA SA 16,397,639 5.46% Direct 582.7m respectively.
An interim dividend of 18.5p per share was paid to & Indirect shareholders on 19 October 2007 and it is proposed to pay a final Prudential plc group of companies 15,423,763 5.14% Direct dividend of 32.7p per share on 25 April 2008 to shareholders on the D H Davidson and family 14,577,539 4.86% Direct register at the close of business on 7 March 2008, making a total for the Legal & General Group Plc 12,544,056 4.18% Direct year of 51.2p per share 2006: 46.5p.
A dividend reinvestment plan, which Barclays PLC 11,919,582 3.97% Indirect enables shareholders to invest their dividends in ordinary shares, is available in respect of the final dividend and the final date for receipt of elections is Employee involvement 4 April 2008.
Further details are available from our Registrars, whose contact details can be found on page 96.
The importance of good relations and communications with employees is fundamental to the continued success of our business.
Each of the Going concern Groups 34 operating businesses maintains employee relations and consults employees as appropriate to its own particular needs.
Internal Group After making due enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at magazines are published twice a year and distributed to all employees to the time of approving the Financial Statements, that there is a reasonable ensure that they are kept well informed of the performance of the Group.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the The Company makes various benefit schemes available to employees, Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing including a Save AsYou Earn Scheme.
All permanent employees are the Financial Statements.
encouraged to participate, subject to having six months service at the date of invitation.
Persimmon Plc Directors Report 39 Equal opportunities Acquisition of own shares Equal opportunities for training, career development and promotion are At the Annual General Meeting held on 19 April 2007, shareholders available to all employees regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic granted the Company authority to purchase up to an aggregate of origin, religion, sex, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, age or 29,926,110 of its own shares.
During the year ended 31 December 2007 disability.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always the Company purchased 2,444,118 ordinary shares under this authority, fully considered with appropriate regard to the aptitude and abilities of the with a nominal value of 244,412 representing approximately 0.81% person concerned.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled every of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues, 25 February 2008, for a consideration including expenses of that appropriate training is arranged and or any reasonable adjustments are 22,308,471.
The shares were purchased as part of the share buyback made to their working environment.
programme initiated on 22 October 2007 and are all held in treasury.
The Directors implemented the share buyback programme because they Creditor payment policy considered the weakness in share prices of companies within the house building sector provided an attractive opportunity for the Company to The Group agrees payment with its trade creditors and other suppliers purchase its own shares.
At 31 December 2007, the Company had on an individual contract basis at the time the goods and services are authority to purchase a further 27,481,992 of its own shares.
This ordered rather than following a standard code.
The policy is to abide authority expires on 24 April 2008 and a resolution to renew the by the agreed terms once satisfied that the goods or services have been authority will be put to shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
provided in accordance with the contract terms and conditions.
The Companys average creditor payment period at 31 December 2007 Annual General Meeting was 51 days 2006: 50 days.
The Annual General Meeting will commence at 12 noon on Thursday Charitable and political donations 24 April 2008 at theVoltigeur Suite, York Racecourse, The Knavesmire, York.
The notice of the meeting and an explanation of the ordinary and The Group as a whole has made donations of 210,000 to charitable special business is given in the accompanying circular.
Further details of the Companys community involvement and charitable activities can be found in the Auditors Sustainability Report on our website at www.
No political donations were made during the year.
A resolution for the reappointment of the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions and Audit statement qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Report The Company has not issued any qualifying third party indemnity confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit provision or any qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision.
information as defined by section 234ZA 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Persimmon Plc Directors Report 40 Directors Report continued of which the member is the holder.
In the case of joint holders of a share Articles of Association the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, The following description summarises certain provisions of the current shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders Articles of Association of the Company last amended by special and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which resolution on 21 April 2005 the Articles and applicable English law the names of the holders appear in the Register of Members in respect of concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act the share.
This is a summary only and the Restrictions on voting relevant provisions of the Companies Acts and Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
No member whether in person or by proxy shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be entitled to vote or to exercise any other right of Share capital membership at any General Meeting in respect of any share held by the member unless all calls or other sums presently payable by the member in Structure respect of that share in the Company have been paid.
The Company has one class of share, being ordinary shares with a In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote until he has complied nominal value of 10p each.
At 25 February 2008 the issued share with a direction notice served on him after failure to provide information capital of the Company was 302,591,431 including shares held in concerning interest in those shares required by the Company under the Treasury ordinary shares with a nominal value of 30,259,143. relevant provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
Further details are provided in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
Deadlines for voting rights Rights attached to shares Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate Shares may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other rights, members by a corporate representative.
The deadline for delivering or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, return of capital, either written or electronic proxy forms is 48 hours before the time for voting or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by ordinary holding the meeting.
resolution determine or failing such determination as the Directors may decide, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and other Dividends and distributions shareholders rights.
The Company may by Ordinary Resolution declare dividends not Unissued shares are under the control of the Directors who may allot, exceeding the amount recommended by the Directors, subject to the grant options over, or otherwise dispose of them to such persons provisions of the Companies Acts.
The Directors may pay interim including the Directors themselves at such times and on such terms dividends and any fixed rate dividend whenever the financial position as the Directors may think proper, subject to the Articles, the Companies of the Company, in the opinion of the Directors, justifies its payment.
Acts and other shareholders rights.
All dividends and interest shall belong and be paid subject to any lien Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 23 and note 30 to of the Company to those members whose names shall be on the the Financial Statements.
The Trustee of the Persimmon Employee Benefit Register of Members at the record date fixed in accordance with the Trust may vote or abstain as it sees fit.
Articles notwithstanding any subsequent transfer or transmission of shares.
Votes of members Transfer of shares Every member present in person or being a corporation represented Any member may transfer their shares by transfer in writing in any usual by a duly authorised representative who is not otherwise a member or common form or in any other form acceptable to the Directors and under section 375 Companies Act 1985, shall subject to any provisions permitted by the Companies Acts and the UK Listing Authority.
contained in the Articles have one vote on a show of hands.
On a poll every member who is present by person or, being a corporation represented as aforesaid or by proxy shall have one vote for every share Persimmon Plc Directors Report 41 Appointment and replacement of Directors Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association Directors shall be no less than two and no more than fifteen in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in the Board of Directors.
A Director appointed by the Board of Directors accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of special holds office until the next following Annual General Meeting and is then resolution.
A resolution will be put to the Annual General Meeting to eligible for election by the members.
be held on 24 April 2008 to adopt new Articles.
Details of the specific changes being proposed are set out in full in the explanatory notes to the Each Director shall retire from office at the first Annual General Meeting separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
following his appointment and shall be eligible for reappointment: thereafter each Director shall retire from office and shall be eligible for Significant agreements reappointment at the Annual General Meeting held in the third year following his last reappointment.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before change of control of the Company:- the expiration of his term of office.
Under the 800m syndicated loan facility agreement dated The office of Director shall be vacated if a he resigns by notice in 24 November 2005, all amounts become due and payable under writing to the Company: b he offers in writing to resign and the the terms of the facility if any person or group of persons acting Directors resolve to accept such offer: c a bankruptcy order or an in concert gains control of the Company.
interim order is made against him or he makes any arrangement or composition with his creditors generally: d he is, or may be, suffering Under the private placement of senior loan notes detailed in note 19 to from mental disorder: e he is absent from meetings of the Directors the Financial Statements the Loan Notes, the holders of the Loan for six successive months without the permission of the Directors: Notes have an option upon being notified by the Company within f he becomes prohibited by law from acting as a Director: or g he is 5 business days of the change of control to require the Company to removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
prepay the Loan Notes held by each holder.
If the holders exercise this option, the amount of prepayment is the principal amount of the Loan Powers of the Directors Note together with interest accrued thereon to the date of the prepayment.
The date of prepayment must be within 65 days of the The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who change of control.
may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association and Articles, the Companies Acts and any Control has the same meaning as S416 Income and Corporation Taxes directions given by the Company in general meeting.
In particular the Act 1988 and acting in concert has the meaning given to it in the City Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
issue shares, appoint and remove Directors and recommend and declare Change of control is deemed to occur if at any time any person, or dividends.
group of persons acting in concert, acquires control of the Company.
By order of the Board Neil Francis Group Company Secretary 25 February 2008
