Persimmon Plc 36 Board of Directors From left: David Thompson, Mike Farley, John White, Mike Killoran, David Bryant, Neil Davidson, Hamish Leslie Melville and Nicholas Wrigley Richard Pennycook Non-Executive Director age 44 Richard Pennycook was appointed to the Board on 14 March 2008.
A chartered accountant and graduate of Bristol University, he has since 2005 been the Group Finance Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC.
Previous roles include Group Finance Director of RAC plc, Finance Director of J D Wetherspoon plc, CEO of Welcome Break Holdings PLC and NonExecutive Director of Richer Sounds plc.
Persimmon Plc Board of Directors 37 John White Hamish Leslie Melville Group Chairman age 56 Non-Executive Director age 63 John White was appointed Group Chairman in April 2006, previously having Hamish Leslie Melville is a Managing Director and Chairman of the European been Group Chief Executive for 13 years since 1993.
He has spent all his Investment Banking Committee of Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited.
working life in the housing industry.
After joining Persimmon in 1979 he Mr Leslie Melville was appointed to the Board in 1995.
He is Chairman of was responsible for establishing the Groups operations in the Midlands, Mithras Investment Trust and The J P Morgan Fleming Mercantile Investment following which he was appointed Regional Chairman for the South.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Mr White was appointed to the Board in 1986 and is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the Risk Committee.
David Thompson Senior Independent Director age 53 Mike Farley BSC HONS.
MCIOB David Thompson is Chairman of Marstons PLC.
He is also a director of Group Chief Executive age 54 Caledonia Investments Plc and The Tribal Group Plc.
Appointed to the Board Mike Farley was appointed Group Chief Executive in April 2006 following in August 1999, he is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit a very successful period as Chief Executive of the original South Division.
Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He joined Persimmon in 1983 and was appointed to the Board in 1989.
Mr Farley is a member of the Chartered Institute of Building and was Neil Davidson CBE responsible for establishing the Wessex operating business and for developing Non-Executive Director age 57 the business in the Midlands.
Mr Farley is a member of the Risk Committee.
Neil Davidson retired as Chief Executive of Arla Foods UK PLC in June 2005.
He is Chairman of the Nickerson Rothwell Group, Chairman of Leicestershire Mike Killoran BA HONS.
ACA County Cricket Club Limited and a director of Emerging Media.
He is Group Finance Director age 46 Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and a member of the Mike Killoran joined the Company in 1996 and was appointed to the Board Audit and Remuneration Committees.
A chartered accountant by profession, Mr Killoran worked in manufacturing, distribution and retail sectors before joining the Group.
Nicholas Wrigley He took over his present role in April 1999 and is a member of the Non-Executive Director age 52 Risk Committee.
Nicholas Wrigley was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006.
Mr Wrigley is Managing Director of Rothschild London and a member of its Global David Bryant Investment Banking Committee and Global Management Committee.
He has Group Development Director age 55 over 20 years mergers and acquisitions experience at Rothschild including David Bryant joined the Company in 1985 and was appointed to the Board three years in Australia.
Before joining Rothschild he qualified as an in 1991.
Appointed Group Development Director on 1 July 2005 he has accountant.
Mr Wrigley is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee responsibilities for a number of Group functions including Sales & Marketing, and a member of the Audit Committee.
Media and PR, Health & Safety and Procurement.
Mr Bryant is also Chairman of the Groups operating businesses in Anglia and Essex.
