Persimmon Plc 08 Business Review: Review of Strategy Our Strategy Our business is the construction and sale of new homes in the UK market, which includes land acquisition and development.
Our long term strategy is to continue to profitably grow our business.
We follow a strategy of reducing exposure to local market volatility by maintaining operations across geographically and economically diverse markets to enhance our growth potential.
Our growth strategy is a controlled process of managing our balance sheet while we grow both organically, through land acquisition and development in existing business units and markets, and through the acquisition of other house building companies where there is an opportunity to strengthen our presence in our existing markets.
We believe that our business requires in-depth knowledge of local markets in order to acquire land, to engage subcontractors, to plan sites in accordance with local demand, to anticipate customer tastes in specific Mike Farley, Group Chief Executive markets and to assess the regulatory environment.
Our divisional structure is designed to utilise our local market expertise.
We believe that the implementation Land of our strategy has placed us in an Our strategy is to maintain a landbank sufficient to ensure a continued supply of land with residential planning consent, our basic raw material.
excellent position to continue to grow We acquire land only after we have completed appropriate due diligence, our business and we have confidence including site investigations and evaluation of the planning status.
Although we purchase land primarily to support our house building in the future.
activities, we also trade land with other housebuilders, primarily to secure additional sales outlets.
We control a substantial amount of land, both owned and through option agreements, which we promote through the planning process.
Development Our management teams supervise and control the design, development and construction of our housing sites.
We are not dependent on any single supplier or subcontractor.
We have a number of fixed price contracts with subcontractors and material suppliers, which help limit the effect of commodity price increases.
We also attempt to maintain efficient operations by utilising standardised materials available from a variety of sources.
Our supply agreements also allow us to leverage our volume through quantity purchase discounts for a number of products.
Persimmon Plc Business Review 09 Sales We monitor our sales to ensure that the mix of our new homes is aligned to meet demand and to ensure that we are not over exposed in any one particular house type.
We build show houses and view homes to enable our customers to see the finished product and then closely match our build programmes with our customer orders.
We look after our customers and aim to ensure that they receive good service, both during and after the house buying process.
Risk Factors We plan to continually mitigate and minimise the risks inherent within the residential development process.
However there are many substantial risks outside of our control which could affect our business.
The principal risks are: National and regional economic conditions: the house building industry FaringtonVillas, Farington, Lancashire is sensitive to changes such as job growth, housing demand, interest rates and consumer confidence.
Any deterioration in economic conditions could decrease demand and pricing for new homes which could have Corporate Responsibility a material affect on our business, revenues or profits.
We understand the need to take into account our impact on the Competitive markets: we operate in a market with many other national, environment, our effect on the communities in which we build, regional and local housebuilders.
Increasing levels of competition could the morale and welfare of our employees and the satisfaction reduce the number of homes we build and affect revenues or profits.
Land supply: there is a shortage of supply of land with residential Our key responsibilities are to build sustainable homes, to operate planning consent and increasing competition may affect our ability efficiently and minimise our impact on the environment, to work with to acquire suitable land at reasonable prices.
local communities, to promote skills within our workforce, to provide a healthy and safe working environment and to care for our customers.
Regulatory compliance: our business is subject to extensive and complex Our strategy is to integrate these complex social and environmental issues laws and regulations principally relating to planning, the environment into our management processes in running our business.
Our obligations to comply with legislation can result in delays in land development and house building activity causing us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and construction.
Capital requirements: our ability to continue to grow our business depends upon our ability to access capital on favourable terms.
We could be adversely affected by a change in our credit rating or a disruption in the capital markets.
Persimmon Plc 10 Length Keepers Field, Kings Hill, Kent Persimmon Plc 11 Persimmons divisional management structure ensures the Group benefits Breadth from national coverage.
Lund Farm Collins, Cumbria Persimmon Plc Business Review 12 Business Review: 2007 Performance Review The market has varied considerably this year.
At the beginning of the year This has been another year of significant we saw good reservation levels on our sites across the country.
The rate of progress for the Persimmon Group.
sales began to reduce following a number of interest rate rises in the first half.
We then experienced the normal slower summer trading conditions.
Despite difficult market conditions we During September, due to the well publicised credit crunch, we saw a have increased our pre-tax profit, loss in purchaser confidence and also experienced a change in the credit criteria set by the mortgage lenders.
These two factors led to higher than improved our operating margins to 21.7% normal cancellation rates and a lower forward order book for 2008, post goodwill and have been successful although in line with the rest of the industry.
in gaining planning consent on over Set against this background, the business achieved good results for the second half of the year completing 7,903 homes with overall 8,000 plots from our strategic landbank.
profitability in the second half increasing.
This was despite a reduction in the number of homes completed when compared to the first half completions of 8,002.
Throughout the year we have seen underlying price growth of 3% for our private sale housing.
However, an increase in the proportion of the lower cost partnership homes, and a reduction in the number of Charles Church homes, has resulted in the small increase of 1% in our average selling price to 189,558 2006: 188,129.
We remained focused on the completion of competitively priced family homes in all sectors of the market and we continue to have limited exposure to high rise apartment schemes with only 2.5% of our completions in 2007 from this type of development.
The Government has set out a number of initiatives and targets for the industry, and the Callcutt Review has outlined a number of strategies to increase production levels.
Persimmon will work with the Government and other stakeholders to help meet these ambitious targets.
In order to achieve these targets the industry requires improvements to the current planning environment together with a stable economic environment.
Divisional Structure The three Divisions have performed well this year and we have ensured that our brands Persimmon, Charles Church and Westbury Partnerships have been fully integrated into each Division.
Each individual Division has carried out a review in their businesses to establish a range of house types that retain the local character for their areas of operation, thus gaining enhanced efficiencies for procurement, professional fees and cost reduction.
Persimmon Plc Business Review 13 Central Division The Division has seen an overall increase of 4% to its average selling price of 178,278 from 5,656 homes.
In the North West, although the general market has been competitive, underlying average selling prices rose 5%.
The overall North West average price of 183,013 has been assisted by an increased level of completions at our high value apartment scheme at Leftbank in Manchester.
As part of our review of operations we have merged two offices in the North West to reduce overheads in this area.
In the Birmingham region prices have been more muted, however we achieved volume growth of 3% mainly due to the provision of more affordable homes.
We have recently commenced selling on our large Ironstone development at Lawley, Telford with English Partnerships.
This scheme for 1,100 homes will sustain our business in this area for anumberofyears.
TheVistas, Wychwood Park, Cheshire South Division The South Division has increased completions by 3% to 3,905 and our new SevernValley business delivered over 150 completions in its first six North Division months of operation.
Our two large strategic sites in Ashford, Kent for This Division has completed 3,765 2006: 4,069 homes, a slight 1,020 homes and our scheme of 325 homes in Gillingham are now under reduction on last year.
This was mainly due to theYorkshire region construction and we have taken our first completions this year.
These sites experiencing delays due to planning and more challenging trading will provide growth for both our Persimmon and Charles Church conditions.
However, this was offset by a strong financial performance businesses in this area.
in the North East and Scottish regions.
In our Wales business, one of the Groups largest operations, we completed Price growth in Scotland was 4% due to strong purchaser demand and 940 homes.
We have been particularly successful in taking a high level of the availability of traditional family accommodation.
Our new Charles completions at our brownfield mixed use regeneration scheme at Swansea Church business in Scotland has been well received and we are gaining Point.
We were very pleased that David Bullock our site manager at recognition in this market for our premium product.
Wyncliffe Gardens, Cardiff was national runner up in the NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
In the North East the market continues to be challenging.
However, with our average selling price only increasing by 3% to 166,954 during the Charles Church year our homes remain very affordable in this region.
Our decision to reposition the Charles Church brand into the mid range Due to the challenging market conditions and planning restrictions in market has shown positive results.
We have seen good demand for this theYorkshire region we have merged ourYorkshire and EastYorkshire premium product and with an average selling price of 257,009 we have operating businesses which will give further operational efficiencies in seen underlying price growth of 2% throughout the UK.
We retain three Persimmon operating businesses in theYorkshire region which will ensure that our coverage of this important market is It is clear that the market for property values in excess of 300,000 is still comprehensive and provides a stronger platform for future growth.
Although volumes this year have reduced by 11% to 2,579 2006: 2,898, this is set against the previous years growth of 125% and therefore we believe that in the long term the Charles Church brand will continue to grow on a national basis.
Persimmon Plc 14 Invest Cherque Farm, Lee on Solent Persimmon Plc 15 Planning and delivering the right type of houses today remains important, Deliver but Persimmons strategic landbank is a priority for the future.
Persimmon Plc Business Review 16 Business Review: 2007 Performance Review continued We have received positive recognition not only from our purchasers but also from a number of external bodies, including the Welsh Civic Society who gave us an award for best local design for our traditional housing scheme at Maenol Glasfryn, Llanelli.
We were also awarded the best marina development for our scheme at Marinus, Cowes, Isle of Wight, by the Mail on Sunday.
These awards demonstrate the diversity of excellent homes produced by the Charles Church teams.
Westbury Partnerships Westbury Partnerships continue to grow and this business has expanded by 50% in its second full year of operation.
The combination of the use of our Space4 product with the standard core range of Housing Corporation approved house types has delivered good efficiencies for this business.
In return housing associations have received high quality, energy efficient and sustainable homes.
The team is developing a partnership with a number of housing associations and this will deliver Strategic land at Plymstock Quarry, Plymouth further opportunities in the future.
The number of affordable homes built within the Persimmon Group We remain focused on bringing forward our strategic land and in 2007 has also continued to grow and this year we completed 1,962 2006: we have obtained planning permission and acquired 8,181 plots 2006: 1,402 partnership homes, an increase of 40%.
These numbers will rise 2,927 plots, a substantial increase on the previous year.
We have seen as we bring forward more of our large strategic sites.
We have completed significant success in the Central Division with consent on schemes in the first homes to receive Direct Grant funding from the Housing Peterborough 350 plots and in Bridgnorth 317 plots.
In the South Corporation and we have been invited to submit a further bid for the Division where land is more difficult to acquire we have enjoyed success period 2008-2011. in Bridgend, Wales 580 plots and at Liskeard 465 plots.
Charles Church has also brought forward some smaller schemes in Tunbridge Wells and Space4 Burgess Hill totalling 140 plots.
This year we have seen a substantial increase in volumes manufactured The ability to acquire over 50% of our replacement plots from our at our Space4 factory to 2,629 units 2006: 1,475.
The technical changes strategic landbank means we can acquire land selectively in the open we have made have simplified the onsite procedures, thereby reducing our market given current market conditions.
We continue to focus on the build times onsite to the benefit of both Westbury Partnerships and our delivery of 30,000 plots over a three year period from our strategic operating businesses using this system.
The Space4 system is well set to landbank and this will help support our operating margins in the meet the Governments targets regarding the building of sustainable homes long term.
and we are looking to further develop Space4 to meet the new zero carbon home challenge for 2016.
Corporate Responsibility Landbank The concept of sustainability is becoming an increasingly important part of our business and we take proper account of all the complex social and In this challenging market we have remained cautious regarding land environmental issues in our core operations.
We continually seek to acquisition and we have seen a slight reduction in the landbank that is improve the sustainability and energy efficiency of the houses we build, owned and under control to 78,863 plots 2006: 80,085 plots.
This and where practical incorporate modern methods of construction and however represents 4.9 years land supply at our current level of output.
During 2007 we increased the number of properties which Within our total landbank only 1,700 plots or c. 2% are for inner-city we built to EcoHomes standards to 1,539 units, representing just under high rise apartments maintaining our strategy of developing traditional 10% of our homes sold.
Persimmon Plc Business Review 17 We continue to monitor the amount of waste generated from each new We currently have forward sales with a total value of 1.05bn.
home that we build as one measure of our operating efficiency.
During We plan to open a further 140 new outlets in the first six months of this 2007 our total house building waste was similar to the previous year, but year and the number of our overall sales outlets at the start of 2008 was we increased the amount of waste we recycled to 68% 2006: 66%.
The introduction of new Construction Design and Management The market remains competitive but with our new outlets and committed Regulations 2007 resulted in a 61% increase in the number of training management team we expect sales to continue to grow through the first days we provided to our construction staff.
In conjunction with this half of this year.
additional training, the Reportable Injuries Disease and Dangerous Occurrences per thousand employees in our workforce notified to the Summary Health and Safety Executive reduced to 12.2 2006: 12.9.
Having made This has been another successful year for the Persimmon Group in significant progress over recent years we are again resetting all our challenging market conditions.
The business has delivered another record operating businesses performance targets for health and safety to further set of profits and we have improved our operating margins.
improve our performance in this vital area of our business.
We have continued a concerted effort on reducing our cost base.
We We continue to invest heavily in training our staff to improve both continue to work with our suppliers and sub-contractors to exercise good the quality of our homes and our customer service.
We have systems cost control and some of the initiatives we have introduced in 2007 will which allow us to monitor how well we are performing, enabling us to bring benefits to the business in 2008.
Our new SevernValley business has identify particular trends and issues upon which we can focus our efforts.
made a good start in the second half of 2007.
However, the closure of Our internal Customer Care Questionnaire again recorded that 86% of three other offices at this time will help retain our overall operational our customers would recommend Persimmon or Charles Church to a efficiency.
This demonstrates the flexibility we retain in managing our friend.
In the NHBC Pride in the Job Awards we achieved 2 Regional business as planning and market conditions change.
We have also Award winners, 12 Seal of Excellence and 40 Quality Award winners concentrated on improving our cash flow, culminating in year end gearing for the Group, our highest number of Awards to date.
of 31% while maintaining a strong landbank and a solid balance sheet.
Current Trading Outlook I take this opportunity to thank our staff for their skill, hard work and effort and for their dedication to our business.
With our experienced We have experienced a slower start to trading in the early part of this management team we are well positioned to meet the challenges of the year.
Although the number of visitors to our developments has increased housing market in 2008. since the start of the year, they currently remain 13% lower when compared to a strong prior year comparative.
We have seen cancellation rates return to more normal levels at c. 20%, compared to rates of over Mike Farley Group Chief Executive 30% at the time of the autumn credit crunch.
Although visitor levels are 25 February 2008 lower the quality of the visitors is good, but in this cautious environment they are taking longer to reserve.
Prices remain firm for both the new and second hand market.
We are continuing to be selective in our use of incentives, with our Part Exchange scheme and mortgage assistance proving particularly popular.
We have seen the mortgage lenders tighten their lending criteria and this has, and will, undoubtedly affect prospective purchasers who have a poorer credit history.
However, we have good relationships with the major lenders and we are not currently experiencing problems with purchasers obtaining mortgages now that the new lending criteria are clearly understood.
Persimmon Plc 18 Apprentice Persimmon Plc 19 Persimmons pride in the quality of its homes can only be achieved through Expert a continuous investment programme to develop its people.
