22 23 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Operating review Key performance indicators Revenue EBITDA Net profit Measures the level of operating activity and growth of the business EBITDA means earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and Provides a measure of the net profitability of the business, that is, profits impairment and provides a measure of the operating profitability of the business available for distribution before taking into account minority interests To help the group assess its performance, the Board and executive management set annual KPI targets and monitor US$ millions US$ millions US$ millions and assess performance against these benchmarks on 1 2007 2,440 2007 301.3 2007 188.7 a monthly basis throughout the year.
Throughout this 2006 1,864 2006 198.3 2006 120.3 Operating and Financial Review, performance is assessed 2005 1,485 2005 115.6 2005 75.4 with reference to these KPIs, the annual measures of which are presented opposite.
Revenue for the year as reported in the consolidated income statement.
EBITDA is calculated as profit before tax and net finance income as per the profit for the year as reported in the consolidated income statement.
consolidated income statement adjusted to add back charges for depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges as per note 3 to the financial statements.
Return on capital employed ROCE Earnings per share diluted EPS Cash generated from operations and cash conversion ROCE is a measure of the efficiency with which the group is generating EPS provides a measure of net profitability of the group taking into account changes These KPIs measure both the absolute amount of cash generated from operations operating profits from its capital in the capital structure, for example, the issuance of additional share capital and the conversion of EBITDA to cash % Cents per share US$ millions 2007 47.3 2007 54.14 2007 370.8 2006 45.7 2006 34.87 2006 328.6 2005 32.5 2005 22.41 2005 133.0 ROCE is calculated as EBITA earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and As reported in the consolidated income statement and calculated in accordance % impairment charges calculated as EBITDA less depreciation per note 3 to the with note 7 to the financial statements.
2007 123.1 financial statements divided by average capital employed being total equity 2006 165.7 and non-current liabilities per the consolidated balance sheet.
2005 115.1 Cash generated from operations is as per the consolidated cash ow statement: cash conversion is cash from operations divided by EBITDA.
Lost time injury and recordable injury frequency rates Backlog Employee numbers Provides a measure of the safety performance of the group, including The group uses this KPI as a measure of the visibility of future earnings Provides an indication of the groups service capacity subcontractors and partners Lost time injury rates per 200,000 man hours US$ millions Number of employees approximately 2007 0.07 2007 4,441 2007 9,600 2006 0.06 2006 4,173 2006 7,800 2005 0.07 2005 3,244 2005 7,200 Backlog consists of the estimated revenue attributable to the uncompleted portion For the purposes of the Annual Report, employee numbers include agency and Recordable injury rates per 200,000 man hours of lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction contracts and variation contract staff but exclude employees of joint ventures.
2007 0.35 orders plus, with regard to engineering services and facilities management contracts, 2006 0.41 the estimated revenue attributable to the lesser of the remaining term of the contract 2005 0.55 and, in the case of life-of-eld facilities management contracts, five years: backlog is not an audited measure: other companies in the oil & gas industry may calculate Lost time injury LTI and recordable injury RI frequency rates are measured on the this measure differently.
basis of reported LTI and RI statistics for all Petrofac companies, subcontractors and partners expressed as a frequency rate per 200,000 man hours.
1 With the exception of the groups return on capital employed which is reported on a six monthly basis.
24 25 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Operating review Financial and liquidity risk: Health, safety and environmental performance Key risks and uncertainties Cost inflation Petrofacs strong culture of health and safety and environmental The majority of the costs of the Operations Services division and a HSE awareness is a key part of its operational and business There are a number of risks and uncertainties which may have minority, but growing proportion, of the Engineering & Construction activities and is vital to the groups system of business management an impact on the accuracy of forward looking statements, the divisions costs are reimbursed by clients, either on an actual cost and integral to delivery of quality and business excellence.
As the financial performance of the group and its share price.
These are basis or through a periodically revised schedule of rates.
The groups group enters new geographical markets, particularly with new explained below, along with the approach to managing the risk largest exposure to cost inflation is in its provision of lump-sum customers and partners, and assumes responsibility for new or uncertainty.
As noted in the Corporate Governance Report on Engineering & Construction services.
These exposures are managed infrastructure, it is imperative that its focus on HSE is maintained.
page 55, the group has initiated a review of the way it identifies, before and after bid submission as follows: The groups financial exposure to a significant HSE incident is evaluates and manages risk following the appointment of the generally mitigated through its commercial arrangements and Head of Enterprise Risk Management during the year.
As a result, Conditional on the award of a major contract, the group will insurance programme, though an incident may have a financial some of the key risks and uncertainties presented in the 2006 typically negotiate agreements to procure equipment and or impact on the groups KPI income.
The group still remains exposed Annual Report have been reclassified and or revised.
arrangements with key subcontractors, on back-to-back terms to the reputational risk of such an incident.
The incident on the where possible Thistle Alpha platform in the North Sea in late November 2007 The list below does not purport to be exhaustive.
There may be Expectations of wage inflation are factored into project costings for highlights the media attention that such incidents may generate.
other risks and uncertainties, not presently known to the group or bid submissions and budgets Details of this incident and the groups health, safety and that the group currently deems to be immaterial, that could affect The group maintains contingencies to cover unforeseen cost increases environmental performance during 2007 are reviewed in the the performance of the business.
The capital expenditure associated with Energy Developments Level of demand for the groups services projects is managed in a similar manner to Engineering & Business continuity The demand for the groups services is linked to the level of Construction lump-sum projects.
The group is potentially exposed to, inter alia, natural hazards, acts expenditure by the oil & gas industry, which is not easy to predict: of terrorism, war and civil unrest that could impact its infrastructure, however, as noted in the Operating Environment section see Exchange rates either through the unavailability of physical assets or access to page 25, the group expects the demand for its services to remain While the group operates in a number of diverse geographical systems and procedures.
The group mitigates this risk through its strong for the long-term.
locations, the majority of the groups revenues are denominated in business continuity plan, which seeks to minimise disruption from US dollars or currencies pegged to the US dollar.
In contracts priced any such threat, in part through the availability of alternative facilities.
Availability of executive or project staff in US dollars or currencies pegged to the US dollar where the group The availability of skilled personnel remains one of the most is procuring equipment or incurring costs in other currencies, these significant challenges facing the oil & gas industry.
The group exposures are actively managed at a project level using forward Operating environment remains confident that its efforts to promote and reward on merit, currency contracts.
The bulk of the Operations Services divisions growing employee share ownership, management and technician revenues and costs are denominated in Sterling, however, as a Demand for the groups services remained strong during 2007 training programmes and recruitment strategies, access to policy, the group does not hedge the Sterling profits generated by and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future.
these activities as they are partially matched by Sterling group international labour markets, in particular the Middle East, Indian 1 overhead costs.
While the group reports its results in US dollars, its Subcontinent and Asia, involvement in world-class projects Given current estimates of worldwide reservoir depletion rates, share price is quoted in Sterling.
The share price may therefore be and exciting prospects for continued growth will enable the significant investment in production capacity is required to maintain impacted by fluctuations in the US dollar Sterling exchange rate.
group to attract and retain the necessary skilled personnel.
existing levels of oil & gas production.
As new discoveries tend to be Senior management review succession plans on a periodic basis.
smaller in size than many depleting mature fields, the level of capital Oil price See the key performance indicators on page 23 for details of the expenditure per barrel of production is expected to increase.
While the long-term trend in the price of oil & gas may have an groups employee numbers.
impact on the level of new investment in the industry the service In addition to replacing existing capacity, substantial levels of divisions Engineering & Construction and Operations Services Financial performance of contracts investment will be required to build new production capacity to meet should not be significantly impacted by short to medium-term The groups financial performance could be materially affected the growing level of demand.
Global demand for energy, driven in part 2 fluctuations in the price of oil & gas see Operating Environment on by the performance of a relatively small number of large contracts, by the expected growth in the economies of China and India, 3 page 25.
The financial performance of the Energy Developments particularly those which are lump-sum.
The group has a strong is expected to increase by over 55% over the period 2005-2030.
4 division is more heavily leveraged to the price of oil & gas through its track-record of successful project execution which reflects its A significant proportion of the increase in energy demand is expected co-investment in upstream oil & gas assets.
Where commodity price rigorous approach to risk identification and mitigation, from tender to be met by increased oil & gas production.
risk exists, for example, on the Cendor project see page 30 where through to project completion.
Additionally, the group does not the division benefits from approximately 30% of the upside of the oil recognise profits in the early stages of lump-sum contracts and The International Energy Agency has estimated that US$9.6 trillion price above an agreed base price, the division will look to hedge an maintains contingencies to cover unforeseen cost increases.
An of investment in oil & gas production capacity, principally upstream appropriate proportion of the exposure on a project-by-project basis.
internal control framework exists to ensure the quality, schedule and investment, is required from 2006 to 2030 to replace existing budget of projects is regularly reviewed.
The progress made on key production capacity and build new production capacity equivalent Other financial risks associated with or managed through the use of projects is formally reported to the Board and senior management to US$384 billion per annum.
financial instruments, such as interest rate, credit and liquidity risk, on a regular basis.
are disclosed in note 31 to the financial statements.
The group has positioned itself to focus on key regions where Change of political, social or economic factors in key regions long-term multi-billion dollar multi-phase developments are Petrofac and its predecessor companies have over 25 years expected.
The anticipated levels of capital investment and experience of working in international markets.
A detailed risk review associated operating expenditures should ensure that demand for process is undertaken when assessing whether the group should the groups services remains strong.
With access to skilled people enter into a new contract or country, which is designed to ensure being the key constraint on growth for the engineering services that key risks are identified and monitored and appropriate mitigating sector, the pricing environment should remain favourable for the actions taken.
The diversity of the groups geographical footprint foreseeable future.
should provide some mitigation against country-specific risks, such as a change in taxation regime.
Photographs above from top to bottom a Marine Training Centre, Aberdeen, Scotland b Crew change, UK North Sea 1 4.5% according to Cambridge Energy Research Associates Boston, though industry estimates vary considerably.
2 China and India account for 45% of oil demand growth from 2006-2030, World Energy Outlook 2007, International Energy Agency.
3 World Energy Outlook 2007, International Energy Agency.
4 51% based on the International Energy Agencys reference case, World Energy Outlook 2007.
26 27 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Operating review Middle East and North Africa Karachaganak Phase III FEED, Kazakhstan Review of operations Engineering & Construction revenue The award of the Salam and Hasdrubal gas plant contracts in late In June 2007, the division secured an award from Karachaganak 2006 signified an increase in focus on the North Africa market for the US$ millions Petroleum Operating BV KPO for a FEED study for Phase III of the EPC business.
This trend has continued into 2007 with the award of development of the Karachaganak Processing Complex.
The Phase 2007 1,414.9 the In Salah gas compression project in Algeria in late 2007 see III FEED, which is scheduled for completion in the second half of 2006 1,081.3 page 27.
Over 60% of the divisions revenue in 2007 was generated 2008, is being executed on a reimbursable basis involving more than 2005 858.2 from lump-sum EPC contracts in the Middle East and North Africa.
450 personnel and represents the divisions largest FEED study to Key developments during the year were: Engineering & Construction date.
The development will have a gas processing capacity of Engineering & Construction net profit margin The Engineering & Construction division continued to make First gas was achieved on the Kauther gas plant in Oman in 4 billion cubic feet per day.
The division is working alongside KPO, good progress during the year in its key regions of the Middle November, two months ahead of expectation: the plant is currently its partners and with NIPI Caspian Engineering and Research CER.
% East and Africa and the Commonwealth of Independent States undergoing commissioning ahead of initial operation by the The division and CER will use a jointly developed capability to 2007 9.7 with its engineering, procurement and construction EPC, Operations Services division increase long-term Kazakh development and Kazakh content.
2006 8.8 conceptual design, FEED, and consultancy services.
Substantial progress was made on the Harweel cluster 2005 6.4 development project for Petroleum Development Oman PDO, the Kashagan third oil train, Kazakhstan In late 2007, following on from the initial engineering and divisions largest project to date: the scope of the project has Engineering & Construction backlog procurement and construction management contracts for the continued to grow, with variation orders received to address agreed Kashagan onshore facilities, the division secured a US$185 million changes to the technical specifications US$ millions lump-sum project for the engineering and procurement of a new In Egypt and Tunisia, the contracts awarded in late 2006 are 2007 2,540 Tranche 3 oil treatment plant.
progressing well with significant progress on engineering and 2006 2,228 procurement activities and early construction activities underway 2005 2,121 In Salah gas development, Algeria at the Salam and Hasdrubal gas plants In December 2007, the division announced the award of a US$600 The facilities upgrade project for Kuwait Oil Company KOC is million lump-sum EPC contract with In Salah Gas, an association progressing well with completion expected around the middle of 2008 between Sonatrach, BP and StatoilHydro.
The project includes the design and installation of additional field compression facilities at Commonwealth of Independent States three of the northern fields of REG, TEG and Krechba, in order to The division continues to be heavily involved in the Kashagan and maintain plateau production rates of 9 billion cubic metres per year Karachaganak programmes, two of Kazakhstans three multi-billion beyond 2009. dollar multi-phase developments.
Developments during the year included: Results As noted on page 27, the division was successful in securing High levels of activity on the divisions lump-sum EPC contracts, further work on the Kashagan project during the year with the particularly in the second half of the year, and strong growth in the award of an engineering and procurement contract for the third divisions reimbursable engineering business led to an increase in oil processing train revenues of 30.9% to US$1,414.9 million 2006: US$1,081.3 million.
On the Karachaganak development, the division made good Net margin increased from 8.8% in 2006 to 9.7% in 2007 due to the progress on the engineering, procurement and construction divisions continued strength in execution performance.
Revenue management EPCM services for the fourth train awarded in growth and continued net margin improvement resulted in a net January 2007 and has delivered much of the scope for the profit of US$137.1 million, an increase of 43.7% from the prior year Phase III development FEED study awarded in June 2007 2006: US$95.4 million.
The key contributors to revenue in the lumpsee page 27 sum EPC business were the Harweel project in Oman, the facilities In Russia, with the proposed change in ownership of TNK-BPs upgrade project in Kuwait, the Karachaganak fourth train part lumpinterests in the Kovykta projects through RUSIA Petroleum and sum, part reimbursable and the Salam and Hasdrubal gas plant the East Siberian Gas Company, the division has commenced projects that were awarded in late 2006.
The strong growth in the demobilisation from these projects and has redeployed personnel divisions reimbursable business was principally due to the award of within the group where appropriate: the Russian market remains an 1 the Karachaganak Phase III FEED study and the divisions 50% opportunity for the medium to long-term The division was successful in securing a FEED study for the share of the Brownfield engineering business, which continued to Kharyaga development in late 2007 which maintains its presence grow in its core market of the UKCS and also achieved strong in the Russian market international growth.
The principal divisional profit drivers were the projects referred to above, and additionally, the Kashagan contracts.
A number of significant EPC and consultancy and engineering services contracts were secured during 2007 and in early 2008: The Engineering & Construction division increased its number of employees from approximately 2,700 at 31 December 2006 to Karachaganak fourth stabilisation and sweetening approximately 3,800 at 31 December 2007, with strong growth in the train, Kazakhstan Woking and Sharjah offices and from the new Chennai office, which In January 2007, the division was awarded contracts for the opened in April 2007. engineering, procurement, construction management and commissioning support for the Karachaganak fourth stabilisation and The divisions backlog increased to US$2.5 billion at 31 December sweetening train.
The contract, scheduled for completion in mid 2009, 2007 31 December 2006: US$2.2 billion principally due to the In will be executed on a part lump-sum and part reimbursable basis.
Salah gas compression project award, the Kashagan third oil train award and scope increases for other existing contracts.
El Gassi field, Algeria In February 2007, the division was awarded a contract by SonaHess, a joint venture of Sonatrach and Hess, to engineer, procure and manage the construction and commissioning of new facilities on an existing production site at the El Gassi field in Algeria.
Photograph above a Hasdrubal gas plant, Tunisia Photographs above from top to bottom a Harweel enhanced oil recovery plant, Oman b Facilities upgrade project, Kuwait 1 1 R Re ev five en nu ue es a s an nd p d pr ro ofi fit ts o s of t f th he B e Br ro ow wn nfi fie elld e d en ng giin ne ee er riin ng b g bu us siin ne es ss a s ar re s e sp plliit e t eq qu ua alllly y c Operations at Salam gas plant, Egypt b be et tw we ee en t n th he E e En ng giin ne ee er riin ng & C g & Co on ns st tr ru uc ct tiio on a n an nd O d Op pe er ra at tiio on ns S s Se er rv viic ce es d s diiv viis siio on ns s.. 28 29 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Operating review Facilities Management delivered good operational performance Results Review of operations Operations Services revenue across its portfolio of UKCS and international contracts, however, Revenue for the Operations Services division increased by 24.9% to continued following a six month period of transition, the highlight of the year US$ millions US$911.0 million 2006: US$729.2 million.
Revenue excluding pass- 1 was assumption of full turnkey responsibility for the operation of through revenue increased by 34.8% reflecting the commencement 2007 911.0 Dubai Petroleums offshore oil & gas facilities in April 2007.
The new of the Dubai Petroleum contract, the acquisition of SPD, new 2006 729.2 contract is the divisions largest international contract to date and is business in Petrofac Training and Brownfield engineering, particularly 2005 605.3 proceeding positively and in line with expectations.
The financial in international markets, and a strong Sterling to US dollar exchange 2 returns on the Dubai Petroleum contract and the majority of Facilities Operations Services rate.
Net profit increased by 59.7% to US$28.9 million 2006: Operations Services net profit margin excluding Managements operations management contracts are linked to The Operations Services division achieved strong growth in US$18.1 million, representing a net margin on revenue excluding pass-through revenue operational performance through KPI mechanisms.
2007, due principally to the commencement of the facilities and pass-through revenue of 4.2% 2006: 3.6%.
The underlying net % well operations management contract with Dubai Petroleum, margin, adjusted to eliminate amortisation and finance costs relating In January 2007, the division acquired a majority interest in SPD, international growth in the Training and Brownfield engineering to acquisition intangibles and deferred consideration, increased to 2007 4.2 a specialist provider of well operations services, in particular well businesses and the acquisition of SPD.
4.7% 2006: 3.6% due principally to the contribution from the Dubai 2006 3.6 project management, well engineering optimisation, well engineering Petroleum contract and the acquisition of SPD.
SPDs core operations are in Africa and Europe and for national and international oil companies Operations Services employee numbers grew from approximately Operations Services backlog in the Middle East, including the provision of services for the Dubai 4,900 at 31 December 2006 to over 5,500 at 31 December 2007, Petroleum contract.
due principally to the commencement of the Dubai Petroleum US$ millions contract, where approximately 600 staff were recruited from the 2007 1,901 The Brownfield engineering and Training businesses have continued previous operator.
2006 1,945 to grow in their core market of the UKCS, where the market remains 2005 1,123 buoyant, but the strongest growth has been generated in The divisions backlog was US$1.9 billion at 31 December 2007 international markets, often in relation to existing projects and or 2006: US$1.9 billion.
with existing customers of other parts of the group.
Both Brownfield engineering and Training have been successful in delivering services to Dubai Petroleum following the commencement of the facilities management contract.
Furthermore, in early 2008, the group announced that Petrofac Training and Dubai Petroleum are to make a joint investment in the Dubai Petroleum Training Centre.
The centre will provide a wide range of safety training to the energy and construction industries, with technical courses planned for the future.
The centre is currently expected to open later in 2008.
In addition to the development of the training centre, Petrofac Training will provide Dubai Petroleum with a managed training solution for its staff and contractors.
Photograph above a The Kittiwake Platform, UK North Sea 1 Pass-through revenue refers to the revenue recognised from low or zero-margin third-party procurement services provided to customers.
2 The majority of the Operations Services divisions revenues are denominated in Photographs above from top to bottom Sterling.
The average US dollar to Sterling exchange rate for 2007 was 2.01 a Staff in Aberdeen, Scotland compared to 1.85 in 2006.
Eight percentage points of the growth in revenue, b Operations at the KOC upgrade project, Kuwait excluding pass-through revenue, in Operations Services is attributable to the c Delegates prepare for survival training, Aberdeen, Scotland movement in the US dollar to Sterling exchange rate.
