14 15 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report Interview with the and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Group Chief Executive The year has seen significant activity on the development Petrofacs Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari discusses of your investment projects, whats next for Energy some of the highlights of 2007 and the Companys plans for Interview with the Developments?
In 2007, Energy Developments made significant progress with both Group Chief the Chergui project in Tunisia, and the Don Area development in the The last year has been very successful, what has been UK North Sea.
We are now pursuing upstream opportunities with behind this success?
Executive partners in the Middle East area and we hope to secure at least one Petrofacs success can be attributed to one factor: our people.
We are also looking at other opportunities in We are a people business and can only succeed through the skills the UK, which leverage our development and operational skills.
and commitment of the professionals who help ensure that we deliver the highest standards to our customers.
I am very pleased Where and how do you expect Petrofac to grow over the with the execution weve seen in all three divisions.
another excellent year with good levels of customer satisfaction and We will continue to focus on the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific correspondingly strong demand for our services.
and will work hard to establish a deeper presence in those areas.
We are actively pursuing bids in Saudi Arabia and in Africa, where Our values are absolutely central to the way our people operate and we are looking at opportunities in Libya, Algeria and Tunisia.
Growth interact with colleagues, customers and other stakeholders.
Our key challenge is to maintain our values as we grow.
So we are working from the UK continues to be strong and the Operations Services hard on how we attract, retain and nurture talent and there are many division, and our training business in particular, is seeking to build a development programmes in place across our business that build on worldwide capability which encompasses all of our geographic focus our competency frameworks to ensure that we have the right people areas and includes the Gulf of Mexico.
with the right skills in Petrofac.
Examples include our extensive graduate recruitment and development programmes that operate Have you seen any significant change or developing trends across the group, and in Operations Services we have a programme in the oil & gas market over the last year?
called Petrofac Academy, which trains management in various 2007 was characterised by three key trends.
We saw the technical operational standards and key behaviours.
continuation of the long-term trend for the industry to commit more capital to maintaining existing production volumes while also Effective communication is also critical to our ongoing development.
The oil industry has under-estimated the We are implementing many new channels of communication for all robustness and growth of markets such as India and China, and the stakeholders, but placing particular emphasis on how we improve result has been an increase in the price of oil.
internal communication with our staff.
The second important trend was the increased focus by the industry How does the bidding pipeline for Engineering & Construction on asset integrity and process safety, particularly after the Texas City projects look for 2008 and beyond?
refinery incident and the lessons that our industry learned from it.
I would say that the pipeline for 2008 is, if anything, even healthier than in previous years.
We have a number of significant opportunities Finally, there has been a shift in the dynamics of the relationships to look forward to in our traditional areas of operation: the Middle East, between national oil companies and governments and the Africa and Asia Pacific.
There has been a movement towards nationalising resources in Latin America, for example and in The Dubai Petroleum contract has clearly made an important re-negotiating terms more in favour of host governments such as in contribution to the Operations Services division in 2007.
There have also been examples of increased willingness How has the contract performed so far?
from some of the national oil companies to pursue opportunities in We took over the management of Dubais offshore oil & gas facilities direct competition with international oil companies.
on 2 April 2007, following a nine-month transition period.
Our primary goal was to ensure that we continued to run a safe operation with no unforeseen events, and to manage the transition effectively.
We succeeded on both counts.
Now we are focused on how we can effect change and deliver improvements in operational performance at the end of the day that is what our customers expect.
16 17 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report Interview with the and accounts 2007 and accounts 2007 Group Chief Executive Employee numbers grew from around 7,800 to 9,600 at the How is the contracting environment changing in response to Interview with the end of 2007.
Given the industrys concerns over a lack of increased cost pressures and how will this impact Petrofac?
Group Chief skilled resources, how have you managed to achieve this?
We have seen cost pressures across the industry, both for underlying Can this growth be maintained?
commodities and in terms of wage inflation.
At Petrofac, we are Executive We are a very international and multicultural business, and we managed always cost-conscious and our people have done an excellent job continued to grow numbers all over the world for example in the UK and the in managing cost escalation by hedging purchases of materials and Middle East as well as in our Indian operations.
Even though the being proactive in anticipating wage inflation.
Engineering & Construction division saw a significant expansion in relative terms, from 2,700 to 3,800, this ability to access resources worldwide How do you think your strategy will develop over the short Our strategy is to remain committed means we are not reliant on one or two particular labour markets.
to our core competencies, which have Our strategy is to remain committed to our core competencies, Our focus on graduate recruitment, in-house training and staff which have driven our growth and success in the past, while driven our growth and success in the development combine to help us build the skills bases we need to expanding the breadth and depth of our service.
past, while expanding the breadth and move ahead with confidence.
Hiring from within other industries with similar skill sets to our offshore oil & gas business has also been a For example, we are addressing one or two areas where we do depth of our service.
successful way of adding both skilled and semi-skilled staff to our not as yet have strong capabilities, such as deepwater offshore operations in the upstream sector.
We are also expanding our organisation, providing additional training as required.
geographic footprint, establishing a deeper presence in areas including the Middle East and West Africa.
How is Petrofac managing the threat of high employee attrition rates to retain and incentivise its employees?
We are building our capability organically, but when we identify There are three elements to attracting and retaining a high quality appropriate opportunities for acquisition we will pursue them as workforce.
The first element and this is one on which we have always What progress are you making with providing the wider concentrated is the provision of competitive compensation groups services into projects?
Secondly, we have introduced a number of share Our ability to integrate the capabilities of our three divisions into one schemes and we are keen to spread employee share ownership cohesive, customer-focused service is a key differentiator for Petrofac.
further still in the future.
Instances of such integration in action include the Harweel project The third element concerns the huge opportunities that people have in Oman, where Operations Services is providing training support to within a rapidly-growing business such as Petrofac.
As the Company operatives of the Harweel enhanced oil recovery plant which is being grows, so too can our people.
They can see a clear and professional built by Engineering & Construction, and all three divisions have career path here one that encourages them to succeed, rewards worked closely together in the Chergui development in Tunisia.
them appropriately and enables them to fulfil their personal and career goals.
So we are making good progress.
However, we can integrate even further and during 2008 we will continue to work towards being able to provide a seamless offering.
What was the biggest challenge you faced last year?
Maintaining and building our human resources capability was Ayman Asfari certainly one challenge that we rose to with some success during Group Chief Executive the year.
Beyond people issues, we have continued to look at our organisation and to ensure that as we grow we have the internal processes and resources to support that growth.
We initiated this focus, which includes evaluating our global IT systems, in 2007 and will continue to concentrate on it throughout 2008.
Photographs above from top to bottom a Operations at Chergui gas plant, Tunisia b Dubai Petroleum, Dubai c Bridge View Office, Aberdeen
