uk Our Unique Proposition Projects With our strong project pipeline, growing management team and our Core samples from Bolshoi Seym drilling programme geographical and ORE infrastructural bn 4.4 advantages, Aricom is tonnes of ore estimated in the projects uniquely placed going Mining has commenced at Kuranakh Focus remains on recruiting and training Close proximity to Russian-Chinese Advantageous location of projects close local talent border by rail to Trans-Siberian and BAM railroads K&S construction to commence in 2008 with first commercial production Strong management incorporating Current freight estimates compare Access to locally generated hydroelectric forward to access the expected in 2010 Russian operational expertise and favourably with global industrial power and the national grid Western market and corporate commodities producers Garinskoye pre-feasibility study experience Potential for further cost advantages substantial global expected in H1 2008 Long history of local mining and through planned bridge south of K&S exploration industrial commodities The Portfolio Aricoms current pipeline of four mining markets.
projects focuses the Group on creating a low cost Anglo-Russian industrial commodities champion.
Crucial operational experience will be learned through the Kuranakh deposit which commenced mining at the end of 2007, with the key Garinskoye and K&S projects to follow in an aggressive development programme.
There is also an opportunity to move further down the value chain through the development of the proposed titanium sponge plant in China and upgrading the K&S and Garinskoye processing of iron ore through to pig iron.
04 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 0 05 5 Company Overview Management Geography Infrastructure Sovetskaya Gavan Ulan Bator Aricom Board at the LSE opening Regional map of Russias Far East Electrical substation at Kuranakh EMPLOYEES PROXIMITY TO THE MARKET BRIDGE CAPACITY km mt 467 c. 60 20 employed by Aricom at the year end to the Russian-Chinese border from K&S annual capacity of proposed bridge over the Amur River Mining has commenced at Kuranakh Focus remains on recruiting and training Close proximity to Russian-Chinese Advantageous location of projects close local talent border by rail to Trans-Siberian and BAM railroads K&S construction to commence in 2008 with first commercial production Strong management incorporating Current freight estimates compare Access to locally generated hydroelectric expected in 2010 Russian operational expertise and favourably with global industrial power and the national grid Western market and corporate commodities producers Garinskoye pre-feasibility study experience Potential for further cost advantages expected in H1 2008 Long history of local mining and through planned bridge south of K&S exploration Our Most Valuable Asset is Our China Forecast to Double Iron Developing Access to Regional Team of People Ore Imports in the Next Six Years Infrastructure As the portfolio of projects has grown, so Both the Amur region and the EAO are rich Rail has the need for experienced people both in mineral resources.
Soviet era exploration All of the assets within the portfolio are for developing and operating the assets.
discovered a large number of mineral and planned to be connected to the rail Aricom made a number of key hires during metal deposits in this part of Russia and network.
Both the Trans-Siberian and BAM 2006 and 2007 at all levels.
The team is Aricom continues to review this information railways pass through the Amur region with constantly expanding and will continue to for potential additions to the portfolio.
With the Trans-Siberian continuing into the EAO do so, amongst the project portfolio and in the benefit of local rail transportation, the and running some 4km from the planned plant site for the K&S deposit.
This particular from Kuranakh to both K&S and Directors believe that the combination of an proximity to rail infrastructure is expected Garinskoye.
467 people were employed by abundance of mineral resources and the to give Aricom significant cost advantages.
the Group as at 31 December 2007 and a proximity to China, which is the largest large recruitment programme is ongoing growth market for industrial commodities in Power with a focus on recruiting and training local the world, is a valuable combination of Aricoms proposed operations are in areas employees at all our projects.
The Heilongjiang that have access to the national grid and to region of China has a number of steel the power provided from hydroelectric plants and Aricom is in discussion with the power stations located in this part of Russia.
owners of a number of these plants to Port supply iron ore.
It is estimated that Aricom is studying the viability of design approximately 400 million tonnes of iron and construction of a 7mtpa iron ore port ore were imported by China in 2007 and in Russias Far East to provide access to the that the Chinese market for iron ore is global sea borne market for its products.
