Corporate Governance Directors Report Report and Financial Statements The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Comparatives are for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Principal Activity The principal activity of the Group is the development of a vertically integrated mining, processing and marketing group concentrating on industrial commodities.
The main activities and assets of the Group are in Russia and the Group predominantly serves the Russian and Chinese markets.
Enhanced Business Review The enhanced business review of the Group has been covered by the disclosures contained in the Chairmans Statement on page 10, the Chief Executive Officers Review on page 11, the Financial Review on pages 40 to 42 and the Directors Report on pages 55 to 63.
The Key Performance Indicators Review has been covered by the disclosures contained on page 35.
Results, Review of the Business and Future Prospects The consolidated income statement is set out on page 67.
The Directors report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on page 10, the Chief Executive Officers Review on page 11 and the Financial Review on pages 40 to 42 which include information about the Groups business and performance during the period and an indication of future prospects.
Events subsequent to 31 December 2007 are set out in note 46.
The Directors have not recommended the payment of a dividend.
Risk Factors The exploration for and development of natural resources is a speculative activity that involves a high degree of risk.
The Directors believe that, in particular, readers of this report should be aware of these risks and uncertainties.
If any of these risks and uncertainties, together with possible additional risks and uncertainties of which the Directors are currently unaware or which they consider not to be material in relation to the Companys business, actually occur, the Companys business, financial position or operating results could be materially and adversely affected.
It should be noted that this list is not exhaustive and that certain other risk factors may apply.
In addition, financial risk management disclosures have been made in note 44 to the financial statements.
Geology and reserves The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant uncertainties and the Groups operations will be subject to all of the hazards and risks normally encountered in such activities.
In addition, any metals exploration programme entails risks relating to the location of economically viable orebodies, the development of appropriate metallurgical processes, the receipt of necessary governmental permits and the construction of mining and processing facilities.
No assurance can be given that any metals exploration programme will result in any new commercial mining operation or in the discovery of new resources.
Geological hazards and risks include unusual and unexpected geological formations, rock falls, flooding and other climatic conditions, any one of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, the Groups facilities, damage to life or property, environmental damage or pollution and legal liability which could have a material adverse impact on the business, operations and financial performance of the Company.
Although precautions to minimise risk will be taken, even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate all of the hazards and risks.
As is common with all exploration ventures, there is also uncertainty and therefore risk associated with the Groups operating parameters and costs.
These can be difficult to predict and are often affected by factors outside the Groups control.
With all metals and minerals operations there is uncertainty and, therefore, risk associated with operating parameters and costs resulting from the scaling up of extraction methods tested in pilot conditions.
Metals and minerals exploration is speculative in nature and there can be no assurance that any potential deposits discovered will result in an increase in the Groups mineable resource base.
In addition, it may take many years from the initial phase of exploration and drilling before production is possible.
During this time, the economic feasibility of exploiting a discovery may change as a result of changes in metal and or mineral market prices.
Implementation of new projects The Group has had limited business activity to date and its mining interests have not yet been fully developed into commercial production.
Implementation of the Groups projects will in most cases require, inter alia, conclusion of agreements with third parties and government consents.
There is no certainty that any of these will be achieved and thus no certainty that these projects can be implemented or that they will be successful were they to be implemented.
In pursuing the proposed projects, the Company may find itself in competition with companies with more substantial resources.
A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 5 55 5 Job: 10301 ARICOM AR-MID AW.
indd Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: TIM Date: 19.02.08 Server: Studio II Set-up: Tim First Read Revisions www.
uk Directors Report continued Risk Factors continued Prices and demand The Groups earnings are intended to be principally derived from the mining and processing of metal bearing ores and are therefore related to the market prices of such metals and related products.
Iron, iron ore and titanium dioxide are currently trading at historically high levels, and there is no certainty that these prices will be maintained.
Although the Groups anticipated costs of mining and production are expected to be relatively low by world standards, the Groups ability to achieve or maintain earnings, pay dividends in the future and undertake capital expenditure may be affected in the event of a sustained material fall in the price of the relevant metals and or related products.
The Group is targeting the Chinese market for a significant proportion of its future sales.
A decline in Chinese demand, and or an increase in Chinese domestic production or other competition, could adversely affect the Groups performance and prospects.
Joint Venture arrangements may not be finalised The Group has a minority interest in the Bolshoi Seym deposit, and the Bolshoi Seym joint venture arrangements are yet to be finalised.
The Group has a 49% interest in Uralmining, a Russian company holding the licence to develop the Bolshoi Seym deposit.
The Group is in the process of negotiating a joint venture agreement with the proposed other participant in Uralmining, KMT, a company related to the Interros investment group, a large Russian private investment company.
If implemented, the joint venture agreement will provide certain minority protections for Aricom.
If the joint venture is not entered into, the Company will remain as a minority shareholder in Uralmining, without any additional contractual rights in respect of the Bolshoi Seym deposit.
The Titanium Sponge Project may not proceed In June 2006, Chinalco, the largest nonferrous metal company in China and owner of Chinas largest titanium metal processing plant, signed a memorandum of understanding with Aricom for the design and development of a titanium sponge production plant in China further to which Chinalco and Aricom signed a heads of agreement and jointly entered into a cooperation agreement with Jiamusi City in May 2007.
Aricom also entered into an additional memorandum of understanding with Chinalco in December 2007.
While these agreements set forth the principles towards the completion of the project there is no certainty that the initial arrangements will progress to definitive documentation binding the parties to complete the transaction.
The Groups mineral licences may be challenged, which may prevent or severely curtail the Groups use of the affected mineral deposits The Groups mineral rights may be challenged or impugned, and insurance for these rights may not be available, or the Group may elect not to be so insured because of high premium costs.
Each sovereign state is the sole authority able to grant mineral exploration and or exploitation rights, and the Groups ability to maintain extraction rights on some of the Groups properties is dependent, inter alia, on the Russian Governments policy and rules for use of subsoil.
Title to the land plots on which the Group has subsoil exploration and extraction rights may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects.
In addition, a variety of factors beyond the Groups control may preclude the Group from operating its mineral rights as permitted or not allow the Group to enforce its mineral rights with respect to any of its deposits despite having the right to explore and develop them.
The licensing regime in Russia for the exploration, extraction and production of minerals is governed primarily by the Subsoil Law and regulations promulgated thereunder.
The Groups licences provide that they may be revoked if the Group fails to comply with any of the licence requirements, such as minimum work commitments, if the Group does not make timely payments of levies and taxes for the use of the subsoil, if the Group systematically fails to provide information, if the immediate licence holders go bankrupt or if the Group fails to fulfil any capital expenditure or production obligations or both.
There have been press reports that the Russian Government is considering proposals involving the replacement of the current subsoil licensing system with a new system based on civil law regulated agreements between subsoil users and the state.
It is not yet clear whether these proposals will be implemented and what effect this would have on the Groups operations.
There is a risk that the implementation of these or any other proposals which will change the Russian subsoil licensing system may have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
The Group is Involved in litigation in relation to the award of Garinskoye licence The Group was involved in two related legal proceedings in which LLC AREK Geologiya the Claimant, an unsuccessful bidder in the tender through which the Garinskoye licence the Licence was awarded, sought to void the grant of the Licence to LLC Amurmining now LLC Garinskiy Mining and Metallurgical Complex, a Group subsidiary.
The first action the Amur action was filed in a commercial court in the Amur Region of Russia where the Garinskoye deposit is located.
The second action the Moscow action was filed in a commercial court in Moscow where Rosnedra, the authority which issued the Licence, is located.
Rosnedra is named as a defendant in both actions: Garinskiy is named as defendant in the Amur Action and as an interested party in the Moscow Action.
In November 2007 the court of first instance dismissed the Claimants claim and refused to recognise the decision of the tender committee on the results of the tender as unlawful, Rosnedras order approving the results of the tender as void and the Licence as invalid.
The Claimant appealed this decision, however on 28 January 2008 the Moscow court of appeal upheld the decision of the court of first instance.
Therefore, the claims of LLC AREK Geologiya to challenge the tender results were rejected.
This decision may be appealed within two months from the date of the decision.
56 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 5 57 7 Corporate Governance The Group is involved in litigation in relation to the award of Garinskoye licence continued Initially the Amur Action was suspended pending the outcome of the Moscow Action.
After the decision in the Moscow action the Amur action was revived and the Company expects that the decision in the Amur Action will follow the decision in the Moscow Action.
The Company believes that the Claimants claims are of limited merit and therefore these proceedings do not represent a material threat to the Garinskoye licence or the Group.
The Groups exploration, development and production licences may be suspended or revoked prior to their expiration Generally, compliance with various government regulations requires the Group to obtain permits issued by Russian governmental agencies.
Some permits require periodic renewal or review of their conditions.
The Group cannot predict whether the Group will be able to renew these permits or whether material changes in permit conditions will be imposed.
Non-renewal of a permit may cause the Group to discontinue the operations requiring the permit, and the imposition of additional conditions on a permit may cause the Group to incur additional compliance costs, either of which could have a material adverse affect on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
Additionally, the Group may not be able to, or may voluntarily decide not to, comply, or may not have complied in all respects, with the licence requirements for some or all of its licences.
If the Group fails to fulfil the specific terms of any of its licences or if the Group operates in the licence areas in a manner that violates Russian law, regulators may impose fines on the Group or suspend or revoke its licences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its operations.
The Group may not be able to finance the Groups planned capital expenditures The Groups business requires significant capital expenditures, including in exploration and development, production, transport, refining and meeting the Groups obligations under environmental laws and regulations.
However, in the next two to five years the Group expects to finance a substantial part of these capital expenditures out of the proceeds of the Placing in June 2007 and from external borrowings.
No assurance can be given that the Group will be able to raise the financing required for the Groups planned capital expenditures, on a secured basis or otherwise, on acceptable terms or at all.
If the Group is unable to raise the necessary financing, the Group will have to reduce the Groups planned capital expenditures.
Any such reduction could adversely affect the Groups ability to develop any of the Groups mineral resources.
If the reductions are severe enough, the Group may not be able to commence operations at one or more of its licensed territories.
If the Group does not perform mineral exploration programmes required by the terms of the relevant licences, these licences may be revoked or may lapse and the Group will lose all interest that the Group has in these deposits.
The Groups ability to obtain outside financing will depend in part upon the prices of ilmenite and iron ore and the industrys perception of their future price and other factors outside the Groups control.
Cash constraints and strategic considerations may also lead the Group to dispose of all or part of the Groups interests in some of the Groups projects or mineral rights or to seek third parties jointly to develop one or more projects.
The Groups interest in Garinskoye currently comprises 99.58%, following the approval by Shareholders of the transaction at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 15 February 2008.
This would require Aricom to fund the capital expenditure in line with its higher shareholding.
Reserves and resources may be subject to restatement The resource and reserve estimates contained on page 25 are estimates of the resources and reserves in the ground on the Groups existing licensed territories.
The Groups ore resources and reserves are estimates based upon many factors, including: the results of exploratory drilling and an ongoing sampling of the ore bodies: past experience with mining properties: and the experience of the person making the reserve estimates.
Because the Groups ore resource and reserve estimates are calculated based on current estimates of production costs and product prices, they should not be interpreted as assurances of the economic life of the Groups deposits or the profitability of the Groups future operations.
Resource and reserve estimates may require revisions based on the definitive exploration figures and actual production experience.
Furthermore, a sustained decline in relevant market prices could render ore resources and reserves containing lower grades and or mineralisation uneconomic to recover and ultimately require a restatement of reserves and resources.
Any failure of the reserves and resources to meet the Groups recovery expectations may have a materially adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
The mineral experts report on the mineral assets of the Group is a review based on data provided by the Group, much of which originated from Soviet research undertaken in the 1950s and 1960s.
The data and its interpretation could be inaccurate resulting in higher levels of required initial investment.
A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 5 57 7 Job: 10301 ARICOM AR-MID AW.
uk Directors Report continued Payment obligations Under the exploration licences and other contractual agreements to which the Group companies are or may in the future become parties, such companies are or may become subject to payment and other obligations.
If such obligations are not complied with when due, in addition to any other remedies which may be available to other parties, this could result in dilution or forfeiture of interests held by such companies.
Currency risk The Companys functional currency is GB pounds and it presents its accounts in US dollars US$.
A large part of the Groups expenses is denominated in RUR which have been appreciating against the US dollar for the last 24 months.
The Group also has expenses and income denominated in other currencies, including those of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Groups financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the exchange rates between currencies in which it operates.
The expenditure relating to the planned titanium sponge plant in China is expected to be met in part in Chinese yuan.
Adverse movements in the US$ RMB exchange rate could impact the Groups profitability.
Environmental regulations The Groups operations are subject to the extensive environmental risks inherent in the mining and processing industry.
Although the Directors believe that the subsidiaries are in compliance in all material respects with any applicable environmental laws and regulations and hold all necessary approvals, licences and permits under those laws and regulations, there are certain risks inherent in their activities and those which the Group will undertake in the future, such as risks of accidental spills, leakages or other unforeseen circumstances, that could subject the Group to extensive liability.
In addition, the Group is subject to checks, including spot checks, by various regulators including Rosprirodnazor, the environmental regulator in Russia.
Environmental legislation and permitting requirements are likely to evolve in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance.
However, the Group is unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially increase the Groups cost of doing business or affect its operations in any area.
During the conduct of operations the Group is subject to regular inspections and reporting requirements for a range of issues relating to environmental pollution, and must comply with maximum acceptable concentrations, determined by state authorities, for air quality, water quality, soils and sediments.
Any issues identified in such inspections or reporting processes and or any breach of these requirements could have adverse consequences for the Group.
Permitting Both ahead of the commencement of operations by Aricom, including at Kuranakh where certain permits remain to be obtained, and during the conduct of operations, a range of permits are required to be obtained from different authorities and the OVOS must be approved by state environmental experts.
Additionally certain activity must be discussed in advance with local communities and other interested persons.
Any failure to obtain, or delay in obtaining, any permits or approvals could adversely affect the Groups investment plans and or operations, which could in turn adversely affect the Group.
Operational considerations The Groups operational targets are subject to the completion of planned operational goals on time and according to budget, and are dependent on the effective support of the Groups personnel, systems, procedures and controls.
Any failure of these may result in delays in the achievement of operational targets with a consequent material adverse impact on the business, operations and financial performance of the Company.
The location of the Kuranakh, K&S, Garinskoye and Bolshoi Seym deposits means that climatic conditions have an impact on operations and, in particular, severe weather could disrupt the delivery of supplies, equipment and fuel.
It is, therefore, possible that exploration and extraction activity levels might fluctuate as a result of meteorological factors.
Unscheduled interruptions in the Companys operations due to mechanical or other failures or industrial relations related issues or problems or issues with the supply of goods or services could have a serious impact on the financial performance of those operations.
58 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 5 59 9 Corporate Governance Lack of infrastructure may adversely affect the Groups ability to develop its resources The Groups current and proposed reserves and resources are situated in areas lacking infrastructure required to develop and operate the Groups reserves and resources.
The Group must invest heavily into the construction of the required mining and auxiliary infrastructure such as roads, loading terminals, railways connecting to the BAM and or Trans-Siberian railways and staff living quarters.
Construction and operation of this infrastructure will require substantial capital expenditure by the Group and no assurance can be given that the market conditions will continue to make such investments viable.
Kuranakh and Bolshoi Seym are located in close proximity to the BAM railway, which is operated by a state owned company, OJSC Russian Railways.
State-owned infrastructure in Russia largely dates back to Soviet times and much has not been adequately funded and maintained over the last 15-20 years.
Particularly affected are the rail and road networks, building stocks and power generation and transmission.
Currently, the Russian Government sets rail tariffs and may further increase these tariffs as it has done in the past.
The Group could be adversely affected by insufficient capacity on the BAM railway.
Although the construction of a cross-border rail bridge in close proximity to K&S may be beneficial to the Groups operations, there is no certainty that the necessary intergovernmental approvals will be forthcoming or that such bridge will be constructed.
Labour Certain of the Groups operations are carried out under potentially hazardous conditions.
Whilst the Group intends to continue to operate in accordance with relevant health and safety regulations and requirements, the Group remains susceptible to the possibility that liabilities might arise as a result of accidents or other workforce-related misfortunes, some of which may be beyond the Groups control.
The Group is undertaking a substantial recruitment programme to staff its increasing operations.
If the Group is unable to recruit the required personnel with the required skills, this could adversely affect the Groups investment plans and or operations, which could in turn adversely affect the Group.
Significant increases in labour costs could adversely affect the Group.
Uninsured risks The Group, as a participant in exploration and mining programmes, may become subject to liability for hazards that cannot be insured against, which could exceed policy limits or against which it may elect not to be so insured because of high premium costs.
The Group may incur a liability to third parties in excess of any insurance cover arising from pollution or other damage or injury.
The insurance industry in Russia is in a relatively early stage of development and, accordingly, the available cover is relatively limited.
Many forms of insurance designed to protect against hazards, common in other parts of the world, are not yet generally available in some of the areas where the Group operates.
The Group does not have full coverage for all of its plant and facilities, for business interruption, for thirdparty liability in respect of property, and for environmental damage arising from accidents on its property or relating to its operations.
Until the Group is able, or decides, to obtain adequate insurance coverage, there is a risk that losses and liabilities arising from such events could significantly increase its costs and have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.
Project development risks There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage effectively the expansion of its operations or that the Groups current personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support the Groups operations.
Any failure of management to manage effectively the Groups growth and development could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
There is no certainty that all or any of the elements of the Groups current strategy will develop as anticipated.
Dependence on key personnel The Groups business is dependent on retaining the services of a small number of key personnel of the appropriate calibre as the business develops.
There is no assurance that the Group will be able to attract and retain such key personnel.
The success of the Group is, and will continue to be to a significant extent, dependent on the expertise and experience of the Directors and senior management and the loss of one or more could have a materially adverse effect on the Group.
Litigation Legal proceedings may arise from time to time in the course of the Companys business.
The Directors cannot prevent litigation being brought against the Company or any of its subsidiaries in future from time to time.
A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 5 59 9 Job: 10301 ARICOM AR-MID AW.
uk Directors Report continued Risks relating to the jurisdictions in which the Group operates Economic, political, judicial, administrative, taxation or other regulatory factors The Group may be adversely affected by changes in economic, political, judicial, administrative, taxation or other regulatory factors, in the areas in which the Group will operate and holds its major assets, as well as other unforeseen matters.
The jurisdictions in which the Company operates may in some cases have less established judicial systems, a more volatile political environment and or more challenging trading conditions than in some other parts of the world.
Unlawful, selective or arbitrary government action could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business and prospects.
The Group is subject to a broad range of taxes imposed at the federal, regional and local levels, including but not limited to income tax, mineral extraction taxes, royalty tax, sales tax, property tax, social taxes and road use tax.
Laws related to these taxes, such as the Russian Tax Code, have been in force for a short period relative to tax laws in more developed market economies: therefore, the implementation of these tax laws by different tax authorities and courts is often unclear and or inconsistent.
Accordingly, few precedents with regard to the interpretation of these laws have been established.
The Group seeks legal and tax advice and seeks to comply with all the relevant tax laws and regulations to the best of its abilities.
However, no assurances can be made that tax authorities and or courts will apply various tax laws and regulations in a way consistent with that taken by the Group.
If the tax authorities and or courts adopt a different interpretation of various tax laws and regulations, the Group may have to pay significantly higher taxes, and impose additional burdens and costs on the Groups operations, including management resources, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
The Groups assets are located in Russia, a country which is still moving from a command to market-driven economy.
While this process of change is establishing in Russia a more western-style business environment, there are still substantial differences between it and more developed economies and countries, including a volatile financial system, political and or economic instability and or lack of transparency, and both these differences and the ongoing processes, could adversely affect the Group and its operations.
Ethnic, religious, historical and other divisions have, on occasion, given rise to tensions, armed conflict and terrorist activity.
Any spread of violence or terrorism, or political measures taken to counter them, could hinder the operation and the expansion of the Groups business.
Various recent developments in Russia including the tightening of state control over the economy have caused some concern in relation to the investment climate in the country and no assurances can be given that various steps taken or being debated in the Russian Government will not affect investment into Russia or the public perception thereof.
Risks relating to the March 2008 Russian presidential elections On 2 March 2008, Russia is due to have presidential elections.
The incumbent President Vladimir Putin is barred by the Russian Constitution from seeking a third consecutive term.
On 17 December 2007, President Putin agreed to become the Russian Prime Minister following the 2008 Presidential Elections if Mr Medvedev current Prime Minister is successful in his attempt to win them.
The changes to the Cabinet may result in major policy shifts which could affect the Group.
There can be no guarantee that there will be a smooth transition of power, and that a successor will continue the policies favoured by President Putin.
Any political instability or major policy shifts could impact on the Groups prospects.
China The Company will be exposed to the Chinese economy and to the state of diplomatic relations between Russia and China.
Deterioration in the Chinese economy and or in the trading environment could adversely affect the trading position of the Company.
Similarly the imposition of export controls in Russia or import controls in China could adversely affect the Companys operations.
Legal and regulatory environment There is no guarantee that the Group will be successful in all attempts to obtain mining licences.
There is no guarantee of the terms of any future mining licence.
The exploration and extraction activities of the Group are subject to various laws governing prospecting, development, production taxes, labour standards and occupational health, site safety, toxic substances and other matters.
Although the Directors believe that the Groups exploration activities are currently carried out in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations relevant to the current stage of development and that the Group holds all necessary approvals, licences and permits under those laws and regulations for its current activities, no assurance can be given that new rules and regulations will not be enacted or that existing rules and regulations will not be applied in a manner which could limit or curtail exploration, production or development.
Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of exploration for and extraction of mineral resources, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the business, operations and financial performance of the Group.
In some cases, existing or future licences cover, or will cover, only the extraction of specified minerals.
In such cases, the exploitation of other minerals may require additional licences to be obtained, and there can be no certainty that these will be forthcoming.
60 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 6 61 1 Corporate Governance Risks relating to the Aricom Securities Liquidity Although the Aricom Securities are listed on the Official List, this should not be taken as implying that there will be a liquid market in the Aricom Securities.
An investment in the Aricom securities may, therefore, in certain circumstances be difficult to realise.
The Company can give no assurance that an active trading market for the Warrants will be sustained.
Should the Warrant holders decide to exercise their warrants, this would result in a dilution of the interests of the Shareholders at the time of the issue of any ordinary shares pursuant to such exercise.
Investment risk Prospective investors should be aware that the value of an investment in the Company may go down as well as up.
In addition, there can be no certainty that the market price of an investment in the Company will fully reflect its underlying value.
The price at which investors may dispose of their Aricom Securities may be influenced by a number of factors, some of which may be related to the Company and some not.
Investors may realise less than the original amount invested.
General The risks noted above are not intended to be presented in any assumed order of priority.
Supplier payment policy The Group does not follow any specific external code or standard on payment terms.
Instead, responsibility for determining payment terms is delegated to the individual businesses within the Group which take into account local market and industry practice.
As a Group, the policy for determining payment terms is either to agree terms of payment at the start of a binding contract or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the individual businesses usual payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations, and reflects local market practices.
The Company is a holding company and, as such, has few suppliers.
Trade creditor days of the Group at 31 December 2007 were 23 days 2006: 26 days.
Charitable and political contributions The Group did not make any charitable or political donations in 2007 2006: nil.
Directors The Directors who held office at any time during the year under review are set out below: Brian Egan Chief Financial Officer appointed 31 July 2007 Sir Malcolm Field Senior Non-Executive Director Jay Hambro Chief Executive Officer Peter Hambro Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Peter Howes Finance Director resigned 31 July 2007 Sir Roderic Lyne Non-Executive Director Yuri Makarov Operations Director Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Non-Executive Chairman Martin Smith Technical Director Directors interests The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected parties in the share capital of the Company as at 1 January 2007, 31 December 2007 and at the date of this report were as follows: 1 January 2007 31 December 2007 20 February 2008 Ordinary shares of 0.001 each: Sir Malcolm Field 500,000 1,205,000 1,205,000 Peter Hambro 31,266,955 92,601,729 92,601,729 Sir Roderic Lyne 26,000 26,000 Dr Pavel Maslovskiy 52,400,223 92,779,094 92,779,094 Warrants: Sir Malcolm Field 35,000 35,000 Jay Hambro 135,000 135,000 No other Directors had an interest in the shares of the Company.
As at 31 December 2007, the Directors held no interests in any other Group companies.
A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 6 61 1 Job: 10301 ARICOM AR-MID AW.
uk Directors Report continued Directors interests continued Details of Directors share options are given below: Number Date of of shares Exercise grant under option price Period over which exercisable Executive Directors: Jay Hambro 19 07 2006 2,500,000 0.42 19 07 200919 07 2012 Yuri Makarov 19 07 2006 800,000 0.42 19 07 200919 07 2012 Martin Smith 19 07 2006 400,000 0.42 19 07 200919 07 2012 Former Director: Peter Howes 31 12 2003 400,000 0.15 31 12 200628 03 2008 Details of allocations made to Directors under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan are given below.
1 January 2007 31 December 2007 Number Price Term 1 Brian Egan n a 2,000,000 0.62 3 years 1 Jay Hambro n a 2,000,000 0.62 3 years 1 Yuri Makarov n a 2,000,000 0.62 3 years 1 Martin Smith n a 2,000,000 0.62 3 years The LTIP was established during the year ended 31 December 2007.
The above are maximum allocations, subject to the attainment of objectives as described in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 54.
Directors Indemnities The Company has made no qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors during the year or which remain in force at the date of this report other than Directors and Officers Insurance.
Capital Structure Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 34 to the accounts.
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no rights to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 54.
Shares held by the Aricom plc Employee Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued ordinary shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of Shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board, copies of which are available on request, and in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 43 to 46.
The Company has authority to issue shares under its Articles of Association and an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 April 2008 to authorise Directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 403,706.
This represents the aggregate of one third of the nominal value of the ordinary shares in issue as at the date of this report and of the ordinary shares subject to existing options.
A further resolution is to be proposed which will disapply the statutory pre-emption rights for issues of ordinary shares for certain purposes.
Further details of the above are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, posted with this Annual Report.
The Company was granted authority to repurchase up to 10% of its issued share capital at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 4 June 2007.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 April 2008 unless renewed at that meeting.
The Company has not made use of this authority during the year under review.
The Board will seek shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to for the authority to repurchase up to 5% of the issued share capital and the full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, posted with this this Annual Report.
62 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 6 63 3 Corporate Governance Notifiable Share Interests At the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following direct and indirect interests in excess of 3% of its issued share capital: Shareholder Number of shares held % Malavasia Enterprises Inc. 145,000,000 12.64 Lansdowne Partners Limited 109,770,746 9.57 Pavel Maslovskiy and associates 92,779,094 8.08 Peter Hambro and associates 92,601,729 8.07 Morstan Nominees Ltd Morgan Stanley Group 54,716,335 4.77 Capital Group International 52,406,439 4.57 Legal & General Group Plc 44,365,657 3.87 The Company has not received notification that any other person holds 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Auditors In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Aricom plc and signed on its behalf by: Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Chairman 20 February 2008 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 6 63 3
