Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Combined Code The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies listed on a regulated market to disclose how they have applied the principles of and complied with the provisions of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2006 the Combined Code.
This report, together with the Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Audit Committee Report, indicates how the Company has applied the principles of good governance of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 or, where the Company has not complied with the Combined Code, explains the reasons why.
The Board is responsible for ensuring an appropriate level of corporate governance and intends, to the extent otherwise disclosed, to comply with the main provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board The Group is led and controlled by the Board of Directors.
The Board currently consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are considered to be independent under the Combined Code but all of whom the Board judges to be independent, as explained below.
The Board believes that it is appropriate to have a Senior Independent Director and Sir Malcolm Field fulfils this role.
Details of the individuals skills and experience are contained in the Directors biographies on page 36.
The Group meets regularly on at least four scheduled occasions during each year and more frequently if necessary.
In 2007, there were four scheduled Board meetings, 26 unscheduled Board or Committee meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, five Remuneration Committee meetings held and two Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings now two separate committees the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee and the attendance by Directors was as follows: Remuneration Scheduled Unscheduled Audit & Nomination Remuneration Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1,2 Sir Malcolm Field 4 14 3 2 5 Jay Hambro 4 26 1,2 Peter Hambro 4 19 3 2 5 Brian Egan appointed on 31 July 2007 1 11 1,2 Sir Roderic Lyne 3 11 3 2 5 Yuri Makarov 3 9 3 Dr Pavel Maslovskiy 4 12 1 1 Martin Smith 4 12 Peter Howes resigned on 31 July 2007 3 15 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee formerly called the Remuneration and Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee formerly called the Remuneration and Nomination Committee until 11 September 2007 Brian Egan was appointed during the year and therefore was not eligible to attend all the above meetings.
The unscheduled Board or Committee meetings in 2007 were held to issue formal approvals, or deal with other matters of a routine or administrative nature, which did not require attendance of the full Board.
In addition, there were three Executive Committee meetings in 2007, attended by Brian Egan, Jay Hambro, Yuri Makarov and Martin Smith.
The Board is responsible for the determination and monitoring of the Groups strategic aims and values, the direction and control of the Group and the management of the capital structure and will also ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board works closely with the operational management to achieve the Groups objectives.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
Individual Directors may seek independent advice at the expense of the Company within certain limits.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers Liability Insurance.
A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 4 43 3 Job: 10301 ARICOM AR-MID AW.
indd Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: TIM Date: 19.02.08 Server: Studio II Set-up: Tim First Read Revisions www.
uk Corporate Governance continued Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly separated and have been set out in writing.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, for facilitating the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and ensuring a constructive relationship between all Directors.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the effective leadership of the management team in running the business.
The Chairman holds discussions with Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The independent Non-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman being present at least annually to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman and Chief Executive ensure there is appropriate communication with Shareholders and participate in regular and ongoing visits to major Shareholders.
Board Balance and Independence The Board believes that it has sufficient members to contain a balance of experience and skills, but is not so large as to be unwieldy.
The Board includes a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors such that no individual, or group of individuals, can dominate the Boards decision making.
No one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
However, the Combined Code recommends that at least half the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors and since there is no majority of Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman, the Company does not comply with the Combined Code in this area.
The Board keeps the membership of committees under review to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
Under the Combined Code, two of the four Non-Executive Directors, Peter Hambro and Pavel Maslovskiy the Chairman, would not be viewed as independent and therefore the Company does not comply with the Combined Code in this respect.
However, the Board believes that independence is not a state of mind that can be measured objectively and, given the character, judgement and decision making process of the individuals involved, the Board believes that these Directors can be considered independent.
The majority of the members of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Given the size of the Company, the Board believes that having a Remuneration Committee and an Audit Committee comprised of three members is appropriate.
However, the Combined Code recommends that at least three members of these committees should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board reviews the independence of the Directors annually and all new appointments will be made after consideration of the independence of Directors.
Sir Malcolm Field has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director and is available to Shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
Appointments to the Board The Board follows a procedure for the appointment of Directors, including an induction programme for the Director concerned.
Aricom has established a separate Nomination Committee formerly called the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Sir Malcolm Field and the other members are Sir Roderic Lyne and Dr Pavel Maslovskiy.
The Nomination Committee will regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make any recommendations to the Board where necessary.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession planning of Directors and for the identification and nomination of candidates to fill vacancies where necessary.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In the case of candidates for Non-Executive Directorships, care is taken to ascertain whether they have sufficient time available to meet their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for public inspection.
During the year, Brian Egan was appointed as a Director of the Company.
The Board employed the services of an external consultant who provided the Board with a shortlist of candidates, from which Brian Egan was appointed.
The Chairman is the Chief Operating Officer of Peter Hambro Mining plc and Director of various subsidiary companies in the Peter Hambro Mining Group.
The Chief Executive Officer is a Non-Executive Director of Peter Hambro Mining plc.
Changes to these commitments will be reported to the Board.
44 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 4 45 5 Corporate Governance Board Committees The Board has established four committees and provides sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Membership of these committees as at the date of this report is shown below.
Health, Safety & Audit Remuneration Nomination Environmental Executive Non-Executive Directors: Sir Malcolm Field Chairman Chairman Chairman Member Peter Hambro Member Member Sir Roderic Lyne Member Member Member Chairman Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Member Member Executive Directors: Brian Egan Member Jay Hambro Member Yuri Makarov Member Martin Smith Member Member Terms of Reference of these committees are available on the Companys website at www.
uk Related Party Transactions The Company has established procedures to ensure that all transactions with related parties are reviewed and approved by members of the management and the Board who have no conflict of interest in the given transaction.
Where appropriate, due to the required level of authority, transactions are reviewed by a committee of members of the Board who are independent of the transaction.
Full details of the related party transactions are given in note 45 to the financial statements.
Information and Professional Development The Board is supplied with regular and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the Executive Directors or management.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors continually update their skills and knowledge, and develop the familiarity with the Companys operations needed to fulfil their role.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating all Directors knowledge and capabilities, both on appointment and subsequently as necessary.
In addition, Board committees are provided with sufficient resources, plus the power to co-opt such additional support as they may require from time to time, to undertake their duties.
All Directors have access to the services of a professionally qualified and experienced Company Secretary, who is responsible for information flows to the Board, facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required, ensuring compliance with Board procedure and applicable laws and regulation and advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a Board decision.
Performance Evaluation The Board has introduced a formal performance evaluation procedure for the Board as a whole and for the committees.
The Board will consider and review the findings of this process annually.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the performance review of Directors and the independent Non-Executive Directors are responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Re-election of Directors The Board formally reviews succession plans for all key management roles, including Executive Directorships, on an ongoing basis.
All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to submit themselves to Shareholders for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
In addition, the appointment of each Director is reviewed by other members of the Board prior to that Director seeking re-election at a forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Biographical details of all Directors are included on page 36.
Remuneration While the Board is ultimately responsible for Directors remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, consisting solely of Non-Executive Directors, is responsible for determining the remuneration and conditions of employment of Executive Directors and senior Executives.
Directors abstain from decisions determining their own remuneration.
A report on Directors remuneration, including a more detailed description of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 49 to 54.
The Companys policy is that no compensation will be payable when a Directors appointment is terminated for reasons of unsatisfactory performance.
A payment of 30,000 as compensation for loss of employment was made to Peter Howes, who resigned as a Director on 31 July 2007.
The Company has in place a Long Term Incentive Plan which was established during 2007.
Contrary to Combined Code requirements, Shareholder approval was not sought since there was no legal requirement to seek such approval.
A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 4 45 5 Job: 10301 ARICOM AR-MID AW.
uk Corporate Governance continued Accountability and Audit The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all documents released by the Group and the Company, including the Annual Report, present a fair and accurate assessment of the Group and the Companys position and prospects.
The Board is responsible for the Group and the Companys system of internal controls, excluding associates, and conducts an annual review to identify and evaluate risk, including financial, operational and compliance risk, and to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board is satisfied that the system of internal controls has operated effectively throughout the year and that it has taken any necessary actions to address any issues arising.
The Company has established an Audit Committee and a report by this committee is on pages 47 to 48.
The Audit Committee reviews an internal controls report at each meeting and the Companys Governance and Control Policy and Procedure manual is reviewed and updated regularly and circulated to the Board and senior management for review.
The Audit Committee routinely receives reports relating to the external audit process and discusses matters of internal control.
The Audit Committee reviews non audit services provided by the Auditors, details of which are disclosed in note 11 on page 84.
The Committee is satisfied that the objectivity and independence of Auditors is maintained by ensuring that non audit services are led by a partner other than the Companys audit partner.
Relations with Shareholders The Combined Code encourages a dialogue with institutional Shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Directors including the Non-Executive Directors have regular and ongoing communication with institutional Shareholders and Executive Directors participate in investor roadshows, visits to Shareholders and scheduled half yearly updates.
Feedback from these visits is reported to the Board to ensure that the Board understands the views of major Shareholders.
In addition, the Chairman routinely offers Shareholders the opportunity of meeting with either himself, the Chief Executive or the Senior Independent Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters Shareholders wish to raise.
In 2007, the Board commissioned a shareholder analysis report which was prepared by an independent advisory company.
As part of this process, major Shareholders views and opinions were canvassed and reported fully to the Board.
The Company maintains a website at www.
uk which is regularly updated and contains a wide range of information about the Group.
The Combined Code encourages boards to use the annual general meeting to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
The Board welcomes as many Shareholders as possible to attend the Annual General Meeting and Shareholders are given the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to discuss any issues of interest or concern, including performance, governance or strategy, with the Directors.
At general meetings, the Chairman will announce the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against and abstentions, after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in respect of each substantially separate issue.
The Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will deal with matters relating to those committees.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Aricom plc and signed on its behalf by: Heather Williams FCIS Company Secretary 20 February 2008 46 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 4 47 7
