uk Infrastructure Bridge Project Proposed bridge site Existing connection to the Russian railway systems Artists impression 28 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 2 29 9 Business Review Existing connection to the Chinese railway systems The location of the proposed bridge will link the Russian and Chinese railway systems and allow Aricom to significantly reduce its transport costs.
Aricom, the construction of the railway Proposed RussiaChina Bridge bridge and the refurbishment of the in EAo Birobidjan-Leninsk railway branch are Aricom is intending to participate in the included in the Federal special programme construction of a bridge over the Amur Economic and Social development of the River.
The site is close to the Russian town Far East and Transbaikal before the year of of Nizhneleninskoye and the Chinese town 2013.
The project is also included in the of Tongjiang.
The river at this location has Draft of the Strategy of development of an approximate width of c. 1,000m and railway transport in Russia before 2030. maximum depth of c. 5-6m.
Construction of the bridge over the Amur The Russian railway network has a was discussed in Moscow on 6-7 November connection to the town of Nizhneleninskoye during the visit of Chinese Prime Minister from the Trans-Siberian Railway station at Wen Jiabao.
Both parties strongly support Bridge the capital of the EAO, Birobidjan.
The draft of the relevant connects the network to Nizhneleninskoye intergovernmental agreement was received where there is an established crossing point from the Chinese Ministry for Foreign of the river border.
This crossing is served Affairs and is currently being considered by by a natural ice bridge for three months of Russian Ministries and Agencies.
It is the year and a ferry for the remainder.
envisaged that the agreement, the main approval document permitting to start As a result of the work completed jointly design and construction, could be signed with the Government of the EAO, Ministry in the first half of 2008. of Transport of Russia, Ministry for Economic Development of Russia, Ministry of the Regional Development of Russia and A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 2 29 9 www.
uk Infrastructure Sea Port Project The project is supported by Russian Federal and Khabarovsk Krai local governments.
The construction of the sea terminal is already included in Russian Federal Special Programme Economic and social development of Russias Far East and Transbaikal by 2013, Prospective Economy Development Plan of Khabarovsk Krai, Baikal-Amur Mainline BAM Strategic Development Plan by 2020, and OAO Russian Railways General Development Plan by 2030.
Given the small scale of existing industrial enterprises in Sovetsko-Gavanski Municipal District, the terminal may become a landmark enterprise in the area.
Russian Research Institute NPO Gidroteks Vladivostok has completed a Preliminary Feasibility Study of the project, including an Environmental Impact Assessment Report.
The Environmental Report has already obtained approval of the Russian Federal Service for Ecological, Technical and Nuclear Supervision Rostekhnadzor.
Cargo turnover of the terminal could be increased from 7mtpa up to 12mtpa, if the handling of vessels with deadweight capacity of up to 100,000t was enabled.
OAO Dalgiprotrans Khabarovsk, a local engineering company, completed a preliminary design of the railway part of the CoNSTRUCTIoN proposed terminal.
It suggests increasing SITE oF THE IRoN oRE the cargo handling capacity of Desna TERMINAL railway station and Sovetskaya Gavan marshal yard, construction of a new railway station near the port and also new rail sidings in the terminal.
The Group rented a plot of land of 100ha on Maria Cape in Sovetskaya Gavan Bay for design and exploration works.
Competitive selection of the contractor for the design and exploration works is being carried out.
Map of Sovetskaya Gavan Bay The main factor constraining the beginning In order to reduce transport costs and to The new terminal could be constructed in of construction of the new terminal is the improve the number of logistical options the area of the existing Sovetskaya Gavan slow cargo carrying capacity of the for the Groups mining projects, Aricom Sea Port situated in the Sovetsko-Gavanski  is studying the viability of the design Municipal District of Khabarovsk Krai.
In view of this and construction of a 7mtpa iron ore Located at the terminus of the BAM problem, Aricom is currently negotiating transhipment terminal in Russias Far railway, Sovetskaya Gavan was proposed with OAO Russian Railways the possibility East.
The terminal would provide facilities as the location of the new port in view of of joint investment in modernisation of this for the unloading of incoming railway its proximity to Aricoms mining projects, section of BAM.
Upon reaching agreement carriages, temporary storage of ore, convenient access to BAM railway, and with OAO Russian Railways, Aricom will be and loading it onto sea transport for favourable hydrologic and meteorological ready to start design and exploration works further shipment to the global seaborne conditions.
in 2008, and later potentially to begin market China, Japan, South Korea, USA construction of the transhipment terminal.
30 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 3 31 1
