uk Board of Directors Pavel Maslovskiy Non-Executive Chairman Pavel was formerly Deputy Chairman of Peter Hambro Mining plc since 1994 and is Chairman of OJSC Pokrovskiy Rudnik.
Pavel was formerly assistant professor at Moscow State Aircraft Technology Institute.
Jay Hambro Chief Executive Officer Jay Hambro joined Aricom in July 2006.
Previously Jay was Director of Business Development at Peter Hambro Mining plc during Peter Hambro Mining plcs rapid evolution from junior exploration company to the second largest, and one of the lowest cost, gold producers in Russia.
Prior to joining Peter Hambro Mining, Jay was a manager of the Metals & Mining corporate finance team within HSBC Investment Bank.
Jay began his career in the resource finance team at NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd following a BSc in Business Management.
Jay is a non-executive director of Peter Hambro Mining plc.
Brian Egan Chief Financial Officer Brian Egan was appointed Finance Director in July 2007.
He was the Group Chief Financial Officer of Gloria-Jeans Corporation, a leading Russian apparel manufacturer and retailer and has over 15 years experience in senior financial roles.
He was previously VP of Finance of the EMEA Region Ingredients Division with Associated British Foods Plc, Financial Director of Georgia-Pacific Ireland Limited and Chief Financial Officer of Coca-Cola HBC Russia.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland.
Yuri Makarov Operations Director Yuri Makarov was appointed to the Aricom board in 2004.
Until this appointment, Yuri was the adviser to the Chairman of OJSC Pokrovsky Rudnik, a subsidiary of Peter Hambro Mining plc.
Prior to this, he was the Commercial Director of NT Computers in Moscow, Russia.
He has been actively involved in Aricoms development since its incorporation.
Yuri is a qualified systems engineer from the Moscow State Aircraft Technology Institute.
36 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 3 37 7 Business Review Martin Smith Technical Director Martin Smith joined Aricom in June 2006 as Technical Director with responsibility for overseeing all the technical aspects of Aricoms mine developments.
He has more than 25 years operational and corporate management experience across the global mining industry.
Having begun his career as a mining engineer at Anglo American Corporation, South Africa, Martin has led important projects mining coal, base and precious metals for some of the leading mining and exploration companies, including Kier International, Costain Mining and Shell International.
Sir Malcolm Field Senior Non-Executive Director Sir Malcolm Field was formerly CEO of WH Smith PLC and a non-executive director of Scottish and Newcastle, MEPC, The Stationery Office and Evolution Beeson Gregory and a number of private companies.
He was most recently Chairman of the CAA and Tube Lines Ltd. Sir Malcolm is the Senior Independent Director of Hochschild Mining PLC.
Peter Hambro Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Peter Hambro was a banker and then Deputy Managing Director of Mocatta and Goldsmid.
He founded Peter Hambro Ltd as a mining finance house in London.
He is, together with Pavel, one of the founding shareholders and a Director of Peter Hambro Mining plc.
Sir Roderic Lyne Non-Executive Director Sir Roderic Lyne was appointed to the Board in October 2006.
Sir Roderic served as British Ambassador to Russia from January 2000 until August 2004, when he retired from the Diplomatic Service after 34 years.
He now works as a consultant, principally advising businesses on Russia and the CIS.
He is an advisor to BP plc and to JPMorgan Chase, a non-executive director of Accor France, a member of the Board of the Russo-British Chamber of Commerce and of the Board of Governors of Kingston University.
A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 3 37 7 w ww ww w. a. a rr ic ic o o m m. p. p lc lc.
u. u kk Corporate Governance and Financial Statements All weather bridge Aricom has constructed over the River Kuranakh which separates the mining and processing areas 38 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 3 39 9 Corporate Governance Financial Statements 40 Financial Review 67 Consolidated Income Statement 43 Corporate Governance 68 Consolidated Statement of 47 Audit Committee Recognised Income and Expense Report 69 Consolidated Balance Sheet 49 Directors 70 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Remuneration Report 71 Notes to the Consolidated Financial 55 Directors Report Statements 64 Statement of Directors 111 Parent Company Financial Statements Responsibilities 120 Definitions and Glossary 65 I ndependent Auditors Report Corporate Governance and Financial Statements A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 3 39 9
