Because most new mobile phones need more than one microprocessor We are increasing ARMs value in every new mobile phone.
In 2007, two billion ARM technology-based chips were shipped in mobile phones thats an average of 1.7 per phone.
Since 2003, the ARM value per mobile phone has increased by nearly 50% and continues to rise as all phones become more and more sophisticated.
2 ARM Holdings plc A R E M A C Functionality Camera Text @ Browse www Music 1 2 3 Games 4 5 6 Headphones 7 8 9 0 GPS ARM Holdings plc 3 Because fewer than 25% of the worlds processors are in mobile phones And the growth in intelligent products is growing rapidly to meet consumer demand.
For consumer products to be easier to use, safer and more energy efficient, they need to become smarter.
Washing machines, airbags, televisions, toys, cameras, printers, etc.
all need advanced chips to make them smart.
Many of these products are already using ARM technology-based chips and we believe that this trend will be a source of future royalty revenue.
4 ARM Holdings plc A R E M A A R C E www 12 9 3 6 ARM Holdings plc 5 M A C Because we plan to grow our share of the chip We are recreating our successful processor business model in other aspects of chip design.
As the design of computer chips becomes more complex, semiconductor companies are looking to out-source more of their design work.
The next trend is for physical IP to be out-sourced.
ARM is well placed to provide advanced physical IP designs on the latest manufacturing processes.
6 ARM Holdings plc A R E M A C We design the blueprint of the We license the blueprint to our processor for our customers customers so their chips can be ARM technologyenabled Last year we received 83 million in processor license fees 1 Design 2 License to customer Embedded Software The Processor For years we have focused @ our expertise on the core of the chip www 4 Royalty income We receive a royalty payment 3 Product sales every time one of these Our customers sell ARM technologyproducts is sold.
Last year enabled chips to OEM who put them we received 88 million in into their products processor royalty fees Chip 2010 2015 2020 Physical IP 1 Design 2025 5 Ongoing growth Development Systems Tools Royalty Licensing Each processor design 16 million 27 million can have a life of 25 years so we receive 2 License to customer ongoing royalties 3 Product sales ARM Holdings plc 7
