Board of directors Doug Dunn, OBE, age 63 Warren East age 46 Tudor Brown age 49 Mike Muller age 49 Chairman Chief Executive officer Chief Operating officer Chief Technology officer Doug Dunn joined the board Warren East joined ARM Tudor Brown was one of the Mike Muller was one of the as an independent nonin 1994 to set up ARMs founders of ARM.
Before executive director in consulting business.
He was joining the Company, he was joining the Company, he was December 1998 and became Vice President, Business Principal Engineer at Acorn responsible for hardware non-executive Chairman Operations from February Computers, where he worked strategy and the development on 1 October 2006.
In October 2000 he was on the ARM R&D programme.
of portable products at Acorn previously President and appointed to the board as At ARM, he was Engineering Computers.
He was previously Chief Executive officer of ASM Chief Operating officer and in Director and Chief Technical at Orbis Computers.
At ARM Lithography Holding N. V. until October 2001 was appointed officer from 1993: in October he was VP, Marketing from his retirement in December Chief Executive officer.
Before joining ASML, joining ARM he was with Executive Vice President Business Development until he was Chairman and Chief Texas Instruments.
He is a EVP, Global Development October 2000 when he was Executive officer of the chartered engineer, Fellow of and in October 2001 he was appointed Chief Technology Consumer Electronics Division the Institution of Engineering appointed to the board as officer.
In October 2001, he of Royal Philips Electronics and Technology, Fellow Chief Operating officer.
He was appointed to the board.
N. V. and a member of the of the Royal Academy is a non-executive director board.
He was previously of Engineering and a of ANT plc.
Simon Segars age 40 Managing Director of the Companion of the Chartered General Manager Semiconductor divisions of Management Institute.
He Mike Inglis age 48 Physical IP Division Plessey and GEC and held is a non-executive director Executive Vice President, Simon Segars joined the board several engineering and of Reciva Limited and of Sales and Marketing in January 2005 and was management positions at fide La Rue plc.
Mike Inglis joined ARM as appointed General Manager Motorola.
He was awarded EVP, Marketing in June 2002 of the Physical IP Division an OBE in 1992.
He is a nonTim Score age 47 and was appointed to the in September 2007.
He has executive director of ST Chief Financial officer board in August that year.
previously been EVP, Microelectronics N. V. Soitec Tim Score joined ARM as Chief He became EVP, Sales Engineering, EVP, Worldwide S. A. LG.
Philips LCD Co. Ltd Financial officer and director and Marketing in January Sales and latterly EVP, and TomTom N. V. in March 2002.
Before joining ARM, Business Development.
He ARM, he was Finance Director he worked in management joined ARM in early 1991 and of Rebus Group Limited.
He consultancy with A. T. has worked on most of the was previously Group Finance Kearney and held a number ARM CPU products since then.
Director of William Baird plc, of senior operational and He led the development of the Group Controller at marketing positions at ARM7 and ARM9 Thumb LucasVarity plc and Group Motorola.
He holds a number Financial Controller at BTR plc.
worked in semiconductor of patents in the eld of He is a non-executive director sales, marketing, design embedded CPU architectures.
and Chairman of the Audit and consultancy with He is a non-executive director Committee of National Express Texas Instruments, Fairchild of Plastic Logic Limited.
and BIS Macintosh and gained his initial industrial experience with GEC Telecommunications.
He is a chartered engineer and a Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
22 ARM Holdings plc Lucio Lanza age 63 Kathleen ODonovan age 50 John Scarisbrick age 55 Young Sohn age 52 Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director director director director Lucio Lanza joined ARM as Kathleen ODonovan joined John Scarisbrick joined the Young Sohn joined the board a non-executive director in the board in December 2006. board in August 2001.
He has extensive December 2004 following She is a non-executive director CEO of CSR plc from June experience in the ARMs acquisition of Artisan.
and Chairman of the Audit 2004 until October 2007 and semiconductor industry both He was previously a director Committees of Prudential plc, previously worked for 25 years in Silicon Valley and in Asia.
of Artisan, from 1996, Great Portland Estates plc at Texas Instruments TI in He is CEO of Inphi Corporation, becoming Chairman in 1997. and Trinity Mirror plc and a variety of roles including a director of Cymer, Inc.
He is currently Managing Chairman of the Invensys as Senior Vice President and Audium Semiconductor Director of Lanza techVentures, Pension Scheme.
Previously responsible for TIs $5 billion Limited and an adviser to an early stage venture capital she was a non-executive ASP chip business, President Panorama Capital, a Silicon and investment rm, which director and Chairman of the of TI Europe and leader of the Valley based venture capital he founded in January Audit Committees of the Court team that created TIs DSP rm.
In 1990, he joined US of the Bank of England and business in Houston, Texas.
President of the semiconductor Venture Partners, a venture EMI Group plc and a nonBefore joining TI, he worked products group at Agilent capital rm, as a venture executive director of O2 plc.
in electronics systems design Technology, Inc. and partner and was a general Prior to that, she was Chief roles at Rank Radio Chairman of Oak Technology, partner.
From 1990 to 1995, Financial officer of BTR International and Marconi Inc.
Prior to that, he was he was an independent and Invensys and before Space and Defence Systems in President of the hard drive consultant to companies that she was a partner at the UK.
He is a non-executive business of Quantum in the semiconductor, Ernst & Young.
director of Intrinsity, Inc and Corporation and, before communications and Netronome Inc. that, Director of Marketing computer-aided design Philip Rowley age 55 at Intel Corporation.
industries, including Cadence Independent non-executive Jeremy Scudamore age 60 Design Systems, Inc. and, director Senior independent director from 1986 to 1989, was Chief Philip Rowley joined the board Jeremy Scudamore joined the Executive officer of EDA in January 2005.
He is also on Chairman and CEO of AOL Chief Executive officer of the board of directors of PDF Europe, the interactive Avecia Group formerly the Solutions, Inc. a provider services, web brands, internet specialty chemicals business of technologies to improve technologies and e-commerce of Zeneca until April 2006 semiconductor manufacturing provider until February 2007. and previously held senior yields.
He holds a doctorate He is a qualied chartered management positions both in electronic engineering accountant and was Group in the UK and overseas with from Politecnico of Milano.
Finance Director of Kingsher Zeneca and ICI.
Prior a board member of the to that, his roles included Chemical Industries Association Executive Vice President and is Chairman of Englands and Chief Financial officer North West Science Council.
He He was also a member of the is a non-executive director DTIs Innovation and Growth of HMV Group plc and Team for the Chemical Skinkers Limited.
Industry and Chairman of the Innovation Team.
He is non-executive Chairman of SkyePharma plc and Oxford Advanced Surfaces plc and a non executive director of Oxford Catalysts Group plc.
