Directors report UK reporting The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Principal activities and review of business The principal activities of the Group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors, physical IP and systems.
The nature of the global semiconductor industry is such that most of its business is conducted overseas and, to serve its customers better, the Group has sales ofces around the world.
These include six ofces in the US and ofces in Shanghai and Beijing, PR China: Shin-Yokohama, Japan: Seoul, South Korea: Taipei, Taiwan: Kfar Saba, Israel: Paris, France: Munich, Germany and Bangalore, India.
Design ofces are based in Cambridge, Maidenhead, Shefeld and Blackburn, UK: Sophia Antipolis and Grenoble, France: LeuvenHeverlee, Belgium: Aachen and Grasbrunn, Germany: Trondheim, Norway: Sentjernej, Slovenia: Austin, Texas, Olympia, Washington and Sunnyvale, California in the US and Bangalore, India.
More information about the business and key performance indicators are set out in the business review comprising the Chairmans statement on pages 9 and 10, the Chief Executive Ofcers review of operations on pages 11 to 13, and the financial review on pages 14 to 21.
Future developments The Groups stated objective is to establish a global standard for RISC architecture and physical IP for the embedded microprocessor market.
The directors believe that, in order to achieve this goal, it is important to expand the number and range of potential customers for its technology.
The Group intends to enter into licence agreements with new customers and to increase the range of new technology supplied to existing customers.
Relationships will continue to be established with third-party tools and software vendors to ensure that their products will operate with the ARM architecture.
As a result of its position as an emerging standard in its industry, the Group is presented with many opportunities to acquire complementary technology or resources and it intends to continue to make appropriate acquisitions from time to time.
Going concern After reviewing the 2008 budget and longer-term plans, the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of both the Group and the parent company.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend in respect of the year to 31 December 2007 of 1.2 pence per share which, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2008, will be paid on 21 May 2008 to shareholders on the register on 2 May 2008.
This final dividend, combined with the interim dividend of 0.8 pence per share paid during the year, makes a total of 2.0 pence per share for the year, an increase of 100% on the total dividend of 1.0 pence per share for 2006.
Share buyback programme In accordance with the rolling authority given by shareholders at the 2007 AGM, 94.5 million shares representing 7% of the issued share capital of 0.05 pence each were bought back by the Company in 2007 2006: 63.6 million shares at a total cost of 128.6 million 2006: 76.5 million.
In 2008 to date, 14.7 million shares representing 1.1% of the issued share capital were bought back at a cost of 13.0 million.
Research and development R&D R&D is of major importance and, as part of its research activities, the Group collaborates closely with universities worldwide and plans to continue its successful engagement with Michigan University.
Key areas of product development for 2008 include the development of further high-power, high-performance engines for both data and control applications such as ARM cores based on symmetric multiprocessor and superscalar technology.
The Group is investing in future physical IP development including low-power, low-leakage technologies for both bulk CMOS and silicon on insulator SOI processes to ensure leadership in this market.
In addition, the Group will deliver development tools, graphics processors and fabric IP to enable its customers to design and programme systems-on-chip SoCs.
The Group incurred R&D expenses of 84.0 million in 2007, representing 32.4% of revenues, compared with 84.9 million in 2006.
R&D expenses have been charged to the income statement since the requirements for capitalisation were not met.
The requirements for capitalisation are considered in more detail in note 1 on page 57.
Donations During the year the Group made donations for charitable purposes of 41,214 2006: 44,831.
The total amounts given for each such purpose were: Local Cambridge charities 10,331 Promotion of education 4,957 Wider understanding of science, maths and information technology 15,628 Medical research 6,015 Relief of poverty 2,603 Environmental protection and animal welfare 550 Other 1,130 ARM Holdings plc 33 Directors report UK reporting continued ARM employees are encouraged to offer their time and expertise to help charities and other groups in need.
The Group operates a gift matching system for employee fundraising.
The Group does not make any political donations.
Directors in the year The following served as directors of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2007: Doug Dunn OBE Chairman Warren East Chief Executive officer Tim Score Chief Financial officer Tudor Brown Chief Operating officer Mike Muller Chief Technology officer Mike Inglis Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing Simon Segars General Manager, Physical IP Division from September 2007 and previously Executive Vice President, Business Development Lucio Lanza independent non-executive director Kathleen ODonovan independent non-executive director Philip Rowley independent non-executive director and financial expert John Scarisbrick independent non-executive director Jeremy Scudamore senior independent non-executive director Young Sohn independent non-executive director appointed 2 April 2007 Peter Cawdron independent non-executive director resigned 15 May 2007 See pages 22 to 23 for the directors biographies.
Election and re-election of directors In accordance with Article 79 of the Groups articles of association, Doug Dunn, Tudor Brown, Mike Muller, Philip Rowley, John Scarisbrick, Jeremy Scudamore, Simon Segars and Tim Score will retire by rotation at the Companys Annual General Meeting and will seek re-election at that meeting.
Directors shareholdings in the Company The interests of the directors in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all of which were beneficially held, are disclosed in the remuneration report on page 41.
The additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the EU Takeovers Directive is set out below: Share capital As at 31 December 2007, ARMs share capital comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each and there were 1,344,055,696 ordinary shares in issue 2006: 1,389,907,834 of which 65,201,176 ordinary shares were held in treasury 2006: 49,500,000.
The rights attached to treasury shares are restricted in accordance with the Companies Acts.
The rights attached to ordinary shares are as follows: 1 On a show of hands at a general meeting, every shareholder present in person or, in the case of a corporation, present at the meeting by way of a representative and entitled to vote shall have one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution has one vote: 2 On a poll, every shareholder present in person or in the case of a corporation, present at the meeting by way of a representative or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held: 3 Shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes: and 4 Shareholders are entitled to participate in a return of capital on a winding-up.
The notice of the AGM species deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on ARMs website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in ARM other than: Restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, those relating to market abuse and insider dealing : Restrictions that may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority under which certain employees of ARM require the approval of the Company to deal in shares: Restrictions on the transfer of shares that may be imposed under article 61.2 of ARMs articles of association or under Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, in either case following a failure to supply information required to be disclosed following service of a request under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006: and Restrictions on transfer of shares held under certain of the Companys employee share plans while they remain subject to the plan.
34 ARM Holdings plc Substantial shareholdings The directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the issued share capital of the Company as at 21 March 2008: Percentage of issued ordinary share capital Janus Capital Corporation 13.37% Fidelity Investments 8.63% Thornburg Investment Management 7.57% Capital Group Companies 5.96% Invesco 5.23% Wellington Management Company 5.02% Legal and General Investment Management 4.01% Save for the above, the Company has not been notied, as at 21 March 2008, of any material interest of 3% or more or any non-material interest exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Appointment of directors ARM shareholders may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a director.
ARM must have not less than two and no more than 16 directors holding ofce at all times.
ARM may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary the minimum and or maximum number of directors.
At each AGM, any director who was elected or last re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the then current calendar year must retire by rotation.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election unless the directors have agreed otherwise.
The directors may appoint a director to ll a casual vacancy or as an additional director to hold ofce until the next AGM, who shall then be eligible for election.
Articles of association ARMs articles of association may be amended only by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the 2008 AGM, a special resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to ARMs existing articles of association in order to accommodate the provisions of the new Companies Act 2006 relating to directors conicts of interests.
For a more detailed explanation of the proposed amendments, see the Circular and Notice of AGM 2008.
Directors authority The directors are responsible for the management of the business of ARM and may exercise all powers of ARM subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the memorandum and articles of association.
At the 2007 AGM, the directors were given authority to buy back a maximum number of 133,361,000 ordinary shares at a minimum price of 0.05 pence each.
The maximum price was an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing mid market prices of ARMs ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the 2008 AGM or 15 August 2008.
Accordingly, resolution 14 will be proposed as a special resolution at the 2008 AGM to give ARM authority to acquire up to 127,208,000 ordinary shares following expiry of the current authority.
The directors will use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of ARM.
In particular, this authority will be exercised only if the directors believe that it is in the best interests of shareholders generally and will increase earnings per share.
The articles of association authorise the directors to allot up to 170,500 in nominal amount of ordinary shares.
Further, the directors have authority to allot ordinary shares for cash in connection with a Rights Issue as dened in the articles of association up to the aggregate nominal amount of 170,500 or, otherwise than in connection with a Rights Issue, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 25,500, in each case as if section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to such allotment.
The period of authorisation will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the 2009 AGM or 25 April 2009.
Change of control All of ARMs equity-based plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
There are no significant agreements to which ARM is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
ARM Holdings plc 35 Directors report UK reporting continued Disabled persons The Group has a strong demand for highly qualied staff and, as such, disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment or career development.
In the event of any staff becoming disabled while with the Group, their needs and abilities would be assessed and the Group would, where possible, seek to offer alternative employment to them if they were no longer able to continue in their current role.
Employee involvement As the Group is an IP enterprise, it is vital that all levels of staff are consulted and involved in its decision-making processes.
To this end, internal conferences and communications meetings are held regularly which involve employees from all parts of the Group in discussions on future strategy and developments.
Furthermore, employee share ownership is encouraged and all employees are able to participate in one of the Groups schemes to encourage share ownership.
The Group has an informal and delegated organisational structure.
It does not presently operate any collective agreements with any trade unions.
Policy on payment of creditors The Groups policy is to pay suppliers before the end of the month following the month of receipt of the invoice, unless terms have been specifically agreed in advance.
This policy and any specic terms agreed with suppliers are made known to the appropriate staff and to suppliers on request.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2007 were equivalent to ten days purchases for the Group 2006: nine days and nil days for the Company in both years.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management and policies and exposure to risks in relation to financial instruments are detailed in note 1c.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held at 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK, on 13 May 2008 at 2pm.
A presentation will be made at this meeting outlining recent developments in the business.
The Group will convey the results of proxy votes cast at the AGM.
Shareholders are invited to submit written questions in advance of the meeting.
Questions should be sent to The Company Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Group will be proposed at the AGM.
Details of other resolutions to be proposed at the meeting are set out in the Circular and Notice of AGM 2008 which will be made available to all shareholders together with a proxy card.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the Group and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements and the directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements, that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the Group and parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
36 ARM Holdings plc The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to auditors So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken in his or her duty as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the board Patricia Alsop Company Secretary ARM Holdings plc 37
