4 Q&A OUR STRATE Harriet Green joined Premier Farnell in April 2006 with over 20 years experience in global electronics distribution.
Here she talks to us about her first year as Chief Executive Officer in the environment of a leading, multi-channel, high service intermediary.
Harriet Green, Chief Executive Officer 4 PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT Q&A OUR STRATEGIC EVOLUTION AND ACCOUNTS 2007 5 GIC EVOLUTION Our strategy is not a one-off event but a journey, constantly moving us closer to where we want and need to be.
What do you see as the major I wanted to simplify our approach, do under-penetrated territories and strengths of the Premier Farnell fewer new projects but do them well.
market segments, such as the global Group?
Deliver the results and the efficiencies Electronic Design Engineer EDE sector, required of us, and meet the changing and through our web sales.
When I first joined Premier Farnell and needs of our customers and suppliers.
began to travel around the business and Our strategy is not a one-off event but We must grow profitably to deliver meet people I was struck by the strong a journey, constantly moving us closer the expectations of our shareholders, commitment to service excellence to where we want and need to be.
re-invest in the business and drive our everywhere I went.
People here do expansion plans.
There is so much We will focus on the fast growing EDE the essentials well they understand opportunity out there: these are community globally, who we serviced distribution and customers and so I exciting times.
brilliantly through the recent changes to wanted to make sure that, whatever RoHS Restriction of the use of certain the outcome of the strategic review, Q.
Is it true you involved over 150 Hazardous Substances legislation, we enhanced the customer experience employees in the strategic review?
meeting their needs and taking market without ever losing sight of the share.
In our business the devil is in the segment has distinctive needs for new ultimately leads to a customer.
detail so really understanding what products and technologies, quality works well and what needs to be We distribute millions of devices to support and information and easy improved was key to the long-term millions of customers our business is access to data from different channels.
We involved many to get the right goods to the right place of our experts from companies across We will, at the same time, concentrate at the right price at the right time.
From the Group and across the world not on our solid Maintenance, Repair and Shanghai to San Jos, this is the focus of only members of the management Operations MRO core customer base our activity and we do it well.
The insight we gained was and ensure we have the products and level of service is what our customers powerful.
We are also indebted to our services to meet the demands of need and expect and is the very customers, suppliers, global experts customers in that segment.
foundation of our business model.
in their fields and investors for their Our supplier offering was already I also found a strong, knowledgeable, valuable inputs, some of which feature strong and we have made some major committed team of employees and I later in this report.
With such high levels additions during 2006, such as Analog wanted to free them up to spend more of involvement and buy-in across our Devices, Cypress Semiconductor and time with customers and less time on teams we have been able to start the STMicroelectronics, to make our offering mindless processes that add no value.
implementation phase quickly and are really world class something our They are at the very heart of Premier making excellent progress.
Farnell and unleashing the power within Knowledgeable, committed, well trained the team and simplifying what we do We are also investing in the fast growing people at the heart of our business are will benefit our customers.
I have spent territories globally, where the opportunity key to our future success and I am a lot of time listening to them and their for growth is high and much of the driving organisational development to ideas who better to learn from than potential remains untapped.
China and ensure we have the simple, responsive the people who do the jobs every day?
Eastern Europe are two examples, but structure we need for the future.
We there are more and our plans are well have exciting plans to develop and grow Q.
Why did you conduct the strategic underway.
tomorrows business leaders from review?
within and become a truly high We have made significant investments It was very clear that the Group did performing team.
in our web interface to ensure that so many things well already but there we can offer customers best in class was also an opportunity to focus.
What are the major elements of speed, simplicity and ease of searching.
concentrate on our real strengths the review?
Customers want to access our products and direct our energy towards the In many respects the outcome through a variety of channels and it is opportunities in the global market that of the review is very simple to up to us to provide a true multi-channel could be addressed more effectively.
grow our business profitably, experience through the web, call centre, through internationalising our face to face, catalogue and direct model and expanding into new and marketing.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 6 Q&A Our Strategic Evolution continued Q.
Do you associate risk with the Q.
What makes the Electronic Design Q.
How much influence does RoHS China strategy?
Engineering customer segment legislation continue to have on your different?
We already have a business operation in Greater China employing over 100 Design Engineers need access to the The leadership position we have people with offices and a warehouse so latest products and technologies as established through RoHS has been we have experience in the market.
We soon as they become available.
They a strong driving influence on new do not try to enforce a standard Premier need a distributor who can offer the customer acquisition across the UK Farnell business model in new markets breadth of product and supplier offering and Europe, particularly within the EDE but internationalise and adapt our that we can, ensuring latest products segment where such support is critical.
offering to meet the particular needs are available from stock as soon as they The picture is similar in the USA for of each market.
The Chinese market are released, safe in the knowledge Newark, although the situation there is for small volume component sales is they can place orders at the end of more complex as there is no consistent already estimated at over 1 billion and their working day for delivery the next.
growing at over 11% per annum.
With They need a distributor who understands The Chinese government have made over 300,000 electronic engineers their needs and challenges and the RoHS compliance mandatory from graduating annually the opportunity absolute importance for them of cycle 1 March 2007 so we are doing everything for a high technology, high service times to market.
A supplier who can we can to help and support our Chinese distribution business is immense.
We quickly and easily meet their needs in customers through the transition.
The will concentrate our activities in three one transaction.
experience and knowledge we have areas and have logistics arrangements gained elsewhere in the world has in place to meet the complex challenges Q.
What do you mean by multi-channel?
been invaluable to us in this.
of the region, offering a faster service How will your online strategy fit with than is currently accessible to the this approach?
Will you now focus on future majority of customers.
We want to be able to support and environmental regulations?
We will shortly be launching our service our customers in whatever way We are taking all environmental catalogue, fully translated into simplified works best for themvia the web, call legislation very seriously and have Chinese, and featuring 35,000 RoHS centres, through our field sales teams, many experts across our business compliant products, with significant marketing materials and catalogues.
who understand the requirements of stock available within the region Thats what we mean by multi-channel, the latest Waste Electrical & Electronic from launch.
In addition we will offer the complete end to end customer Equipment WEEE legislation and other customers a fully transactional web site, experience.
new initiatives so that we can support also in Chinese, giving access to an Driving web enhancements is key to our customers to the very best of extended range of over 100,000 this approach responding to customer our ability.
products, a world-class search capability needs and offering a more flexible cost and extensive product information.
We also take these matters very to serve.
These services will be supported by our seriously ourselves: we have a newly implemented core transaction commitment to reducing our own system, in Chinese and our carbon footprint and are constantly knowledgeable local teams.
looking for ways to improve our own efforts in this area.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT Q&A OUR STRATEGIC EVOLUTION AND ACCOUNTS 2007 7 We want to be able to support and service our customers in whatever way works best for themvia the web, call centres, through our eld sales teams, marketing materials and catalogues.
Thats what we mean by multi-channel, the complete end to end customer experience.
Why did you drop the name InOne?
What feedback have you had from School shows that the most successful your customers and suppliers to the As our business evolves so must our name organisations, those which delight their strategy?
We felt the simplicity of the customers, retain their talent and individual company names was powerful Very encouraging our customers are consistently deliver shareholder value and these brands carry equity in their own clear what they want: have four primary things in common: right, encapsulating as they do our strong Fast, accurate, responsive service reputation for outstanding service, Clear, well understood strategy product selection and responsiveness Access to a broad range of products Flawlessly executed to customer needs.
from a world-class range of industry High performance culture leading suppliers Q.
How will you measure the success Simple organisational structure Easy to use web pages and catalogues of the review?
We already have the strategy in place Well trained staff who understand We will use Key Performance Indicators and we are making good progress in their requirements and know how KPIs for the period to monitor our its implementation.
to meet them success and progress very closely, as well as the reaction from customers, We are constantly working to simplify Excellent logistics suppliers and investors.
We have a our organisational structure, ensuring Suppliers want distributor partners strong year of performance behind us high levels of accountability and a who can offer quality information, with consistent growth and improvement management team that is close to the online, by phone and on paper, who and this is a powerful start point for us customer and close to the detail of what can service their customers needs to really drive forward.
and can seed their new products and I believe our results will speak for High performance is an attitude of technologies quickly into the market.
mind, a culture, and we have already We have had a lot of feedback and commenced some powerful work to Our KPIs are outlined on page 19. support from our supplier community drive this forward.
who are not geared up to meet the low As I said previously, this is a journey, an We will continue to recruit fresh talent volume, high service needs of these evolution.
The first steps of our journey into the organisation to complement the customers but who recognise they are have begun with a clear strategy which team already in place, bringing fresh absolutely critical to their success and we must now execute flawlessly.
We will ideas and constantly raising the bar.
focus on what differentiates us and our proposition in the market.
The best plan I am always mindful of this quote from We have included some customer and in the world will fail without focus and John F Kennedy Change is the law of supplier interviews on pages 17 to 19 and excellent implementation.
And those who look only to the past 22 to 23 which are quite typical of the or present are certain to miss the future.
inputs that we have received.
It is our job to anticipate the evolving needs of our customers and suppliers and deliver appropriate solutions.
Finally, how do you view the coming year?
I am excited and encouraged by the opportunities that face us, the feedback from the market so far, the simplicity of the plans, and the absolute commitment of the Premier Farnell team to make it happen.
All in all, a powerful combination as we drive daily for higher performance.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
