40 DIRECTORS REPORT The transaction is expected to complete These indemnities constitute qualifying Principal activities and by not later than 16 April 2007, following third party indemnities for the purposes business review a period of consultation with the of the Companies Act 1985 and remain A detailed review of the Groups employees of BuckHickman.
in force at the date of approval of this activities, the development of its report.
Further details are given in note 29 to business and an indication of likely the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Additional information relating to future developments are dealt with on Directors remuneration, service pages 14 to 33. contracts and interests in the Companys Share capital The principal activity of the Group shares is given in the Remuneration Details of changes in the issued, remains unchanged and is the Report on pages 42 to 48.
The details ordinary share capital of the Company distribution of electronic, electrical and of Directors interests in the Companys during the year are set out in note 20 to industrial products to the design, shares form part of this report.
At the forthcoming Annual General Financial instruments Meeting, the Company will be seeking Profit and dividends Information on the Groups financial risk authority to purchase its ordinary and The Groups operating profit for the management objectives and policies and preference shares.
Authorities were financial year from continuing on the exposure of the Group to relevant previously granted at the Annual operations was 82.3 million risks in respect of financial instruments General Meeting in 2006, but expire at 2006: 58.2 million after charging is set out under the heading Treasury the close of the forthcoming meeting.
6.6 million for obsolete and slow operations on page 25 and in note 19 to During the year under review the moving inventory as a result of the RoHS the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Company purchased 565,000 of its legislation, 3.9 million relating to the cumulative redeemable preference restructuring of the BuckHickman Supplier payment policy shares in the market for a total business and 1.4 million relating to consideration of 8.4 million.
All shares the Groups redundancy programme.
The Groups operating companies are purchased were then cancelled.
The Excluding one off charges, the prior year responsible for agreeing terms and purchases are considered to be operating profit was 70.1 million.
The conditions under which business beneficial to the ongoing earnings Groups profit for the financial year transactions with their suppliers are and cash flow profile of the Group.
attributable to ordinary shareholders conducted.
Payments to suppliers are was 52.4 million 2006: 31.1 million.
made in accordance with those terms, Directors provided that suppliers also comply The Directors recommend that a final with all relevant terms and conditions.
The names and biographical details of dividend of 5.0 pence 2006: 5.0 pence At 28 January 2007, the amount the the Directors who held office at the date per ordinary share be paid on 20 June Group owed its suppliers represented of this report appear on pages 34 and 35.
2007 to those shareholders on the 31 working days purchases Andrew Fisher resigned on 16 May 2006 register of members at the close of 2006: 35 working days.
The Company and Michael Lester retired from the business on 25 May 2007.
An interim is a holding company and does not Board on 13 June 2006.
Harriet Green dividend of 4.0 pence per ordinary have any trade creditors.
was appointed Chief Executive Officer of share was paid on 18 October 2006, the Company and to its Board on 3 April making a total for the year of 9.0 pence 2006.
Andrew Dougal and Mark Product research and 2006: 9.0 pence per ordinary share.
development Whiteling were both appointed to the Board on 1 September 2006.
The Groups product research and Disposals In accordance with the Companys development activities are restricted to On 31 July 2006 the Group sold its Kent Articles of Association, Laurence Bain the development of new or enhanced business, part of the Industrial Products will retire at the forthcoming Annual products for Akron Brass and are not Division, to Barnes Group Inc. for a cash General Meeting of the Company and significant in the context of the Group as consideration, net of costs, of offer himself for re-election.
Akron Brass is part of the 20.9 million.
The pre-tax profit on evaluation process having been carried Groups Industrial Products Division.
Kent is a out during the course of the year in specialist automotive consumables respect of Laurence, his performance Charitable and political donations business with sales of 40.5 million and continues to be effective and he an operating profit of 2.1 million in the In the US, the Group has an ongoing continues to demonstrate commitment financial year ended 29 January 2006. policy of donating certain items of stock to his role.
In addition, Further details of the disposal are given Andrew Dougal and Mark Whiteling, who, during the year the Group made in note 23 to the Consolidated Financial as noted above, were appointed during charitable donations in cash of 41,000.
the year, will retire and offer themselves Further details of the Groups charitable for election at the forthcoming Annual activities appear in the Corporate Social Post balance sheet events General Meeting.
Andrew Dougal is a Responsibility Report on page 33.
Non-Executive Director and does not On 21 March 2007 the Company The Group continues its policy of not have a service contract.
Mark Whiteling announced that it had entered into making contributions to political parties.
is an Executive Director of the Company an agreement with The BSS Group plc and has a service contract with the to sell to it the business and assets Company, further details of which are Employment comprising BuckHickman for a total set out in the Remuneration Report on consideration of approximately The Group places great emphasis on pages 42 to 48.
27 million on a cash and debt free optimising the contribution made by During the financial year ended basis.
BuckHickman is a leading UK employees at all levels around the world.
distributor of industrial tools and 28 January 2007 the Company provided A Group-wide Performance Review and indemnities to each of its Directors in supplies and part of the Groups annual Management Audit process are Marketing and Distribution Division in accordance with the provisions of the in their eighth year of operation.
The Companys Articles of Association Europe and Asia Pacific.
For the year Group continues to invest in the ended 28 January 2007, BuckHickman providing for the indemnification of development of its employees.
During reported sales of 99.8 million and an Directors out of the assets of the the year a range of management skills operating loss of 0.8 million.
Company to the extent permitted by law.
programmes were deployed covering PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
