8 INTERNATIONALISING 8 OUR MODEL ASIA PACIFIC over 100 people.
This is an exciting EUROPE milestone in the delivery of Premier The Group currently trades as Farnell in In Europe the Groups predominant Farnells strategy in a rapid growth Australia and New Zealand and Farnell operation is Farnell headquartered in the market.
Newark across Singapore, Malaysia and UK but with operations in all significant Hong Kong, bringing customers access The Indian market continues to grow, European markets with a real focus on to the full product ranges of both Farnell particularly for electronic design the European EDE customer base coupled and Newark.
engineers, as many organisations move with a thorough understanding of the their design centres there and Premier needs of its MRO customers.
A leader in Asia is the fastest growing market for Farnells focus on the region will the European high service, small order electronics, with a rapidly emerging continue and develop.
environment offering true multi-channel design engineering market segment distribution, Farnell has seen double digit desperately in need of the products, growth in significant Mainland European services and knowledge the Group markets over the last year, with an is able to offer.
As the Group focuses increasing proportion of its business on internationalising its high service being transacted over the web.
With proposition, China has been a critically distribution Centres in UK and Mainland important area of focus and significant Europe, the business can offer superior investment has been made in the logistics, next day delivery and market existing operation to offer a truly unique leading knowledge of RoHS compliance market proposition in the form of issues with a stock profile to match.
A line Premier Electronics, launched 2 April card second to none ensures continuing 2007, with a fully transactional web site growth in the customer base.
in Chinese, a local language catalogue of RoHS compliant products, two Farnell continues to invest in the distribution centres, over 18,000 SKUs, under-penetrated markets of Europe three offices with two more planned and whilst also internationalising its model PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGIC FOCUS AND ACCOUNTS 2007 9 Our business is truly international and each market is different in its own way.
We recognise these differences and internationalise our model to meet the local needs.
Our current focus areas to grow our customer base are China and those markets in Continental Europe where, historically, we have had relatively low market share.
We expect to add 100,000 new customers to our existing base.
to fit the local needs of the new and THE AMERICAS MCM, based in Ohio, is a leading emerging markets of Eastern Europe distributor of replacement parts, We have five separate business a focus area for the Group.
components and accessories for operations in the USA as we look to electronic equipment including CPC is a leading business-to-business constantly build our strong business computer hardware and peripherals, distributor of electrical and related position across the different market security and surveillance systems, products with over 40 years experience sectors in which we operate.
home theatre home automation, tools, serving a large and diverse UK customer Newark, our leading supplier of test equipment, wire and cable and base.
Its primary aim is to provide electronic and MRO products in the much more with a sophisticated customers with an outstanding product US and Canadian markets, with over approach to web sales and an ever range combined with exceptional value 70 years of expertise, offers unique expanding customer base.
for money all delivered by a reliable, eProcurement solutions and a branch efficient and friendly service.
CPC stock Our Industrial Products Division, network to ensure local knowledge and over 100,000 products from over 1,200 comprising Akron Brass, TPC Wire & service are always available.
Building on leading manufacturers, adding over Cable and Cadillac Electric, all strong a strong MRO core, the Newark team, 10,000 new lines every year and brands, serve the steel, automotive headquartered in Chicago, are adding constantly enlarging their customer and fire industries.
With an established exciting new suppliers to their range to base through web and direct mail base in the home US market their spearhead their increased focus on the campaigns, ensuring their expanding international reputation and sales American EDE customers.
Newark also call centre is never quiet.
are building as they continue to grow has businesses in Mexico and Brazil, and develop.
On 21 March 2007, the Company affording us significant opportunity for announced that it had entered into growth in these rapidly developing an agreement to sell the BuckHickman markets.
business to the BSS Group and the transaction is expected to complete in April 2007.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
