10 TARGETING ELECTRONIC DESIGN ENGINEERS GLOBALLY The global Electronic Design Engineering EDE market is part of a market estimated to be worth 13 billion and growing at 68% per annum.
The product and service needs of this customer segment are unique and the Group has developed a powerful proposition to support these customers and their needs.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGIC FOCUS AND ACCOUNTS 2007 11 10 Focus on EDE The leadership position we developed through RoHS and our detailed The global EDE market is expanding understanding of the issues and rapidly and our thorough research has challenges faced by todays design shown that customers in this sector have engineer have helped us further similar service needs and requirements strengthen our offering in this area.
Our state of the art web platforms offer With the global EDE market being part easy and fast access to high quality and of a market estimated at over 13 billion extensive data and information.
This is and growing, the opportunity is significant an important channel for this customer and we will work to secure a market segment.
As part of our plans to improve the EDE customers want access to the latest proposition to our EDE customers, technologies and products as soon as we plan to add approximately 70,000 they become available and Premier products to our current stocked range Farnell, as a high service distributor with of approximately 300,000 over the next a very broad, and leading edge supplier three years, with a further 500,000 base, is well placed to support them with lines to be available on demand.
our breadth of stock, next day delivery We constantly re-evaluate our stock and advanced logistics capabilities.
position to reflect the needs of our Time to market of their end product is customers and our marketing and absolutely critical to EDE customers so information will target customers early access to data and good product working on design projects.
We will continue to improve and We continue to expand our supplier differentiate our service for this unique portfolio to have the right mix of niche, group and work to give them an ever specialist and broadline franchises to richer experience of Premier Farnell.
offer the engineer a one stop shop for all their needs.
Our suppliers are looking for us to seed their products and technologies into these early design phases of a project and give us high levels of support to do so.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
