23 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Senior management The senior management of 4.
Bob Spooner, Aged 53 Premier Foods consists of the Group Procurement Director Group Operations Director Operations Board.
Appointed to the Premier Foods Joined Premier Foods as Group Operations Board in March 2007 Operations Director in April 2007.
Howard Beveridge, Aged 47 following the Companys acquisition also a member of the Groups Operations Commercial Director of RHM, where he was Group Board.
Prior to joining Premier Foods, Joined the Group in 2002 as Procurement and Logistics Director.
Mr Spooner was with Northern Foods plc Group Marketing Director before He joined RHM in 2003 as Divisional as Group Supply Chain Director and becoming Commercial Director in Services Director Bread Bakeries Managing Director for their pastry 2004.
Prior to this, he held senior and became a member of the Bread products business.
He has previously held marketing roles at Barclaycard, Bakeries Division Executive in 2004. roles with ICI Paints as European Supply BUPA Hospitals and with a number Mr Hughes previously held a number Chain Director and Managing Director of of manufacturing companies of senior positions with ABF plc and the UK and Ireland Paint business and including Tube Investments, Archer Daniels Midland UK.
Commercial Director and Supply Chain Cadbury Schweppes and Director for Sara Lees UK Household and United Biscuits.
Tim Kelly, Aged 50 Personal Care business.
Stephen Bolton, Aged 43 Appointed to the Premier Foods 8.
Suzanne Wise, Aged 46 Commercial Director Operations Board in March 2007 General Counsel & Company Secretary Joined the Group in 2002 as following the Companys acquisition of Joined the Group as General Counsel Commercial Director.
Prior to this, Mr RHM, where he was Chief Operating and Company Secretary in January 2008.
Bolton served as Marketing Director Officer, Cakes and Customer She is also a member of the Groups at Jeyes UK Ltd. His early marketing Partnerships.
Ms Wise is a qualified and commercial management he assumed additional responsibility Solicitor and was admitted to practice in career included periods with Philips, for the Groups Bread & Milling 1987.
Prior to joining Premier, she was Sara Lee and Addis Housewares.
He originally joined RHM with Gallaher Group plc where she held as Chief Operating Officer of the a number of senior positions in the legal 3.
Brian Carlton, Aged 51 Customer Solutions Division in function before being appointed as the Group HR Director August 2003.
Prior to that he was with Group Head of Legal.
Prior to her career Joined the business in 1994 as Head Constellation Brands where he was at Gallaher she was a solicitor in private of Personnel for the Canned Foods Chief Operating Officer, International.
Ms Wise is a graduate from Division.
His responsibilities have He previously held senior marketing University of East Anglia.
since been extended to embrace all roles at Diageo and Coca-Cola HR activities across the Group.
Ian York, Aged 48 was appointed to the Operations Group Sales Director Board in October 2006.
Robert Lawson, Aged 42 Joined the Group in 1994 as General Sales Premier, Mr Carlton held HR and Commercial Director Manager for the Canned Foods division.
Operational roles in Chrysler UK, Joined Premier in January 2005 as He now has responsibility for all UK sales K Shoes, Metal Box and Smurfit Director of Mergers and Acquisitions activities throughout the business having Packaging.
He is a graduate in and Investor Relations and joined the been appointed Group Sales Director in Business Studies from Glasgow Operations Board in October 2006.
Previously, Mr York held a variety College of Technology.
His responsibilities now include the of positions in the UK grocery market management of the integration of with Quaker Oats Ltd, Associated British Premier and RHM.
Prior to joining Foods and Blue Crest.
Premier Foods Mr Lawson was Strategy Director at both Kraft Foods Europe and United Biscuits and was a management consultant at Arthur D Little.
Mr Lawson has a BA from Oxford University and an MBA from INSEAD.
From left to right: Robert Lawson, Robert Schofield, Bob Spooner, Ian York, Suzanne Wise, Brian Carlton, Mark Rigby Business Development Chef, Stephen Bolton, Mark Hughes, Howard Beveridge, Tim Kelly and Paul Thomas.
