26 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Directors report The directors have pleasure in presenting the report and Directors responsibilities audited financial statements of Premier Foods plc and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2007. report, Directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law Principal activities and regulations.
Premier Foods plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales, registered number Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts 5160050, with its registered office at Premier House, for each financial year which give a true and fair view of Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way, St Albans, the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the Hertfordshire AL1 2RE.
end of the year, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors Details of its principal activities can be found on page 12. are required to: Business review select suitable accounting policies and then apply The Chairmans statement on pages 6 to 9, the Chief them consistently: Executives summary on pages 10 to 11, the Business make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and Financial reviews on pages 12 to 21 and the report and prudent: on Corporate Governance on pages 29 to 38 provide a state that the consolidated financial statements review of the business during the year and descriptions comply with International Financial Reporting of possible future developments and the principal risks Standards, and the Parent Company Financial and uncertainties facing the Group, and form part of this Statements comply with UK GAAP: Directors Report.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures Financial statements disclosed and explained in the accounts: and The audited financial statements are presented on prepare the accounts on the going concern basis pages 52 to 99. unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
Profit and dividends The loss on ordinary activities before tax for the year The directors are responsible for keeping proper ended 31 December 2007 was 73.5m 2006: restated accounting records which disclose with reasonable profit of 59m.
The directors are recommending accuracy at any time the financial position of the a final dividend of 2.2 pence per share for the year ended Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that 31 December 2007.
Subject to shareholders approval, the accounts comply with the relevant provisions of the the final dividend will be paid on 4 July 2008 to members Companies Acts 1985 to 2006.
They are also responsible on the register as at 6 June 2008. for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention of fraud Research and development and other irregularities.
Applied research and development work continues to be directed towards the introduction of new and improved The directors of the Group have taken all the steps that products, the application of new technology to reduce they ought to have taken as directors in order to make unit and operating cost and to improve service to themselves aware of any information needed by the customers.
Research and development costs of 4.2m Groups auditors in connection with preparing their were incurred in continuing operations during the year.
report and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information and so far as the directors are aware Land and buildings there is no such information of which the Groups The directors are of the opinion that there is no auditors are unaware.
The directors are responsible significant difference between the book and market for maintaining the integrity of financial information value of the land and buildings of the Group.
which includes the Annual Report, together with other financial statements, presentations and Donations announcements on the Groups website No donations were made to political parties 2006: nil.
Legislation in the UK Information on charitable donations can be found on concerning the preparation and dissemination of page 38. financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors The present directors of the Company are listed on page Directors indemnities 29 of the corporate governance report.
On 10 May 2007 Article 225 of the Companys Articles of Association Ian Ramsay resigned as a director of the Company and provides that, to the extent permitted by law, every on 21 January 2008, David Beever and Christine Cross director is entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of were appointed as directors of the Company.
the Company against all costs and liabilities incurred by him in the execution of his duties or the exercise of his Details of the interests in the share capital of the powers or otherwise in connection with his duties, Company of the directors in office as at 31 December powers or office including any liability incurred by him 2007 are set out on page 45 of the Directors in defending any proceedings, civil or criminal, which Remuneration Report.
relate to anything done or omitted to have been done or omitted by him as an officer of the Company and in which judgement is given in his favour or in which he is acquitted.
27 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Substantial shareholdings The powers of the directors are determined by UK As at 3 March 2008, the Company has been notified, legislation and the Memorandum and Articles of in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Association of the Company in force from time to time.
Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority, The Companys shareholders approved a resolution of the following interests in the ordinary shares of at the 2007 AGM for the directors to allot relevant the Company: securities as defined in the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,813,418.
This Number of % of issued authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2008 AGM.
ordinary shares share capital A further authority to allot relevant securities will be as at date of as at Notification received from: original disclosure 3 March 2008 sought at the 2008 AGM.
At the AGM in 2008 Aberdeen Asset shareholders will also be requested to authorise the Management Plc 103,762,374 12.29% directors to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
Capital Group 60,539,929 7.17% Any ordinary shares so purchased may be cancelled or Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC 50,910,683 6.03% held in treasury.
Newton Investment Management Limited 44,927,811 5.32% Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved JPMorgan Asset Management 24,800,618 2.94% by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in Barclays Global Investors 18,291,039 2.17% force from time to time.
Share capital and control As disclosed in note 33 of the financial statements, The following additional information is given pursuant to following the year end the Company has amended its section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
Term and Revolving facilities and negotiated a further short-term facility.
Under the terms of the Supplemental As at 31 December 2007, the Companys authorised Agreement dated 28 February 2008, the Working Capital share capital was 15,000,000 divided into 1,500,000,000 Credit Facility dated 31 January 2008 and the Revolving ordinary shares of 1 pence each nominal value ordinary Credit Facilities Agreement dated 28 February 2008, in shares.
On 31 December 2007 there were 844,600,074 the event of a change of control, the Company is required ordinary shares in issue.
The ordinary shares are listed to give notification to the facility agent and if so required on the London Stock Exchange.
by the majority lenders the facilities may be cancelled.
In addition under a Receivables Purchasing Agreement All of the ordinary shares rank equally with respect to dated 30 December 2007 in the event of a change of voting rights and the rights to receive dividends.
control the agreement may be terminated.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the The Company does not have agreements with any Companys reports and accounts: to attend and speak at director or employee that would provide compensation General Meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies for loss of office or employment resulting from a and to exercise voting rights.
takeover except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on granted to employees under such schemes and plans the holding of any class of shares and no requirements to vest on a takeover.
for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of Employment policies the Company.
A summary of the Groups employment policies and the actions to involve employees is set out in the corporate There are no known arrangements under which responsibility section of the Corporate Governance financial rights are held by a person other than the report on pages 37 and 38. holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Creditor payment policy Premier Foods plc is a holding company and had no Shares acquired through Company share schemes and amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 December 2007 plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have 2006 : nil.
The Groups creditor days outstanding no special rights.
at 31 December 2007 were 70 days 2006: 51 days of purchases, based on the ratio of Group trade creditors The rules about the appointment and replacement of at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the directors are contained in the Companys Articles of year by trade creditors.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A The Group has a variety of payment terms with director appointed by the Board holds office only until suppliers.
Payment terms for purchases under major the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
At each AGM contracts are agreed as per the contract negotiations.
one third of the directors will retire by rotation and be eligible for re-election.
The directors to retire will be Financial instruments those who wish to retire and those who have been The financial risk management objectives and policies longest in office since their last appointment or of the Group, and its exposure to price, credit, liquidity reappointment, with the proviso that all must retire and cash-flow risk are set out in note 21 to the financial within a three year period.
28 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Directors report Related party disclosure Annual General Meeting business Following a technical issue that arose in respect of the The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December held at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London 2006 paid to shareholders on 23 February 2007 of EC1A 9HQ on 16 May 2008 at 11.00am.
In addition to the 27.3m 5.5 pence per ordinary share and in respect usual business to be conducted at this years AGM we of the final dividend for the year ended 31 December are asking shareholders to approve a number of 2006 paid to shareholders on 6 July 2007 of 21.5m amendments to our articles of association, primarily 2.55 pence per ordinary share together the Dividends, to bring the Companys Articles of Association in line an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM was held on with the Companies Act 2006.
As part of this process 17 December 2007 to approve various actions to rectify the Company is seeking the right to use electronic and ratify payment of the Dividends, which were means as the default method of communicating with technically paid in breach of the Companies Act 1985. its shareholders, for example by using the website Following approval by shareholders at that EGM, the for delivery of the Annual report and accounts.
"Company entered into a deed of release the ""Deed"" in Shareholders will be given the opportunity to elect to favour of the Company's directors releasing them from receive a hard copy, rather than receive it by default."
any and all claims which the Company may have against It is proposed to make further revisions to the New them as a result of the payment of the Dividends.
The Articles with effect on and from 1 October 2008 to execution of the Deed by the Company in favour of the cater for changes being introduced by the 2006 Act directors of the Company constitutes a related party relating to directors' conflicts of interest.
transaction under the provisions of the Listing Rules.
The relevant provisions of the Listing Rules were The Notice convening the AGM will be issued separately, complied with in notifying this transaction to the FSA.
together with details of the business to be considered, The value of this arrangement is not ascertainable as and full explanations of each resolution that is being the transaction concerns the release of liability for proposed.
An explanation of the main changes between future claims which may or may not ever be made, the proposed and the existing articles of association is and no monetary payments were made either by or set out in the appendix to the Notice.
to the directors in connection with the Deed.
By order of the Board Post balance sheet events On 29 February 2008, the Group amended its Term and Revolving credit facilities by agreement with its lending banks to provide greater covenant headroom for the remainder of its financing period.
Further details are set out in note 33 to the financial statements on page 95.
Suzanne Wise General Counsel & Company Secretary Independent Auditors Premier Foods plc  LLP has indicated its Premier House willingness to continue as auditors: accordingly a Centrium Business Park resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the Griffiths Way forthcoming AGM in accordance with section 385 St Albans of the Companies Act 1985.
The reappointment of Hertfordshire  LLP has been approved by AL1 2RE the Audit Committee, who will also be responsible for determining their audit fee on behalf of the directors.
Registered in England and Wales No.
5160050 Going concern 3 March 2008 The directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
