22 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Board of Directors Executive Directors 4.
Robert Schofield, Aged 56 Senior independent director Non-executive director Joined the Group on flotation in Joined the Group on flotation in Chief Executive Officer 2004 and was appointed senior 2004.
She is a non-executive director Joined the Group in 2001 taking responsibility for its branded independent director in 2004.
He is of AH Acquisitions BV.
He was appointed Chief currently Chairman of Product of the was formerly Senior Vice President Y ear Ltd, Leckford Estate Ltd and a responsible for the Petcare strategic Executive Officer in January 2002. non-executive director of Dairy Farmers business unit at Nestl SA in Robert Schofield has extensive manufacturing and operational of Britain.
Prior to this Mr Felwick was Switzerland and prior to this worked experience gained at United Biscuits Deputy Chairman of the John Lewis for Mars Incorporated and a number Partnership, Managing Director of of its subsidiaries in the United States, plc where he ultimately served Waitrose and also Chairman of the the United Kingdom and Switzerland.
as Managing Director of United Biscuits UK, directing both the British Retail Consortium.
Her previous appointments include McVities and KP Foods businesses.
David Beever, Aged 67 Holdings plc, Safeway plc and a Non-executive director trustee of the Society of Genealogists.
Paul Thomas, Aged 52 Group Finance Director Mr Beever was appointed to the Joined the Group in 2002 as Group Board in January 2008.
Ian McHoul, Aged 48 executive director of JJB Sports plc, Non-executive director Finance Director.
Prior to this he Volex Group plc and The Paragon Joined the Group on flotation in served as Finance Director of Coors Brewers formerly Bass Brewers.
He was 2004 and is currently the Group Previously, he was the Director previously Chairman of London Finance Director of Scottish & and Continental Railways Ltd and Newcastle plc.
He was previously the of Planning and Business KPMG Corporate Finance and a Vice Finance and Strategy Director of the Development in the retail division of Grand Metropolitan plc.
Chairman of SG Warburg & Co Ltd. Inntrepreneur Pub Company Limited He is a Chartered Accountant.
and prior to that he spent 10 years 6.
Christine Cross, Aged 56 with Courage Limited and its parent Non-executive director company Fosters Brewing Group in Non-executive Directors 3.
David Kappler, Aged 60 Mrs Cross was appointed to the a variety of roles.
Mr McHoul is a Chairman Board in January 2008, she is an Chartered Accountant.
independent advisor in retail Joined the Group on flotation in 2004 management having previously 9.
Louise Makin, Aged 47 as Chairman and is also currently senior independent director and spent 14 years at Tesco plc in a Non-executive director Audit Committee Chairman at both number of senior management Dr Makin, who was appointed to the roles including Group Business Board in October 2006, is currently Shire plc and Intercontinental Hotels Development Director.
Prior to this Chief Executive Officer of BTG plc, Group plc.
Mr Kappler was Finance Director of Cadbury Schweppes plc she lectured at Edinburgh and Bath a growing life sciences company for nine years until his retirement in Universities.
Mrs Cross is currently focused on the development and a non-executive director of Next plc commercialisation of speciality 2004.
He was also a non-executive and Sobeys Inc Canada as well as pharmaceuticals.
Dr Makins director and latterly Chairman of HMV plc until 2006.
Mr Kappler is a Retail Advisor to Apax Partners previous roles include President, Chartered Management Accountant.
Venture Capital and Private Equity.
Biopharmaceuticals Europe of Baxter Healthcare, and a variety of Sales, Marketing and Business Leadership roles at Baxter, ICI and English China Clays.
Dr Makin holds an MA in Natural Sciences and a PhD in Metallurgy from the University of Cambridge, and an MBA.
From left to right: David Beever, Ian McHoul, Sharon Hintze, Robert Schofield, David Kappler, Louise Makin, David Felwick, Christine Cross and Paul Thomas.
