07 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 The acquisitions of RHM and Campbells were Organic development driven by a clear strategic rationale, both to I am delighted to report that our sales continue strengthen Premiers branded portfolio and to grow and, after a slow first half, we have seen to create a highly cost efficient UK and Irish sales growth improve during the second half business.
The integration of both businesses of 2007.
Full year, pro forma sales, have grown has continued to move forward at pace.
by 1.4%, with a second half increase of 3.0%.
Campbells and the Culinary Brands division of RHM have been fully integrated, as have We have restructured the business into three all the Irish businesses.
With regard to the divisions based around a combination of rationalisation of the manufacturing network, commonality of supply chain and category the Kings Lynn ex Campbells and Coolock similarities.
The Grocery division comprises ex Chivers Ireland factories closed in the original Premier business with the December 2007 and we have completed exception of the Meat-free business, the consultation with employees at the 7 other Campbells business, RHMs Culinary Brands manufacturing sites that are due to close and division, Ledbury Preserves from RHMs the transfer of production has commenced.
Customer Partnerships division and Manor Bakeries from the RHM Cakes division.
We remain on track to achieve the forecast The Bread & Milling division comprises 113m of annual cost synergies arising from the RHM Bread Bakeries division and the the integration of both acquisitions with an Chilled & Ireland division comprises the annual run rate as we enter 2008 of 47m.
RF Brookes and Charnwood chilled foods and These delivered the planned 17m of pizza base businesses from RHMs Customer incremental Trading profit in 2007.
Partnerships division, Avana Bakeries from RHMs Cakes division, Premiers Meat-free Premiers share price has been impacted business and all of our operations in the over recent months by concern over economic Republic of Ireland.
growth and inflationary cost pressures and a change in sentiment in the equity markets Our bread business has seen unprecedented to companies with higher levels of leverage.
change in 2007 with the price of milling wheat Management are handling cost and pricing more than doubling, a brand relaunch by one pressures very professionally and we believe of our major competitors and a national rollout that Premiers portfolio of well-known British by our other major competitor.
We recovered brands will stand it in good stead in the event the increase in the cost of wheat through price of an economic slowdown.
increases at the start of September and end of October and finally saw similar increases in the We believe that it is important for Premier to be retail prices for all our major competitors in able to continue the integration of Campbells early December.
and RHM to the original plan.
Over a period of three years we will be investing over 250m During 2007, our major change programme, in reducing Premiers cost base, increasing Project Fusion, continued its focus on upgrading capacity to enable further growth and our core systems and processes, based on the implementing an enterprise-wide management implementation of a new ERP software suite.
information system which will leave Premier The programme has been re-structured to very well positioned in the highly competitive include the ex-RHM businesses.
New processes market in which it operates.
To ensure and systems for HR payroll and new product that Premier can continue this investment development are now implemented.
In 2008 programme, the Board has decided that, the implementation of the orders to cash, given the cost inflation seen in 2007 and the forecasting and plant maintenance & potential for further inflationary pressures procurement modules will go-live.
By the end in 2008, Premier should obtain additional of 2008 we will have implemented virtually all financial headroom.
Premier has therefore of the new functionality in some parts of our agreed an amended set of financial covenants business which will then be rolled out during with its banks and negotiated additional 2009 to the remainder.
The Board has also decided to cut the dividend to increase the level of free cash flow retained within the business.
From this new base, I am confident we can increase the dividend regularly as the cost reduction programmes come to fruition and the business moves its focus to top line innovation driven growth.
08 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Chairmans statement continued Other acquisitions and disposals These are a few examples of the effort of the We have also taken important steps to manage people who work in Premier Foods and the our portfolio of businesses in the Group.
In contribution they make to the success of the March 2007, we disposed of MBM Produce Ltd business, and I thank them for their efforts.
a supplier of potatoes and other fresh produce to industrial and foodservice customers.
In Dividends May we disposed of the Erin Foods business, The directors are recommending the payment a requirement of the The Competition Authority of a final dividend, in respect of the year ended in the Republic of Ireland.
During the second 31 December 2007, of 2.2 pence per share.
half of 2007 we disposed of RHM Frozen The interim dividend of 4.3 pence per share Foods Ltd, a manufacturer of retailer label was paid in January 2008.
The final dividend products in the frozen pies, ready meals and will be paid on 4 July 2008 to shareholders on desserts categories.
In January 2007 we acquired Chivers Ireland Our dividend policy is to ensure that from its management.
Chivers is a leading Shareholders benefit from the successful supplier of preserves to Irelands retail growth and anticipated strong cash flow of the grocery and foodservice markets and business whilst providing sufficient funds for previously was one of our key distributors in investment purposes.
This acquisition complements our acquisition of Campbells and RHM and Board changes strengthens our position as a major player On 21 January 2008 we welcomed Mr David in the Irish food market.
Beever and Mrs Christine Cross to the Board as non-executive directors.
Employees 2007 was a high pressure year, with all at David is a non-executive director of JJB Sports Premier Foods and RHM working extremely plc, Volex Group plc and The Paragon Group of hard to integrate the businesses.
David was previously Chairman to this and other challenges is exemplary.
of London and Continental Railways Ltd and In addition to all the work on integrating the KPMG Corporate Finance and a Vice Chairman Campbells and RHM businesses: of SG Warburg & Co Ltd. David is also a member of the Audit Committee.
we launched Soupfulls, the first Batchelors liquid soup, into the UK: Christine is an independent advisor in retail we launched Oxo liquid stock: management having previously spent 14 years we launched two new Hovis seeded breads, at Tesco plc in a number of senior management responding to demand from increasingly roles including Group Business Development health-conscious consumers: Director.
Prior to this she lectured at Edinburgh we commissioned a new factory in Methwold and Bath Universities.
Christine is currently in Norfolk for our Meat-free business: and a non-executive director of Next plc and our Histon factory has joined safetys elite Sobeys Inc Canada as well as Retail Advisor after being awarded an International Safety to Apax Partners Venture Capital and Private Award from the British Safety Council.
She is also a member of the Remuneration Committee.
09 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 At the AGM on 16 May 2008, Miss Sharon Hintze will retire from the Board.
She joined the Group on its listing in 2004 and has provided wise counsel, based upon her long industry experience, for which we are all very grateful.
Looking to the future The trading environment for food companies continues to be tough and inflationary pressures remain a concern.
Raw material costs have risen sharply, particularly wheat prices which have more than doubled in the last 18 months.
However, we have now substantially recovered these increases through higher prices and cost savings.
The Board continues to follow its business strategy of using its scale to drive business efficiency and growing its brands through marketing and innovation.
In 2007 Premier Foods became the No.
1 food producer in the UK with annual retail sales of over 2.5bn.
We will remain focused on maintaining our high standards of product quality and customer service and achieving our financial targets.
I am confident that the quality and strength of our reorganised management teams and employees will deliver a successful company and drive value for all our stakeholders.
