20 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir David John 69, became non-executive Tony Durrant 49, joined Premier in June Simon Lockett 43, Chief Executive, joined Chairman in March 1998.
After qualifying as a Chartered Premier in January 1994 from Shell and has executive Chairman of the BOC Group plc Accountant with Arthur Andersen, he joined worked in a variety of roles for Premier, from January 1996 until January 2002 and is Lehman Brothers in London, initially as an oil including the management of investor currently Chairman of Balfour Beatty plc and sector analyst.
He joined the investment relations, as Commercial Manager in the British Standards Institution.
Sir David is banking division of Lehman in 1987 and from Indonesia and as Country Manager in a Member of the CBIs International Advisory 1997 was a Managing Director and Head of Albania.
He became a member of the Board, and is the Chairman of Premiers the European Natural Resources Group.
In this Premier Board on 9 December 2003 as Nomination Committee.
role, he managed both client relationships Operations Director.
He was appointed Chief and numerous transactions for a variety of Executive on 24 March 2005.
Robin Allan 48, joined Premier from Burmah European and North American clients.
He is a Oil in July 1986, working initially as a John Orange 65, joined Premiers Board non-executive director of Clipper Windpower geologist.
After technical and new venture as a non-executive director in February 1997. plc.
He joined the Premier Board on 1 July roles he spent six years in South East Asia, He held a variety of senior international 2005 as Finance Director.
initially managing Premiers Asian existing management and legal posts during his and new venture business and later Ronald Emerson 61, joined Premiers Board 30 years with the BP Group.
Mr Orange is becoming Premiers Country Manager in as a non-executive director in March 2001.
Premiers senior independent non-executive Indonesia.
He became a member of the He has held a number of senior positions in director, Chairman of the Remuneration Premier Board on 9 December 2003 as the banking sector, including roles at Bank of Committee and a member of the Audit and Director of Business Development.
America, Nomura Bank and, most recently, Risk and Nomination Committees.
with Standard Chartered Bank where he was Joe Darby 59, joined Premiers Board as a Professor David Roberts 64, joined Premier Chief Executive of their Malaysian operations non-executive director in September 2007. in June 2006 as a non-executive director.
before becoming the Group Head of Mr Darby has over 35 years of experience Professor Roberts has over 30 years Corporate Banking.
He was a Senior Advisor to in the energy sector, including eight years experience in all aspects of exploration the Bank of England between 1997 and 1998, with Shell Petroleum before becoming worldwide and extensive knowledge of deep and to the Financial Services Authority between Managing Director of Thomson North Sea water areas, sedimentary basins, stratigraphy 1998 and 2000.
He is a non-executive director Ltd.
He has held a number of senior roles, and prospect assessment.
He spent 22 years of Ace European Group Ltd, Noventa Ltd and including Chief Executive, with LASMO plc.
with BP in a number of technical roles, the Habib Group.
Mr Emerson is Chairman Mr Darby is currently the senior independent including Global Exploration Adviser and of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee, and a director at British Nuclear Fuels plc.
He has Distinguished Exploration Adviser.
On his member of the Remuneration and Nomination held non-executive roles at Mowlem plc and retirement from BP in 2003, Professor Committees.
Mr Emerson will retire from the Centurion Energy Inc and was Chairman of Roberts established his own geoscience Board at the close of the 2008 AGM.
Mowlem plc 2005-2006 and Faroe consultancy.
He is a visiting professor and Petroleum plc 2003-2007.
Mr Darby is a Neil Hawkings 46, joined Premier in May fellow of Royal Holloway, University of member of Premiers Audit and Risk, 2005 after more than 20 years with London, the University of Southampton and Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
ConocoPhillips where he worked in a variety IFP School in Paris.
He is a non-executive of engineering, commercial and director of GETECH plc.
Professor Roberts is Scott Dobbie 68, joined Premiers Board as management roles around the world, a member of Premiers Remuneration and a non-executive director in December 2000. undertaking assignments in the UK, Dubai Nomination Committees.
He has a career background in stockbroking, and Indonesia.
He joined the Premier Board as Managing Director of Wood Mackenzie Michel Romieu 68, joined Premiers Board on 23 March 2006 as Operations Director.
and subsequently Chairman of NatWest as a non-executive director in January 2008.
He is currently Chairman of the David Lindsell 60, joined Premiers Board in Mr Romieu has over 30 years experience in Securities & Investment Institute, The January 2008 as a non-executive director.
Mr the international energy sector, including Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and of Lindsell has recently retired from Ernst & Young 25 years with the Elf Group, where he held Standard Life European Private Equity Trust.
LLP, where he was a partner for nearly 30 years.
several senior positions including Chief He is also a Commissioner of the Jersey He has extensive experience across a range Executive Officer of Elf UK and the groups Financial Services Commission.
Mr Dobbie of industry sectors, with a strong knowledge Gas Division.
During his period as CEO of Elf is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, of the oil and gas sector.
He is a member of UK, he was elected President of the UK Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
the Financial Reporting Review Panel, a Offshore Operators Association for the year Mr Dobbie will retire from the Board at the member of the Standards Advisory Council 1995.
On his retirement from Elf in 2000, Mr close of the 2008 AGM.
of the International Accounting Standards Romieu became Director for Gas of CRE, the Board and a member of the Supervisory French energy regulator, a position he held Board of the European Financial Reporting until 2003.
He has established his own Advisory Group.
Mr Lindsell is a member of consultancy specialising in providing advice Premiers Audit and Risk Committee.
to the gas industry, and is a lecturer at the French Petroleum Institute.
Mr Romieu is also Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements President of Uprigaz.
GOVERNANCE 21 Sir David John Simon Lockett Tony Durrant Robin Allan Neil Hawkings Joe Darby Scott Dobbie Prof. David Roberts David Lindsell Ronald Emerson John Orange Michel Romieu Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements
