A new day, a new journey A new day, Our sources of competitive advantage are not easy for others to replicate.
Our broad footprint in mainland Europe gives us deep market understanding and practical experience of operating successfully in many different commercial and regulatory regimes.
Bringing together experts from many regions and city-scale operations into one group supports innovation and helps us to spread best practice and identify economies of scale.
Our wealth of local contacts and our network of operating and maintenance bases help us to develop existing businesses and to develop new opportunities for the future.
6 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Thomas Thomas Becken, Becken, 40, 40, is is managing managing director director of of operations operations for for Arriva Arriva in in Germany Germany.. Thomas Thomas joined joined Arriva Arriva in in 2004 2004 when when we we acquired acquired the the Prignitzer Prignitzer Eisenbahn Eisenbahn PEG PEG train train company company which which he he founded.
I was introduced to Arriva when I heard they were looking to enter the German transport market.
I was impressed with their approach of developing existing local management, whilst providing investment support to enable growth.
This, and the open way of working, convinced me to offer my company to Arriva.
By working with Arriva, PEG has been able to grow further, and now benefits from being part of the second largest private transport group in Germany.
Mr Mr Ioan Ioan Evans Evans and and his his wife wife Janet Janet from from Cwmcelyn Cwmcelyn in in Blaenau Blaenau Gwent, Gwent, who who are are retired, retired, were were travelling travelling on on the the new new Arriva Arriva T Trains rains W Wales ales Ebbw Ebbw V Valley alley service service to to Cardiff Cardiff.. We are impressed with the new train service from the Ebbw Valley, and plan to use it regularly.
It means we can get to Cardiff to go shopping so much more quickly than before.
Sergio Sergio Cecotti Cecotti is is the the Mayor Mayor of of Udine Udine in in Italy Italy.. Arriva Arriva owns owns a a 60 60 per per cent cent stake stake in in Italian Italian bus bus company company SAF SAF, with with the the Municipality Municipality of of Udine Udine holding holding 21 21 per per cent cent via via its its subsidiary subsidiary Udine Udine Servizi Servizi SpA SpA..
The reason for this partnership was the need to improve and develop our transport services by working with a major player in the local public transport business, both from a structural point of view and in terms of know-how.
We were looking for a public transport partner with an international vision and experienced approach in dealing with both operational and market issues, and we found this in Arriva.
Arriva has brought innovation and an effective approach in managing the company.
To Ton ny y Hewkin, Hewkin, 45, 45, is is a a bus bus driver driver based based at at Arrivas Arrivas Selby Selby depot.
He He was was winner winner of of the the Arriva Arriva Y Yorkshire orkshire bus bus driver driver with with the the X X-factorfactor competition competition after after local local customers customers voted voted him him their their number number one one driver driver.. After working in engineering and logistics, I fancied a change of direction and applied to Arriva for a job as a driver.
Eight years on, I still enjoy providing a valuable service for the public and meeting new people every day.
Its great to do a job where you can bring a smile to customers faces, and it was a lovely reward to be voted their favourite driver.
Daniela Daniela T Torres, orres, 27, 27, is is a a bakers bakers assistant.
She She lives lives in in P Portugal ortugal and and travels travels on on an an Arriva Arriva bus bus from from F Famalico amalico to to Guimares Guimares each each day day for for work.
Travelling by bus is the only affordable way for me to get to work everyday.
I dont mind getting the bus - the standard of the buses is good, the staff are nice and friendly, and the services reliable.
Photograph of the living earth courtesy of NASAs Earth Observatory 7
