Calling all stations Calling all stations Arriva now runs public transport services in 10 countries, and spans Bus operating area a wide range of operating environments in locations with varying market characteristics.
Our experience of bus and rail operations, and Train our strong local roots across Europe, give us unrivalled expertise New contracts yet to start and market knowledge as a leading pan-European operator.
United Kingdom Revenue 1,137.1 million 2006: 1,016.7 million Order book 8.0 billion 2006: 3.3 billion Buses 7,000 Train sets 211 Employees 22,550 Entered bus market 1980 Entered rail market 2000 Population 60.5 million Liberalisation stage London Mature Bus We operate approximately 20 per cent of the London market under contract to Transport for London.
Outside of London we run a predominantly commercial business, with more than 5,000 buses and an approximate market share of 15 per cent.
Rail The UK rail market is competitively tendered, with companies bidding for franchises for set timescales and service provision.
In November 2007 we started operating the UKs most geographically extensive rail franchise, CrossCountry.
We also run virtually all trains in Wales.
Future In both the UK regions and London, we aim to maintain our bus market share, whilst working to improve operational performance.
In rail, we will be concentrating on maintaining and improving the excellent operational performance of our two franchises, as well as putting plans into action at our new CrossCountry business to add capacity and improve the customer experience.
10 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Germany Revenue 219.2 million 2006: 121.7 million Order book 1.2 billion 2006: 0.9 billion Buses 820 Berlin Train sets 148 Employees 2,650 Entered rail market 2004 Entered bus market 2005 Population 82.3 million Liberalisation stage Emerging Germany is the largest European transport market Cross border service to the Netherlands Cross border service to the Czech Republic Bus The highly regulated bus market is almost three times as big as the UKs bus market.
It is hugely fragmented and dominated by state-owned Deutsche Bahn DB.
A substantial proportion of the market is still closed and conditions differ widely between the regions, with the exception of Hesse which has decided on a programme to tender all bus services between now and 2010.
Rail The rail market is also dominated by DB, however 20 per cent of the regional rail network has now been competitively tendered by regional authorities.
Future Economic pressures are increasingly driving the need for market testing in Germany.
With high capital state subsidies due to end, private companies are becoming an increasingly attractive option for the regional authorities.
In rail, it is expected that more short-distance passenger routes will be put out to tender.
There is much exciting potential for future growth in both bus and rail in this emerging market.
11 Calling all stations continued The Netherlands Italy Revenue Revenue 178.5 million 2006: 172.1 million 146.8 million 2006: 137.8 million Order book Order book 1.2 billion 2006: 1.0 billion 0.4 billion 2006: 0.4 billion Buses Buses 920 1,950 Train sets Employees 50 2,600 Employees Entered bus market Amsterdam 2,150 2002 Entered bus market Population Rome 1998 59.1 million Entered rail market Liberalisation stage 1999 Bus emerging Rail yet to liberalise Population 16.4 million Including share of associates Liberalisation stage Bus mature Rail emerging Cross border service to Germany Bus Bus Arriva is one of the top three private sector public transport The public transport system in Italy is highly subsidised with operators in the Netherlands, with approximately 20 per cent of low fares.
With competitive tendering yet to emerge, local and the regional bus market.
The regional bus market is dominated regional authorities in the north of Italy have set up special by Connexxion, which was privatised in July 2007, with the intermediate arrangements between the public and private sector government retaining a 33 per cent stake.
The four big cities in bus companies, and we are part of this in the Friuli Venezia the Netherlands, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, the Hague and Giulia region.
Arriva is the largest wholly privately owned public Utrecht, are yet to put concessions out to tender.
transport operator in Italy, with approximately five per cent of the Italian bus market.
Rail Very little of the rail network has been competitively tendered to Rail date, but as regional rail responsibility transfers to regional The responsibility for regional rail networks is devolved to local authorities, this is likely to increase.
The rail market is dominated authorities, however early attempts at competitive tendering have by state-owned NS Rail, and Arriva is the largest private operator.
The state-owned passenger rail operator, Trenitalia, has an 83 per cent market share, with 26 region-owned operators Future sharing the remaining 17 per cent.
We will continue to build on our established position as one of the leading bus operators in the Netherlands.
Having developed Future a strong reputation for operational reliability and passenger Liberalisation in Italy is expected to accelerate as the market growth, we are well placed to benefit from further liberalisation moves towards competitive tendering.
This is an exciting market in the rail market.
for us, with much potential.
12 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Czech Republic Poland Revenue Train sets 7.1 million 7 Buses Employees 300 60 Employees Entered rail market 430 2007 Prague Entered bus market Population Warsaw 2006 38.2 million Population Liberalisation stage 10.2 million Emerging Liberalisation stage Emerging Bus Bus Regional government controls route licensing and maximum Since 2003 the regional authorities have had the option of freely fares, and individual cities are responsible for urban public selecting transport companies, using invitation to tender transport and its funding.
There is currently little competitive procedures, and there are increasing instances of bus tendering tendering, and direct award of concessions is not uncommon.
and subcontracting in the larger towns and cities.
The bus market There are 251 bus companies operating in the market, many of is divided between 167 former state-owned companies which are the inter-urban CSAD companies that were formed in providing rural, inter-urban and long-distance transport, and the 1990s as part of the original privatisation process.
around 140 municipal bus operators operating in towns and cities.
Rail Rail Regional rail routes have been transferred to local government PKP SA PKP, the state-owned railway company, maintains and competitive tendering has recently started in some regions, and invests in infrastructure, hauls 85 per cent of the freight with the potential to expand in the mid to near future.
Rail in the market and operates long-distance and regional passenger V Czech Republic is dominated by state-ownedCesk Drhy CD, transport services.
After entering the market in December 2007, which has a 99 per cent share of the market.
with the start of a three-year rail franchise in the north of the country, the Arriva-PCC joint venture is the only other company Future currently operating passenger rail services in Poland.
There is a gradual move towards competitive bus tendering, particularly in cities such as Prague where the market is growing.
Future We have established a base around Prague and are well placed As a business experienced in turning around former public to grow as the market opens up.
The government has committed sector companies to become successful commercial operations, to enhancing the role of the private sector in the Czech Republic we expect to grow in this country over coming years.
Regional routes are being transferred to local government and there has been some market testing of passenger concessions by regional and central government.
13 Calling all stations continued Iberia Revenue Iberia is similar to the UK regional bus market in that it operates 105.4 million 2006: 85.8 million on a commercial rather than a contracted basis.
Portugal Spain Buses Buses 1,550 200 Train sets Employees 6 350 Employees Entered bus market 3,150 1999 Entered bus market Population Madrid 2000 43.7 million Population Liberalisation stage 10.6 million Bus emerging Lisbon Rail yet to liberalise Liberalisation stage Bus emerging Rail yet to liberalise Including share of associates Barraqueiro operating area shown in yellow Bus Bus The Portuguese bus market is a regulated market in transition.
The urban bus market is operated by private and city-owned The municipalities are responsible for allocating routes or companies, whilst the inter-urban and long-distance transport service networks through awarding exclusive concessions concessions are operated by private companies.
The market to independent operators, or by delivering the services directly.
remains fragmented as the 4,000-plus small operators, including Barraqueiro, in which Arriva has a 31.5 per cent interest, is the a large number of family businesses, between them account for largest operator, with Arriva third largest.
approximately 70 per cent of the market.
Rail Rail Urban and regional rail services are operated under concessions The rail market is yet to liberalise, and is dominated by allocated by the state, dominated by state-owned Camboios state-owned railway companies RENFE and FEVE.
State funding fide Portugal CP.
The first and only private company to hold a is provided for loss-making regional and urban services, and rail concession is Fertagus, owned by Barraqueiro.
Through there are no immediate plans to implement competitive tendering.
Barraqueiro, we also have an interest in the Metro Sul do Tejo Future tram operation in Lisbon.
Many bus concessions with exclusive rights over long periods will Future expire over the next five years, and there is a gradual move Work is under way to alter the legislation in force for bus public towards competitive tendering in some cities, such as Madrid transport provision at a regional and national level, and a where we have established a position.
A process of tendering for market changing trial may soon be started with the creation of private operators is planned for future rail services which are now metropolitan transport authorities in the Lisbon and Oporto being built, including underground, light rail and tram services.
There are no early signs of a move to competitive tendering in the rail market, but when changes do occur, we are well placed to benefit through the established good reputation of Fertagus.
14 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Scandinavia Revenue Order book 270.2 million 2006: 234.9 million 1.2 billion 2006: 1.1 billion Denmark Sweden Buses Buses 1,900 370 Train sets Train sets Stockholm 47 26 Employees Employees 5,150 1,050 Copenhagen Entered bus market Entered bus market 1997 1999 Entered rail market Entered rail market 2003 2007 Population Population 5.4 million 9.1 million Liberalisation stage Liberalisation stage Bus mature Bus mature Rail mid-liberalisation Rail mid-liberalisation Bus Bus Arriva is the largest private sector public transport operator in Competitive tendering is well established in the Swedish bus Denmark.
Having acquired Veolias bus operations in Denmark, market, after deregulation commenced in the 1980s.
Arriva has the second largest bus operator, in August 2007, Arriva has a secured a market share of around four per cent, mainly in the market share of approximately 60 per cent in Copenhagen and south of the country.
This will increase in late 2008 when Arriva, 50 per cent of the overall market.
Five passenger transport as the first new entrant into Stockholm in 10 years, begins authorities have the general responsibility for public transport operating 164 buses in the Swedish capital.
services, including the responsibility for ticket prices, timetables Rail and contract duration in their regions.
After entering the rail market in June 2007 with the nine-year Rail Pgatg contract in the Skne region, we now have Arriva was the first private company to be awarded a rail franchise, approximately a nine per cent share of the short-distance train and now operates 15 per cent of the regional network.
The market, by kilometres operated.
The rail market is dominated by national rail market is dominated by state-owned DSB, the state-owned operator, Swedish Railways SJ.
accounting for approximately 85 per cent of train kilometres in Future Denmark.
There has been much economic growth in southern Sweden, Future and the transport markets are benefiting from significant We anticipate improved profitability in the bus market following passenger growth.
We will be working hard to ensure our the exit of Veolia.
As the top-performing rail operator, with total operations make the most of this passenger growth in both bus reliability of 99.0 per cent in 2007, and a good record of and rail.
In addition, we will be looking to expand our bus passenger satisfaction, we are well placed to benefit from operations and build upon our rail presence in Sweden from enhanced levels of rail tendering in this market.
the platform established with the start of the Pgatg contract.
