Hold on tight Hold on tight Arriva is a fast-moving business on an exciting and responsible management of the environmental journey.
impact that inevitably comes from moving large numbers of people.
Already carrying people on more than one billion passenger journeys every year on buses, trains, To our investors, we aim to provide growth in commuter coaches and water buses, we have the earnings based on a varied portfolio of business vision of being recognised as the leading transport models, a mixture of contract sizes, types and services provider in Europe.
We want that durations, a range of transport modes, and a broad recognition in the eyes of our customers, ranging range of operating territories.
from private individuals to public authorities and Our commercial focus is on winning and retaining commercial businesses, and in the eyes of our contracts, by utilising the expertise and experience many and varied stakeholders.
gained from 10 years of operating across Europe, To our passengers, we aim to provide safe, reliable generating organic growth and making acquisitions, and comfortable services that deliver an attractive underpinned by excellent operational performance.
alternative to other modes of transport, including car We aim to improve our performance and our reputation, use, for at least some of the journeys they make.
year-on-year, by delivering better services and by To the public authorities which bear political trying new things.
accountability for transport, and which understand the Arrivas operations include a mixture of cash-generative benefits of private sector delivery, we aim to provide businesses in mature markets, and growth businesses value for money for the services their communities in liberalising markets.
Individually, each of the require, affording the public body the freedom to divisions - mainland Europe, UK Trains and UK Bus choose the right blend of improved services and or - has attractive features.
Taken together, they form a lower public spending.
blend of resilient market positions and exciting growth To our employees, we aim to provide worthwhile opportunities which is arguably unique amongst long-term employment, running services which are UK-based passenger transport operators.
important to their own communities, in a safe, With its experience of providing high quality transport, supportive working environment which encourages its unrivalled network of relationships across Europe, learning.
and a wealth of opportunity in all its divisions, Arriva To the wider community, in every city, region or country is building on its past, delivering in the present and is where we operate, we aim to provide the social and well positioned for the future.
economic benefits of affordable, accessible travel, 2 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 UK UK Trains In the UK, where our administrative headquarters The UK rail industry is characterised by small numbers are located and where our shares are listed, we are of large franchises - much larger than typical rail well known as one of the leaders of the urban and contracts in mainland Europe.
Arriva now holds two inter-urban bus industry, and a substantial, high UK franchises, operating as Arriva Trains Wales, and quality operator in the UK rail industry.
In both cases good operational performance is key to delivering a sound financial UK Bus performance.
Having experienced long-term losses of patronage before its privatisation in the mid 1980s, the UK Arriva Trains Wales, which holds its franchise until commercial bus market has recently shown 2018, is aiming for steady development.
The potential encouraging signs of patronage growth.
In Arrivas revenue impact of strong passenger demand is case, this has come as a result of customer focused limited by the substantial Government support marketing and service delivery.
We have had to payments which form around 70 per cent of the maintain a tight control on costs despite the inexorable revenues for the franchise, which is unable to cover increase in fuel costs and widespread traffic its costs on a fully commercial basis on the services congestion.
In part this has been achieved by creative it is contracted to run.
thinking about how best to use, and invest in, our Our success in winning CrossCountry, the UKs most employees and our depot infrastructure.
extensive rail franchise, which we began operating in Within the deregulated UK Regions business, which November 2007, will approximately treble the size of is about two-thirds of the division, our strategy is to the division in a full financial year.
Our stakeholder listen to our customers, to design and operate research has helped us to pinpoint important areas services that they most value, and work closely with where we can improve the passenger experience, local Government to achieve our shared agenda of make the business more efficient, market more reducing societys reliance on the motor car.
effectively and support growth in passenger numbers by increasing seating capacity.
We plan to increase London Bus, which represents around a third of the seating capacity by 35 per cent in the critical evening division, is more similar to the many mainland peak on principal routes by June 2009.
European markets we operate in.
It is a mature, competitive, tendered market which the transport authority, Transport for London TfL, expects to grow steadily in real terms, expanding 40 per cent on 2007 levels, by 2025 TfL 2025 Vision.
Our market share has been consistently close to 20 per cent for many years and our strategy is to continue to compete successfully to maintain and, where possible, improve that share in a growing market.
3 Hold on tight continued Mainland Europe Mainland Europe is Arrivas long-term growth engine.
Many of the organisations that have become part of The total passenger transport market for the EU27 Arriva have long histories of their own.
Arriva frequently countries is believed to exceed200 billion in annual spends months or years developing relationships and revenue.
Historically, surface transport services in dialogues with such organisations, building their most of Europe have been delivered predominantly by confidence and comfort with the benefits of becoming the public sector and the industry is in the early stages part of a larger whole.
of a major transformation towards private-sector A firm plank of our mainland European strategy is to delivery.
Against this backdrop we are confident of have every business headed by a management team meeting our medium-term objective of doubling drawn from the community it serves with access to a mainland Europe revenue from 2006 levels by 2011. wider pool of opportunities than they could realise on A decade of building Arrivas presence, extending their own - for investing in their business, for sharing to towns and cities in nine mainland European and developing innovation and best practice, and for countries, has established an invaluable network of seeing their best ideas influence their fellow Arriva contacts and relationships, a rich portfolio of depots managers across the rest of the business.
and businesses, and above all a depth of market understanding and knowledge that simply cannot be replicated easily or quickly.
In some countries we are amongst the market leaders, in others we are growing from a small base.
We always enter a national market with the aim of becoming one of the leading operators in that country, when conditions are right.
4 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 The main variations include: How we work Gross cost contracts We operate according to several different business In a gross cost contract the tendering authority agrees to pay models which vary by country, by region, and by the an operator a specified sum to provide the specified service for mode of transport.
Revenue from fares is passed to the Deregulated services tendering authority, which bears the revenue risk.
The service In a deregulated bus market, the key commercial provider generally carries the cost risk, though there may be relationship is directly between Arriva and our passengers provisions for cost increases to be passed through, such as - they are our customers, and their fare payments are elements of wage or fuel costs.
Generally the tendering the dominant source of income for the business.
Our authority will take responsibility for working out routes, and may services have to be profitable in order to be sustainable, also specify the vehicles to be used.
to generate the profits which underpin investments in replacement vehicles, our depot facilities, and the Because the operator has no direct commercial relationship expansion and development of services.
with passengers it is common for the tendering authority to provide a system of bonuses and penalties to give operators a In a deregulated market we compete against other forms financial incentive to provide the desired quality of service.
of transport, and against other operators of similar The UK London bus business, some of the rail operations in transport, in just the same way as a high street retailer Germany and bus contracts in Denmark, are examples of competes for the spending power of the public.
We bear where Arriva operates gross cost contracts.
the revenue risk, which is to say that if the travelling public decides to switch to another form of transport, the Net cost contracts lost revenue directly affects our finances.
In a net cost contract the operator takes on both the revenue Even deregulated services are subject to significant risk and the cost risk.
It keeps the revenues from fares, and the oversight, scrutiny and regulation in various ways, and tendering authority provides a contribution in the form of there is usually a layer of sector-specific regulation.
In our additional contracted income.
This offsets obligations that the UK Bus operations, for example, the quality of operation tendering authority may have to ensure the provision of a public and fitness for service of our vehicles and drivers is transport service, or to meet social objectives where the cost of regulated by Traffic Commissioners.
providing such a service would not be commercially viable if it depended solely on the fare income that it could achieve.
Most of the bus operations in the UK, outside London, On especially popular and important services it may be are deregulated and operate on a purely commercial possible for the tendering authority to reap a premium payment basis.
Contracted services are more common in other from the operator running these routes rather than providing European countries, and Spain and Portugal operate on financial support.
Contracted services UK rail franchises and bus and rail contracts in the Netherlands In most of our mainland European bus and rail markets, are examples of where Arriva operates within this form of the London bus market, and the UK rail market, our business model.
primary customer is some form of public-sector body.
A regional government or transport authority may offer various forms of contract which give an operator the right to operate services, usually exclusively, on a particular route or in a specific area.
Increasingly, as European transport markets become more liberalised, these contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive tendering.
During a transition period, however, contracts may be awarded directly following negotiation with an incumbent operator.
