Directors report The Directors present their annual report to shareholders on the affairs of the Group and the Company, together with the audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2007.
Results and dividends The results of the Group for the period are set out in the Consolidated income statement on page 46.
An interim dividend of 5.1 pence per share was paid to shareholders on 29 June 2007.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 10.2 pence per share payable on 23 January 2008.
This will bring the total dividend for the year to 15.3 pence per share.
Principal activity and review of the business The Groups main trading activities are the operation of public houses under either the leased model or as directly managed by the Group.
The leased model involves the granting of leases to tenants who operate the pub as their own business, paying rent to the Group, purchasing beer and other drinks from the Group and entering into profit sharing arrangements for income from leisure machines.
Pubs that are directly managed involve the employment of a manager to operate each managed pub and the Group receives all revenues generated by the pub and is responsible for costs.
A review of the years activities and future developments, and information on the risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, are included in the Business review.
The management of business risk is set out in the Corporate governance and Risk statements.
Key performance indicators KPIs are shown on page 1.
Directors and their interests The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 22 to 23.
Phil Dutton and Andrew Knight were both appointed as Directors of the Company on 24 January 2007.
Robert McDonald resigned on 17 October 2007, Adrian Fawcett resigned on 30 March 2007 and Phil Cox and Martin Glenn resigned on 24 January 2007.
The beneficial interests of Directors who held office at 18 August 2007 in the share capital of the Company are shown below: At At At 7 November 18 August 19 August 2007 2007 2006 Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary shares shares shares Peter Cawdron 4,850 4,850 4,850 Giles Thorley 232,234 232,234 154,439 Robert McDonald 101,260 101,260 69,654 Jonathan Paveley 10,894 10,894 3,150 Mike Foster 4,275 4,275 4,275 Andrew Knight 1,594 1,594 Ian Fraser Randl Shure 39,537 39,537 39,537 Fritz Ternofsky 6,337 6,337 17,337 Phil Dutton 10,000 None of the Directors has any interests in the shares of any other company in the Group.
Having not yet been approved by shareholders in a general meeting, the appointments of Phil Dutton and Andrew Knight will cease and resolutions for their election proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
At the meeting, Jonathan Paveley and Fritz Ternofsky will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
A statement of the Directors remuneration and their interest in share options of the Company is set out in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 32 to 44.
Directors indemnity The Group maintains directors and officers liability insurance and indemnity cover as defined in section 233 of the Companies Act 2006 which is provided for the benefit of the Companys directors and officers by a subsidiary company, Punch Taverns PGE Limited.
Substantial shareholdings As at 7 November 2007, the last practical date prior to the printing of this report, the Company has been notified of the following substantial interests representing 3% or more in the ordinary shares of the Company: AXA SA 11.59% Goldman Sachs 9.48% M&G Investments 6.95% Lansdowne Partners Limited Partnership 6.16% Marshall Wace Core Fund Limited 4.36% Barclays plc 4.35% Legal & General Investment Management 4.13% Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 25 5 Directors report continued Political and charitable contributions During the period, the Group made charitable contributions of 59,000 2006: 6,000.
The Group made no political contributions.
Disabled employees The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by handicapped or disabled persons.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion wherever appropriate.
The environment The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral to its business operation.
It is also committed to introducing measures to limit any adverse effects its business may have on the environment and will promote continuous improvement in accordance with best available techniques.
Employee involvement The total number of employees at the end of the period was 20,918.
The Group recognises the value of its employees and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment in which to work.
It places considerable importance on communications with employees, which take place at many levels through the organisation on both a formal and informal level.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company and the Group operates an Inland Revenue Approved Share Incentive Plan, in which 440 employees in total participate.
Employees purchase shares either as a one-off amount or on a monthly basis.
These are then held in trust for a period of three years at which point the Company matches the total number of shares purchased.
Under the Inland Revenue approved scheme, after a period of five years i. e. a further two years, the shares are released to the employee free of tax and National Insurance.
Creditor payment policy and practice It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At 18 August 2007 the Company had nil 2006: nil days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Financial instruments The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set out in note 21 to the financial statements.
Additional information for shareholders Following the implementation of the EU Takeovers Directive into UK law, the following provides the required information for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
At 18 August 2007, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares known as ordinary shares.
The share capital disclosures in note 24 to the accounts contain full details of shares allotted or purchased during the year and an explanation of movements in share capital during the year.
In a general meeting of the Company, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
The AGM notice gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of resolutions to be considered at the meeting either by proxy notice or present in person or proxy.
The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM to buy back up to 26,480,685 shares, which remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next AGM.
Such authority will only be exercised by the Directors after giving due consideration to the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
At the forthcoming AGM, authority will be sought for Directors to allot shares in the Company representing approximately 33% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the AGM notice.
Further details of these resolutions are contained within the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders with this report.
There are no restrictions on transfer of shares in the Company other than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example under the Market Abuse Directive.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Directors and persons discharging managerial responsibility PDMRs of the Company require prior approval from the Company to deal in the Companys securities, and are prohibited from dealing during closed periods.
The Company operates various share schemes that involve employee ownership of Company securities.
One such scheme, the Punch Taverns Share Incentive Plan SIP involves the use of an Employee Benefit Trust, into which employee purchased shares partnership shares are held on Trust for a qualifying period.
During this time, the shares are beneficially owned by employees and attract rights in respect of dividends.
The voting rights in respect of these shares are not exercised by the employees or trustees.
The Company also operates a Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSB for certain senior employees: bonus shares awarded are held in Trust for a qualifying period and attract full dividend and voting rights, which are exercisable by employees should they wish.
In the event of an offer being made to acquire the above mentioned partnership or bonus shares, employees are entitled to direct the trustees to accept an offer in respect of the shares held on their behalf.
com The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparation of the financial statements.
By order of the Board of Directors Neil Preston Company Secretary 7 November 2007 27 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 3
