E F F I C I E I N N T V S U E P S P T O R M T E C N A P T A S B B I U L Y I P T T Y Y R T I E L Businessreview Current industry issues Smokefree as antisocial behaviour and underage drinking.
There is a need We hold the view that the smoking ban will have a positive as an industry to ensure that all pubs trade responsibly and we effect on the industry in the medium to long-term.
However, it therefore actively support initiatives such as Challenge 21, is too early as yet to evaluate any impact of the smoking bans Best Bar None and local pub watch schemes.
We are also introduced in England and Wales earlier this year.
about to introduce a risk assessment review on a pub by pub basis, developed by the British Beer and Pub Association BBPA Our experience from Scotland is that a full year's trading, for the industryasawhole,   constructivelywith localauthorities, police forces, government, will be tested, is needed in order to establish any long-term industry bodies and our retailers and pub managers continue trends.
Nevertheless, our Scottish pubs have now returned to to raise standards within the industry.
growth and we are fully prepared in terms of smoking solutions in our managed and leased businesses in England and Wales.
Changestolegislation The Group operates in an industry which is, and may be in The ban has provided the industry with an opportunity to the future, subject to significant changes in many areas of attract a different customer base which is reflected in the government regulation and legislation.
The Group may be growth in food sales, up by 6% to 38% of sales in 2007 significantly affected by changes, which may be outside of within the core managed estate.
Moreover, we have received its direct control: such as extension of the smoking ban to considerable feedback from our retailers about the improved outside areas, changes to the legal age of drinking from 18 environment and the positive reaction of customers.
to 21, introduction of alcohol disorder zones, changes to  licensing regulations or costs and other financial regulation The British pub is one of the few remaining components changes such as rates of taxation.
The Group monitors unique to the UKs social culture and yet it is constantly being regulatory developments and works very closely with all put under pressure by misguided challenges.
We are strongly parties to support industry initiatives.
of the view that the pub is the best place for responsible adults  to socialise and enjoy great food, drink and entertainment.
We Recruiting and retaining good quality people is fundamental believe that the government should recognise this and make to the success of the Group.
Competition is strong for retailers positive efforts to protect the pub industry.
with both the financial resources and commercial acumen.
The However, as the largest operator of pubs in the UK, we also leased business continues to review ways to attract high calibre recognise our responsibility to lead on managing issues such retailers to our business model by offering in-pub support and Operating strategy Ouroperatingstrategy continuestofocusupon  pubexperiencetoeach ofourcustomers.
Our managed business, with its market leading training and competitive remuneration, helps to ensure our pubs are staffed by highly skilled individuals.
Succession planning and leadership programmes exist within our head offices to retain the best talent and develop potential leaders for the future.
 The economy has a significant impact on consumer spending  may limit the amount of disposable income for leisure activities, such as visiting the pub.
Seasonality and weather also impacts consumer expenditure in our pubs, with the summer and holiday periods, including Christmas and New Year, being busy periods of trading for the Group.
Thanks to the quality Hannah, , .
of our pubs, we are well positioned to make the most of difficult trading times.
 p20  A smoking solution at The Gateshead Arms, Gateshead.
High quality pubs efficient support capability     managedbusiness,  supportservices.
Well run , weinvestinpeopleand Financing strategy , PubManagers,  DeputyManagers,   ourcompetitiveedge.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 5  WE HAVE ACTIVELY PURSUED OUR STRATEGY TO CREATE A HIGH QUALITY ESTATE WHICH IS DELIVERING GROWTH GilesThorley, ChiefExecutive
