Board oF dirEctors maartEN hENdErsoN nOnExECuTIVE CHAIRMAn Mr Henderson, a Dutch national born in 1948 in Eindhoven netherlands, graduated in economics from Hamburg university.
He started his career at multinational electronics company Philips in 1972, where he held various commercial and financial positions, ending as Member of the Board of Management and CFO of Philips Kommunikations Industrie AG in 1996.
After that, he was CFO and Member of the Board of Management of SchmalbachLubeca AG an international packaging company listed in Germany from 1996 to 1999, of KPn n. V. the Dutch telecommunications incumbent listed in Amsterdam and new york from 2000 to 2004, and of nuon n. V. a Dutch energy company from 2004 to 2006.
In 2006 and early 2007, he worked for mobile service provider debitel AG as interim CFO and head of the divestment team.
From April 2007 to October 2007 he worked as Member of the Board of Management and CFO for Getronics n. V. an international ICT services company listed in Amsterdam.
In March 2007 it was announced that Maarten Henderson had been appointed by Hagemeyers general meeting of shareholders as Hold Separate Manager a B Director of the Management Board of Hagemeyer a company listed in Amsterdam.
dr huBErt aulich johN slEEmaN ExECuTIVE DIRECTOR, GERMAn OPERATIOnS nOnExECuTIVE DIRECTOR Dr Aulich has a PhD in Physical Chemistry from nyu, Mr Sleeman graduated in physics from the university of new york City, uSA.
Dr Aulich founded PV Silicon in Durham.
He started his career at Deloitte & Touche in 1997 with his partner Dr FriedrichWilhelm Schulze.
1970 where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant before In 2002 he became a member of the Board of moving to Samuel Montagu now part of HSBC Plc in PV Crystalox Solar AG where he had responsibility 1975.
During his time at HSBC, Mr Sleeman qualified as a for the German operations including the production Chartered Banker and held various project finance and and sales of wafers and was appointed as a director corporate finance roles, ending as Managing Director, of the Company on 21 May 2007.
Prior to founding Head of International Team, Corporate Finance from PV Silicon, Dr Aulich worked for Siemens Solar Group.
During that time Mr Sleeman held Dr Aulich joined the Central Research Laboratories directorships with a number of companies within of Siemens AG in Munich, Germany, in 1974 where he the HSBC Group.
After that, he was an adviser to worked in various positions in the field of optical fibre Emerging Markets Group specialising in structured communication and photovoltaics.
From 1988 to 1991 financial solutions and strategic advice.
Mr Sleeman he was Managing Director at PV Electric, a joint venture was a director of OSJC Power Machines and JSC Open of Siemens Solar GmbH, Germany, and Arco Solar, uSA, Investments during the year.
He is a partner of S. P. Angel where he was responsible for the commercialisation Corporate Finance LLP, an appointed representative of amorphous silicon thin film technology.
In 1992 he of S. P. Angel & Co. Limited, which is authorised by the became Managing Director at Siemens Solar GmbH FSA and is a member of the London Stock Exchange.
where he was responsible for technology of thin film and crystalline silicon solar cells.
He was Senior Vice President for Technology and Research for the Siemens Solar Group responsible for research and development in thin film and crystalline silicon solar cells as well as for systems application for Germany, uSA and Japan.
12 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
