22 | Future Plans | Annual Report 2007 Our future plans across the world The Group operates in a variety of markets, including mature markets as well as emerging exciting vibrant markets offering potential for future growth.
Below are some of the projects and initiatives which we believe will help the Group capitalise and reinforce its strong position as well as helping us deliver our targets for profitable growth.
Following the successful completion Going forward there will be significant personal wash manufacturing facility, of the milk factory last year, and with effort to grow and develop our milk and regarded as the Groups centre sales exceeding expectations, we brands and nutritional products in Africa.
It is anticipated that the have moved quickly to respond to local site will act as a central knowledge consumer needs by starting work on The Group has started building a new repository for the Group, with a focus the factory extension, and announcing manufacturing facility in Manchester to for research and development to ensure plans to build a second nutritional replace the existing liquid soap site at we are at the forefront of innovation, factory, to increase supply to the Kersal Vale which is running at capacity.
continuing to develop innovative growing nutritional market in Nigeria.
The new site will be a world class products to satisfy our local consumers.
Nutrition Agecroft We have announced plans to build a second nutritional factory, to The new site in Manchester will be a world class personal increase supply to the growing nutritional market in Nigeria.
wash manufacturing facility, and regarded as the Groups centre Going forward there will be significant effort to grow and develop of excellence.
our milk brands and nutritional products in Africa.
Future Plans | Annual Report 2007 | 23 A significant project to review our and importantly in a manner that is also leading brands with a focus on distribution network in our African more efficient to the Group.
The Nigerian public territories, which is regarded as one of were eagerly awaiting the opening our key strengths, has been started.
Our detailed knowledge of the Nigerian of the first store which opened this This has seen a thorough review of our market has identied the consumer summer in Lagos.
African distribution model, which demand for a different retail experience.
will result in significant developments This has led to the development of going forward to reduce further our HT Cool World, an innovative concept lead times of goods to the consumer, of a plaza store to showcase our African distribution network review HT Cool World A thorough review of our African distribution model has been We have developed the innovative concept of a plaza store, called undertaken, which will result in significant developments going HT Cool World, to showcase our leading brands with a focus forward to reduce further our lead times of goods to the on electrical goods.
The Nigerian public were eagerly awaiting the consumer, and importantly in a manner that is also more efficient opening of the first store which opened this summer in Lagos.
