24 | Group-wide Initiatives | Annual Report 2007 As part of our long-term people development plan, we have reappraised the core values that we believe should be embedded in our culture.
These values are being rolled out across our Group to embed them in every operation.
The revised values provide a framework for staff and ultimately the Group to develop and succeed.
We challenge convention, ourselves and each other.
We have the strength, willingness and determination to initiate, make things happen and to carry them through.
We are all champions of our company.
We take personal responsibility for achieving our objectives.
We do what we say we shall do.
We do what is right, not merely what is expected.
We act with openness, integrity and trust.
We ask for help, admit to our mistakes and put things right.
We are one company across all functions and geographies.
We work towards a common goal through co-operation and teamwork.
We are relentless in our pursuit of success.
Together we approach each day with the energy, passion and persistence to exceed expectations.
We are all PZ Cussons people.
We treat each other with respect regardless of status.
We act professionally and together we celebrate our success with understated pride.
Financial Statements | Annual Report 2007 | 25 26 Report of the Directors Continued 31 Report on Directors Remuneration 35 Corporate Governance 38 Corporate Social Responsibility 40 Independent Auditors Report 41 Consolidated Income Statement 41 C onsolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 42 Consolidated Balance Sheet 43 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 44 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 72 Five Year Financial Record 73 Independent Auditors Report on the Company Financial Statements 74 Company Balance Sheet 75 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 26 | Annual Report 2007 | Financial Statements REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture and distribution of soaps, detergents, toiletries, pharmaceuticals, electrical goods, edible oils and nutritional products.
The subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures principally affecting the profits, liabilities or assets of the Group are listed in note 31 of the consolidated financial statements.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.27p 2006: 2.95p per ordinary share to be paid on 26th September 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 24th August 2007 which together with the interim dividend of 1.00p 2006: 0.93p paid on 10th April 2007 makes a total of 4.27p for the year 2006: 3.88p.
Political and charitable contributions Charitable contributions in the United Kingdom during the year amounted to 50,000 2006: 50,000.
No political contributions were made 2006: nil.
Research and development The Group maintains in-house facilities for research and development in the United Kingdom, Poland, Indonesia, West Africa and Australia: in addition, research and development is sub-contracted to approved external organisations.
Currently all such expenditure is charged against profit in the year in which it is incurred, as it does not meet the criteria for capitalisation under IAS 38 Intangible assets.
Payment of suppliers It is the responsibility of the management of each operating unit within the Group to agree appropriate terms of business with suppliers upon entering into binding contracts, and to adhere to these payment terms provided the relevant goods or services have been supplied in accordance with the contracts.
Employment of disabled persons During the year the Group has maintained its policy of providing equal opportunities for the appropriate employment, training and development of disabled persons.
Employee information The Group recognises the benets of keeping employees informed of the progress of the business and of involving them in their companys performance.
The methods of achieving such involvement are different in each company and country and have been developed over the years by local management working with local employees in ways which suit their particular needs and environment, with the active encouragement of the parent organisation.
Auditors In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the company at the date when this report was approved: So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened by the Companies Act 1985 of which the companys auditors are unaware Each of the directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP have signied their willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution for their re-appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Financial Statements | Annual Report 2007 | 27 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Enhanced Business Review The functional performance of the Group, along with an analysis of KPIs is provided on pages 6 to 21.
The additional information required to be disclosed in the Enhanced Business Review is shown below.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group The Groups business activities, financial condition, results of operations or the companys share price could be affected by any or all of the following risks or uncertainties: Political and economic stability The Group conducts a significant portion of its operations outside the UK in developing markets which have an increased risk of political and economic instability: however, the Group has a diverse geographic portfolio in order to help mitigate the risk that could arise in any one particular territory.
Foreign currency and treasury risk The international range of the Groups activities gives rise to both transactional exchange rate risk and translation exposure when the results, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling.
The Group requires its operating units to hedge their material transaction exposures on sales and purchases conducted in currencies other than their functional currencies.
The Groups main foreign currency exposure relates to US dollar trade balances.
The Group does not actively hedge its translation exposures as these are of an accounting rather than a cash nature, however the international spread of the Groups operations itself reduces dependence on individual currencies.
The Group maintains a centralised treasury function which operates on a non-speculative basis in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the board of directors.
The aim of this function is to mitigate the effects of any adverse movements in exchange rates and interest rates on the Groups financial results.
The Group maintains a substantial net funds position as dened on page 6.
Net funds at 31st May 2007 were 60.3 million 2006: 51.9 million, an analysis of which is provided in the Financial Highlights.
These principally comprise short and medium-term deposits and borrowings.
This mix of funds allows the Group exibility in optimising its central funding position and the ability to act promptly to counteract any adverse movements in interest rates in its overseas territories.
Raw materials The Groups profitability depends on the cost of raw materials from around the world, which exposes it to price and supply uctuation.
Key items, such as oils and fats, packaging materials and energy are subject to uctuations in price and availability.
The Group does take measures to protect against the short-term impact of these uctuations and shortfalls: however, failure to recover higher costs or shortfalls in availability could have a negative impact on profits.
28 | Annual Report 2007 | Financial Statements REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Directors Professor J A Arnold was appointed a non-executive director on 1st January 2007.
Messrs C Nicoloulias, R H Sellers and P J Smyth retired from the board on 31st May 2007.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, Professor J A Arnold now retires as a director and, being eligible, offers himself for election at the annual general meeting.
The directors retiring by rotation are Mr A J Green, Mr A G Calder and Mr D W Lewis who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Executive directors at 31st July 2007 Mr A J Green Chairman age 56 He joined the company in 1975 and was appointed to the board in 1990 becoming Chairman in 1993.
Mr A G Calder Deputy Chairman age 60 He joined the company in 1996 and was appointed to the board in 1998 becoming Deputy Chairman in January 2006.
Mr G A Kanellis Chief Executive age 42 Was appointed Chief Executive in June 2006.
He joined the company in 1993 and was appointed to the board in 2003.
Mr C G Davis Regional Director Africa age 45 He joined the company in 1993 and was appointed to the board in 2006.
Mr B H Leigh Finance Director age 36 He joined the company in 1997 and was appointed to the board in 2006.
Mr J Pantelireis Supply Chain Director age 53 He joined the company in 1980 and was appointed to the board in 2005 having held a number of senior positions with the Group.
Independent non-executive directors at 31st July 2007 Mr J D M Smith age 67 Was for many years an executive director of BTR Plc.
Appointed to the board in 2000, Mr Smith is the senior non-executive director.
Professor J A Arnold age 63 A chartered accountant and Chairman at Pro.
Appointed to the board in 2007.
Mr D W Lewis age 62 A former partner of Addleshaw Goddard.
Appointed to the board in 2004, Mr Lewis is a non-executive member of the Addleshaw Goddard Governance Board.
Mr J T J Steel age 47 A chartered accountant and Managing Director of Corporate Finance at Arbuthnot Securities.
Appointed to the board in 2005.
The gures in the tables do not include 3,913,299 2006: 4,972,990 ordinary shares purchased by the ESOT Employee Share Option Trust at 31st May 2007.
The ESOT is a discretionary trust under which the class of beneciaries who may benefit comprises certain employees and former employees of the company and its subsidiaries including members of such employees and former employees immediate families.
Some or all of the shares held in the ESOT may be the subject of awards to executive directors of the company excluding the Chairman under the deferred annual share bonus scheme, details of which are given in the report on directors remuneration.
Accordingly those executive directors are included in the class of beneciaries and are deemed to have a beneficial interest in all the shares acquired by the ESOT.
The gures in the tables do not include 6,864,539 2006: 5,487,190 ordinary shares granted as options under the executive share option scheme at 31st May 2007.
Further details of this scheme are given in the report on directors remuneration.
The register recording the directors interests will be open for inspection at the annual general meeting.
No director had any beneficial interest during the year in shares or debentures of any subsidiary company.
There were no contracts of signicance subsisting during or at the end of the financial year with the company or any of its subsidiaries in which a director of the company was materially interested.
During the year, the company maintained liability insurance for its directors and ofcers.
The comparative gures have been restated for the share split, on the basis of ten for one, which was approved at the last annual general meeting on 25th September 2006, such that there are now ten 1p ordinary shares for every 10p ordinary share previously in existence before the share split.
30 | Annual Report 2007 | Financial Statements REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Other substantial interests The register maintained by the company under section 808 of the Companies Act 2006 disclosed the following interests in the shares of the company held at 31st July 2007: Number of shares % J B Zochonis 60,619,580 14.14 Zochonis Charitable Trust 49,365,040 11.51 Invesco UK Limited 21,445,506 5.00 Mrs C M Green Settlement 20,328,280 4.74 J B Zochonis Settlement 19,927,130 4.65 Sun Life Unit Assurance Ltd 13,843,464 3.23 Special business at the annual general meeting The resolutions that will be proposed at the annual general meeting on 24th September 2007 are set out in the separate Notice of annual general meeting dated 23rd August 2007.
Purchase of own shares No shares were purchased during the period from 1st June 2006 to 30th July 2007 2006: nil, other than the acquisitions undertaken by the ESOT see note 26.
By order of the board of directors B H LEIGH Secretary 31st July 2007 Financial Statements | Annual Report 2007 | 31 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and satisfies the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
The table on directors emoluments and information on the deferred annual share bonus scheme, the executive share option scheme and directors pensions constitute audited information.
Remuneration committee The members of the committee during the year were Professor J A Arnold appointed 1st January 2007 and Messrs D W Lewis, R H Sellers retired 31st May 2007, J D M Smith Chairman and J T J Steel.
The members are all non-executive directors of the company.
They are independent, have no conicts of interest and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors.
The committee was advised during the year by New Bridge Street Consultants, London, in relation to salary levels, the deferred annual share bonus scheme and the executive share option scheme.
Policy on executive directors remuneration The employment conditions, pay and benets are intended to reward and motivate directors in a manner which reects the global and competitive nature of the Groups business and to be sufficient to attract and retain persons of high calibre.
Elements of the remuneration package are as follows: Basic salary and benets Participation in the deferred annual share bonus scheme Participation in the executive share option scheme Pension benets from the executive directors scheme Basic salary and benets Salaries are reviewed annually by the remuneration committee.
The review takes account of individual performance, company performance, external surveys and remuneration levels in a range of companies of comparable size, geographical spread and market sector.
Taxable benets, which are subject to periodic review, include health insurance and car benets.
Deferred annual share bonus scheme As part of the Groups focus on improved operating performance, a deferred annual share bonus scheme was introduced with effect from 1st June 2000 for main board executive directors excluding the Chairman and certain key subsidiary directors.
The award of a bonus to a maximum of 50% of basic salary is dependent upon the achievement of operating profit targets and will normally be received by the directors following three years of continuing employment from the date of the award.
Awards are made in a combination of cash and shares which are purchased in the market and retained in an employee trust until they are issued to the directors.
Bonuses to be awarded for achievement of targets for the current financial year are included in the directors remuneration table on page 33 and are calculated using the market value at 31st May 2007 of 1.72 per share.
Further details of the employee trust are given in note 26 of the consolidated financial statements.
The maximum bonus of 50% can be exceeded for directors retiring in the current or following financial year as they are compensated for their non-participation in the executive share option scheme, based on the scheme rules with any interpretation agreed by the remuneration committee.
Executive share option scheme An executive share option scheme was introduced with effect from 1st June 2003.
This emphasises the boards commitment to ensuring the interests of senior executives are clearly aligned with shareholders interests.
Key points of the scheme are as follows: Senior executives excluding the Chairman will be granted options to buy shares at the market value of the shares when the options are granted.
This means that executives will only benefit under the scheme to the extent that shareholders benefit through increases in the share price The value of shares under options granted to an executive in any financial year will be limited to a maximum of 1.5 times basic salary.
Options granted to executives have not exceeded one times basic salary The exercise of options granted will be subject to performance conditions based on the companys normalised earnings per share growth relative to ination over three financial years.
The following targets will apply: Proportion of option grant exercisable Performance conditions average annual growth in excess of ination in earnings per share 33% RPI 3% pa 33% 66% pro rata RPI 3% to 5% pa 66% 100% pro rata RPI 5% to 7% pa 32 | Annual Report 2007 | Financial Statements REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED The remuneration committee will review the performance conditions each time options are granted, in order to ensure that they remain challenging in the context of the companys long-term budgets, and may impose different conditions provided they are suitably challenging With effect from 1st June 2006 options granted are no longer subject to retesting in the fourth year following grant Details of options granted to directors are as follows: The fourth grant of options took place on 31st August 2006.
The exercise price for these options, equal to the market value at the date of the grant, is 1.41, and is applicable to all directors.
Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
There have been no other grants of options during the year and no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria during the year.
Performance graph The graph illustrates the performance of PZ Cussons Plc measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR over the five year period to 31st May 2007 against the TSR of a holding of shares in the FTSE 250 index over the same period, based on an initial investment of 100.
The FTSE 250 index was chosen as PZ Cussons Plc is a constituent of that index.
The service contract of PJ Smyth was terminated by mutual agreement on 31st May 2007.
In addition to the remuneration shown in the above table, PJ Smyth received 450,000 in cash in compromise of his entitlements on termination of his service contract.
34 | Annual Report 2007 | Financial Statements REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED Pension benets The executive directors pension scheme provides benets of up to two thirds salary subject to a scheme specic earnings cap, dependants pensions and lump sum payments in the event of death in service.
Benets in kind are not pensionable.
All the executive directors at 31st May 2007 are members of the scheme.
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year and salary at 31st May 2007.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 9.2 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The value of net increase b represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase a after deducting the directors contribution.
The change in the transfer value c includes the effect of uctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company and directors, such as gilt yield movements.
It is calculated after deducting the directors contribution.
Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benets are not shown.
The total accrued pension as at 31st May 2007 and the value of accrued pension at 31st May 2006 and 31st May 2007 shown for Messrs Calder and Smyth include benets resulting from transfers into the plan.
Mr C Nicoloulias retired on 31st May 2007.
The above gures are based on the change to Mr Nicolouliass accrued benets between 31st May 2006 and 31st May 2007.
On retirement, Mr Nicoloulias received an annual pension of 150,003 and a cash lump sum of 440,793.
Mr P J Smyth retired on 31st May 2007.
The above gures are based on the change to Mr Smyths accrued benets between 31st May 2006 and 31st May 2007.
On retirement, Mr Smyth received an annual pension of 93,331.
The company provides unfunded, unapproved pension benets for Messrs Calder, Smyth, Leigh and Davis as their benets would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
The funded benets payable to these directors remain subject to a scheme specic earnings cap, which increases each year and is calculated in a similar manner to the abolished statutory earnings cap.
Service contracts Executive directors have one year rolling service contracts.
No executive director, including those proposed for re-election, has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or containing any provision for pre-determined compensation on termination exceeding one years salary and benets in kind.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for initial periods of three years, normally renewable on a similar basis.
By order of the board of directors J D M Smith 31st July 2007 Financial Statements | Annual Report 2007 | 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The board is committed to meeting the standards of good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on corporate governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
This report, together with the report on directors remuneration describes how the board applied the Code during the year under review.
Directors The board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, monitoring its business objectives and maintaining a system of effective corporate governance.
The board of directors has ten members comprising the Chairman, the chief executive, four other executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The names of the directors together with their biographical details are set out in the report of the directors.
The differing roles of the Chairman and chief executive are acknowledged.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the board and ensuring that it is supplied in a timely manner with sufficient information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The chief executive is responsible for coordinating the running of the business and implementing Group strategy.
The executive directors service contracts and the letters setting out the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys registered ofce during normal business hours and at the annual general meeting.
The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr D W Lewis is a former partner of Addleshaw Goddard, who act as legal advisors to the company, and is also a non-executive member of the Addleshaw Goddard Governance Board.
Mr Lewis does not and has not participated in any way in the provision of services by Addleshaw Goddard to PZ Cussons.
In addition, in order that his independence is not compromised, if at any time the board or a committee of the board is considering any matter concerning Addleshaw Goddard, it has been agreed that Mr Lewis will withdraw from that meeting until such matters have been dealt with.
The senior independent non-executive director is Mr J D M Smith.
In his capacity as senior independent director Mr Smith is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, chief executive or finance director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The board has a documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision, including approval of the Groups strategy, annual budgets, material agreements and major capital expenditure and acquisitions, the approval of financial arrangements, and the monitoring of performance, health, safety and environmental matters and risk management procedures.
The board met formally four times during the year and will meet further as necessary to consider specic matters.
All the directors were in attendance at each meeting.
All directors communicate with each other on a regular basis and board papers are prepared and issued prior to each board meeting to enable directors to give due consideration to all matters in advance of the meeting.
Directors can take independent professional advice where necessary at the companys expense and have access to the services of the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures and all applicable rules and regulations are followed.
There is a formal induction process for directors including visits to principal sites and meetings with operating management.
Directors may take additional training where necessary as part of their continuing development at the expense of the company.
A formal review of the board and board committee performance is carried out annually.
The Chairmans performance is reviewed by the non-executive directors led by the senior independent director and takes into account the views of the executive directors.
The performance of the non-executive directors is evaluated by the Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors.
The remuneration committee reviews executive directors performance with guidance from the Chairman and the chief executive except in the case of the chief executives performance where it is reviewed by the Chairman and the remuneration committee.
The directors submit themselves for election at the annual general meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation in line with the Code and the companys Articles of Association.
The review process in 2007 concluded that all directors continue to contribute effectively and with proper commitment, devoting adequate time to carry out their duties.
The board has established a number of standing committees to which various matters are delegated according to dened terms of reference.
The terms of reference of the committees are available, on request, from the registered ofce of the company and will also be available at the annual general meeting.
Nomination committee The nomination committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the board and identifying and recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the board when vacancies arise.
The committee members are Mr A J Green committee Chairman, Mr G A Kanellis and the four independent non-executive directors, Professor J A Arnold, Mr D W Lewis, Mr J D M Smith and Mr J T J Steel.
In considering an appointment the nomination committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
External search agencies or open advertising will be used where this is appropriate.
Short-listed candidates will then be invited to interview with members of the committee and, if recommended by the committee, will be invited to meet other board members before any decision is taken relating to the appointment.
The committee met twice during the year and all the committee members were in attendance at each meeting.
36 | Annual Report 2007 | Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Remuneration committee The remuneration committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors and senior executives, which the board as a whole is responsible for approving.
The committee members are the four independent non-executive directors, Professor J A Arnold, Mr D W Lewis, Mr J D M Smith committee Chairman and Mr J T J Steel.
Once approved, the remuneration committee is responsible for evaluating the performance and determining specic remuneration packages for the Chairman and each executive director.
The Chairman and executive directors are responsible for the agreement of non-executive directors remuneration.
The committee met five times during the year and all the committee members were in attendance at each meeting.
Audit committee The audit committee is responsible for reviewing, on behalf of the board, the Groups accounting and financial policies and its disclosure practices and internal controls.
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the appointments, terms, remuneration and performance of the external auditors and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
These responsibilities are discharged at the audit committee meetings and through regular reports from the internal audit function.
The audit committee comprises the four independent non-executive directors, Professor J A Arnold committee Chairman, Mr D W Lewis, Mr J D M Smith and Mr J T J Steel and meets regularly with the external auditors.
Professor J A Arnold, a qualied chartered accountant, brings recent and relevant financial experience to the audit committee.
The audit committee met three times during the year and all the committee members were in attendance at each meeting.
As mentioned, one of the duties of the audit committee is to make recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors.
A number of factors are taken into account by the committee in assessing whether to recommend the auditors for reappointment.
These include the quality of the reports provided to the audit committee and the board and the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business.
The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the auditors.
The auditors are permitted to provide non-audit services that are not, and are not perceived to be, in conict with auditor independence, providing they have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work and are considered to be the most appropriate to undertake such work in the best interests of the Group.
Activities that may be perceived to be in conict with the role of the external auditors must be submitted to the committee for approval prior to engagement, regardless of the amounts involved.
All assignments are monitored by the committee.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial statements.
Risk management committee The risk management committee is responsible for identifying significant risks and ensuring, where possible, that action is taken to mitigate these risks.
This is achieved by an ongoing review which includes identifying all risks faced by the Group and assessing those risks, and ensuring that appropriate control measures are put in place.
Plans are developed and implemented to eliminate, reduce or transfer these risks where practicable.
The committee is also responsible for reviewing the risk management and control process within the Group.
The committee comprises senior management from within the business and receives input from professional advisers.
It met twice during the year and regularly reports to the board.
In addition, the board undertakes annually a formal review of the risk management process and the performance of the risk management committee.
Remuneration Details of directors remuneration are set out in the report on directors remuneration.
Accountability and audit Directors responsibilities in relation to financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: Properly select and apply accounting policies Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance Financial Statements | Annual Report 2007 | 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern After undertaking an appropriate review, the directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurances against material misstatement or loss.
The board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31st May 2007 and up to the date of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the board and that it accords with the Turnbull guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
The process includes: Frequent communication between the board and subsidiary management on all critical business issues Regular visits to operating units by the board, head ofce management and internal audit A detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting Regular review by the board of a risk management document produced by the risk management committee Taking necessary action to remedy any significant weaknesses found as part of the review of the effectiveness of the internal control system At its July 2007 meeting, the board carried out the annual assessment of internal control for the year to 31st May 2007 by considering documentation from the executive committee, risk management committee and internal audit function as well as taking into consideration events since the year end.
The Group continues to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the board.
The Group has ethical guidelines and a dened fraud reporting process which are issued with the Group Internal Control Manual.
Relations with shareholders In its financial reporting to shareholders the board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
The company maintains a corporate website, www.
com, containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors and a subscription e-mail service is available which enables access to company notications and news releases.
The company has periodic discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to present questions to the board at the annual general meeting and the directors are available to meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
Compliance statement The directors consider that, throughout the accounting period, the company complied with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code as published in July 2003 and contained in the rules of the UK Listing Authority with the following exception: Code Provision A.
3.2: The board recognises that the Code species that at least half of the members on the board excluding the Chairman should be independent non-executive directors.
Throughout the year the board comprised the Chairman, a total of seven executive directors and five non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent and whose respective backgrounds clearly indicate that they are of sufficient calibre and number for their views to carry significant weight in the boards decisions.
38 | Annual Report 2007 | Financial Statements CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PZ Cussons is committed to running its business with integrity and with care insofar as the social and environmental impact of our activities is concerned.
We aim to make a positive impact on society through the products we manufacture and sell, through our commercial operations and through the voluntary contributions we make to the community.
Corporate social responsibility CSR is a traditional value for the PZ Cussons organisation and is key to the way the company operates throughout the world.
Through competitive employment policies we add value into the areas in which we operate by helping to meet the differing product needs of customers in developing countries and investing in more efficient production technologies and systems.
PZ Cussons takes regular account of the signicance of social, ethical and environmental SEE matters to the business of the company and we have ensured the availability of adequate information to assess and manage SEE issues.
The company strives to maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct and corporate responsibility to ensure that reputable business practices are applied worldwide and ethical issues are dealt with in an effective and transparent manner.
There is a strong emphasis throughout the organisation on commitment, trust, teamwork, personal accountability and commercial acumen.
The environment PZ Cussons takes regular account of the signicance of environmental matters to the business of the company and has identied and assessed risks arising from its operations both to the environment and to the companys short and long-term value.
PZ Cussons is committed to playing its part in protecting the environment, for the benefit of its employees and the public at large.
The company has ensured and will continue to ensure that it complies with environmental laws and regulations and will continue to identify the environmental impacts of the business and nd effective ways of reducing them.
We continue to implement systems to enable the measurement of certain environmental indicators, such as energy and water use, emissions to air or water and waste generation and we design our new and upgraded plants and processes to be energy efficient and low maintenance.
We also work closely with relevant local water authorities in order to identify potential water saving methods.
In the UK the company has focused on improving the management of waste collection and recycling.
Our manufacturing processes, facilities, distribution practices and products are designed to minimise the effect on the environment.
The company ensures that the design and development of new products take into account the potential environmental impact of production and appropriate measures are taken to contain such impacts.
The company will continue to provide the guidance necessary to ensure high standards are achieved at our manufacturing sites around the world whilst promoting continuous improvement based on careful risk assessment and comprehensive management systems.
During recent years there have been major factory operating and efficiency improvements throughout the Group as we move towards world class manufacturing excellence.
Health and safety PZ Cussons aims to maintain a safe workplace at all locations in which it operates.
We continue to ensure that our business activities are undertaken in a responsible manner and in accordance with the relevant statutory legislation and that employees at all levels participate in the development, promotion and maintenance of a safe and healthy working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
The company employs health and safety specialists and, where appropriate, provides on-site medical facilities for employees.
The company continues to monitor and increase standards of health and safety at work through risk assessment, safety audits, formal incident investigation and training.
Our investment in plant and equipment enables us to modernise designs and operate safer and more efficient processes.
Financial Statements | Annual Report 2007 | 39 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Employment and staff development As an international group, and particularly bearing in mind our operations in developing countries, we focus resource on the employment and development of local staff with the intention of assisting both our operations in those countries and the local community.
Employees are involved at all levels of decision-making throughout the Group with effective communication via regular consultation groups and briengs.
Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in performance and over the past year employees of all grades have received training through a wide range of courses.
The employment policies of the Group embody the principles of equal opportunity, training and development and rewards appropriate to local markets which are tailored to meet the needs of its business and the areas in which they operate.
This includes procedures to support the Groups policy that disabled persons shall be considered for appropriate employment and subsequent training and career development.
The company continues to share valuable experience and best practice within the Group through employee secondment.
PZ Cussons UK Limited is accredited with the Investor In People Award, recognising our commitment in developing our people in line with business needs.
Our appraisal-based progression systems ensure that individual needs are continually assessed.
Community and charity We support a range of charitable causes, both in the UK and overseas, mainly through a UK based shareholding trust and additional contributions are made through staff time and gifts in kind.
PZ Cussons continues to provide assistance and donations to significant global fund-raising initiatives and recognises its responsibility to the communities in which it operates.
We are committed to establishing and maintaining strong relationships with community groups, particularly in developing markets.
Product safety PZ Cussons is committed to understanding issues involving safety associated with our products and supplying safe products to consumers.
Human safety assessments for personal care products are carried out under the Cosmetic Products Directive.
We also have in place more general guidelines relating to product safety, covering raw material use, labelling and packaging requirements.
Animal testing None of our products are tested on animals.
We support the development and acceptance of alternative methods that reduce or replace the use of animals in product safety evaluation.
We are in regular contact with our suppliers to ensure that our values on this subject are shared and where feasible they work to similar standards.
Development of CSR reporting Corporate social responsibility is acknowledged at the highest level at PZ Cussons and the board has reviewed and fully endorsed the CSR review.
We are continuing to focus on establishing practices that will allow us to manage and monitor our social and environmental impacts in greater detail to enable us to further develop our corporate social responsibility reporting.
