QinetiQ Group plc 40 Annual Report 2007 Our Board of Directors a b 1.
Doug Webb Brambles Industries Limited.
Sir David is Chairman Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer Executive Director currently a Non-executive Director of the Royal Sir John Chisholm 60, the Non-executive Doug Webb 46 is the Chief Financial Officer Opera House and Chairman of the governing Chairman of QinetiQ, was Chief Executive Officer of QinetiQ.
Doug was appointed to the Board body of Shrewsbury School.
He is also a Fellow of QinetiQ previously DERA from 1991 to 2005, in September 2005, having previously been of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in transforming it into a successful trading fund Group Financial Controller.
He joined QinetiQ in England and Wales.
The Board considers that and developing its commercial business.
Until June 2003 from LogicaCMG, where he had most Sir Davids detailed understanding of the October 2006, he was the Executive Chairman recently been the Regional Finance Director for Defence sector, coupled with his extensive of QinetiQ.
Previously Sir John was UK Managing Continental Europe.
During his eight years with experience of corporate governance and the Director of Sema Group plc and prior to that he Logica, Doug spent the period from 1995 to City and its institutions, significantly enhances was a director of CAP Group plc.
In 1979 he 2000 in the US in various management roles the operation of the Board, particularly in the founded and became Managing Director of CAP at its US subsidiary, including Chief Operating context of Sir Davids dual role of Deputy Scientific Ltd. After a degree at Cambridge in Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Chairman and Senior Independent NonMechanical Sciences, Sir Johns work experience Vice President, Telecoms Division.
included periods at General Motors and Scicon as an accountant with Price Waterhouse where, c Ltd, part of BP.
Sir John was formerly President as a senior audit manager, he focused on IT 5.
Nick Luff of the Institution of Engineering and Technology companies and stock exchange listed clients.
Non-executive Director and is currently Chairman of the Medical Doug is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Nick Luff 40 joined the Board of QinetiQ Research Council.
He is also a Fellow of the Accountants in England and Wales.
in June 2004 and serves as an independent Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Non-executive Director.
Nick was appointed a b d Aeronautical Society and the Institute of 4.
Sir David Lees Finance Director of Centrica plc in March 2007, Physics.
The Board considers Sir Johns extensive Deputy Chairman Senior Independent having previously served as CFO of the P&O knowledge of Defence and Security Technology Non-executive Director Group.
He trained as a chartered accountant markets, and his unrivalled experience of Sir David Lees 70 joined the Board of QinetiQ with KPMG and is a member of the Institute QinetiQs business gained whilst Chief Executive in August 2005.
Sir David is currently Chairman of Chartered Accountants in England and Officer, to be a valuable asset to the Board in of Tate & Lyle plc.
He has also been a member Wales.
Nick joined P&O in 1991 and held terms of decision-making and understanding of the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers since various finance roles before joining the board the strategic issues affecting the Group.
Sir David joined GKN plc in 1970 and as Finance Director in 1999.
In October 2000 he became Group Finance Director in 1982.
He was became Chief Financial Officer of P&O Princess a 2.
Graham Love appointed Group Managing Director in 1987, Cruises plc on its demerger from the P&O Chief Executive Officer Executive Director and Chairman and Chief Executive in 1988 Group and returned as Chief Financial Officer Graham Love 53 is the Chief Executive Officer before becoming Non-executive Chairman in of P&O in May 2003.
Nick has also served as of QinetiQ, having previously been Chief 1997 until his retirement in May 2004.
Other a Non-executive Director on the board of Financial Officer.
Prior to rejoining DERA in notable roles include being a member of the Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV, the Dutch-listed 2001, he was Chief Executive of Comax Secure National Defence Industries Council between international container shipping company.
Business Services Ltd, leading it through its 1995 and 2004, Chairman of Courtaulds plc The Board considers that Nicks experience privatisation in 1997 before its sale to Amey plc from 1996 to 1998, a Non-executive Director of operating as Chief Financial Officer Finance in 1999.
Before that, Graham was Finance of the Bank of England between 1991 and 1999 Director with P&O and Centrica, coupled with Director of DERA from 1992 to 1996.
After and Chairman of the CBI Economic Affairs his extensive exposure to a variety of industrial a degree in English at Cambridge, his career Committee from 1988 until 1994, as well as sectors, provides the rigorous financial and included management roles with Ernst & being a member of the CBI Presidents commercial scrutiny required of a FTSE-listed Young, KPMG and Shandwick plc, as well as Committee from 1988 to 1996.
From 2001 company at the Board level, particularly in several years in international consulting.
to 2006, he was Non-executive Joint Deputy the context of his role as Chairman of the He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Chairman of Brambles Industries plc and Audit Committee.
Accountants in England and Wales.
834 7 5 QinetiQ Group plc 41 a Member of Compliance Committee Annual Report 2007 b Member of Nomination Committee c Member of Audit Committee d Member of Remuneration Committee Chair of Committee b c d 6.
Dr Peter Fellner and was a member of the Executive Order of Merit First Class, the first American Non-executive Director Committee.
Prior to her appointment as First to receive this honour.
The Board considers Dr Peter Fellner 63 joined the Board of Vice President, Noreen was firm-wide head of that Georges unparalleled exposure to QinetiQ in September 2004.
Peter is Executive Risk Management.
She joined the EBRD in 1992 Defence, Security and Intelligence communities Chairman of Vernalis plc, and is also Chairman to establish its syndications functions.
Before worldwide, coupled with his extensive of Acambis plc, and the privately held joining the EBRD, Noreen had a distinguished understanding of the working of Government, biotechnology company, Astex Therapeutics career at Bankers Trust Company now particularly in the US, significantly enhances the Limited.
In addition, he serves as a Director of Deutsche Bank in corporate finance and operation of the Board as QinetiQ continues to two European biotechnology companies, UCB leveraged financing with a concentration in oil, pursue its strategy of growing its US platform SA and Evotec AG and is also a Director of gas and mining.
Noreen has a BA from the in the Defence and Security Technology domain.
Bespak plc and Isis Innovation Limited.
He is College of Mount Saint Vincent, Riverdale, a also a member of the Medical Research Council.
New York and an MBA from Tuck School at 9.
Colin Balmer Peter previously served as Chairman of Celltech Dartmouth College.
The Board considers that Non-executive Director Group plc from 2003 to July 2004, having been Noreens extensive international business Colin Balmer 60 was appointed to the Board Chief Executive Officer from 1990 onwards.
experience, particularly in the areas of corporate of QinetiQ in February 2003.
He served as Before joining Celltech, he was Chief Executive finance, risk management and banking, to be Managing Director of the Cabinet Office from of Roche UK from 1986 to 1990, having of significant benefit to the Board as QinetiQ 2003 until his retirement in 2006.
Previously, previously been a Director of Roche UK continues its strategy of developing new Colin was Finance Director of the MOD, with Research Centre.
The Board considers that business opportunities outside its traditional responsibility for QinetiQs privatisation and Peters detailed understanding of the UK market, particularly in North America.
the subsequent investment by Carlyle as part commercialisation of innovative technologies, of the PPP Transaction.
He has extensive and his experience of bringing high technology 8.
George Tenet experience across the MOD including periods businesses to the public markets, are a valuable Non-executive Director as Private Secretary of two Ministers for asset to the Board in terms of the development George Tenet 54 was appointed to the Board Defence Procurement, a secondment to the of QinetiQs portfolio of leading technologies of QinetiQ in October 2006 and serves as an UK Delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty and the evolution of QinetiQs remuneration independent Non-executive Director.
Having Organisation NATO and as a Minister for policies, particularly in the context of his role been sworn into office in July 1997, George Defence Materiel in Washington DC, United as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
was one of the longest serving directors of the States.
Colin was formerly a member of the US Central Intelligence Agency CIA, a position Independent Financial Reporting Advisory c d 7.
Noreen Doyle he held until his resignation in 2004.
George Board and the Advisory Council of Partnerships Non-executive Director is Board Director of Granahan McCourt UK and is currently a member of the Foreign Noreen Doyle 58 was appointed to the Board Acquisition Corp, Guidance Software Inc. and and Commonwealth Offices Audit and Risk of QinetiQ in October 2005 and serves as an L-1 Identity Solutions, sits on the advisory board Committee and is on the Board of the Royal independent Non-executive Director.
She also of The Analysis Corporation and is a professor Mint, chairing their Audit Committee.
The sits on the Board and Risk Committee of Credit at Georgetown University in Washington DC.
Board considers that Colins extensive Suisse Group Zurich and is a Non-executive Prior to his directorship of the CIA, he held knowledge of the development of QinetiQ Director of Newmont Mining Corporation various roles in federal government, including throughout its public-private partnership, and Denver and Rexam PLC.
In August 2005, staff director of the Senate Committee on his in depth understanding of the working of Noreen completed her four-year term as First Intelligence.
A holder of the Presidential Medal Government, particularly the UK MOD, Vice President of the European Bank for of Freedom, the USs highest civilian honour, provides the Board with a unique insight into Reconstruction and Development EBRD, where George has also been awarded with numerous the issues facing Government in delivering its she chaired the EBRDs Operations Committee foreign decorations, including the Egyptian procurement objectives and partnering with industry suppliers.
