QinetiQ Group plc 57 Annual Report 2007 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial Principal financial instrument risks and uncertainties statements for the year to 31 March 2007.
The Groups principal risks in relation to the use of financial instruments arise on contracting with customers in foreign Principal activity currencies and through the use of interest rate swaps and caps to The Groups principal activity is the supply of scientific and technical manage interest rate exposure on the Groups borrowings.
detailed description of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and policies related to the use of financial instruments is contained Business review in the Business Review on pages 20 to 39.
The profit of the Group before tax was 89.3m 2006: 72.5m.
Directors and Directors interests A description of the Groups performance during the year and The Directors in office at the date of this report and details of the the likely future developments is contained in the reports of the Board Committees on which they sit are detailed on pages 40 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on pages 2 to 6 and in 41.
The dates of Director appointments can be found on page 54. the Business Review on pages 20 to 39.
Details of the Directors emoluments and interests are shown in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 50 to 56.
Principal risks and uncertainties A description of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties is Employees contained in the Business Review on pages 22 to 23.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer, upholds the principles of the UK Employment Services Two Ticks symbol and Principal changes to the Group is accredited by Investors in People.
Every possible consideration The Group made a number of acquisitions and disposals in the year is given to applications for employment, regardless of gender, which are disclosed in detail in note 13 on pages 80 to 81. religion, disability or ethnic origin, having regard only to skills and Research and development competencies.
This policy is extended to existing employees and any One of the Groups principal business streams is the provision of change which may affect their personal circumstances.
The policy is funded research and development for customers.
The Group also supported by strategies for professional and career development.
invests in the commercialisation of promising technologies across QinetiQ seeks to utilise a range of communication channels all areas of business.
Further description of the Groups research to employees in order to involve them in the running of the and development activity is contained in the Business Review on organisation.
This is done using various media including pages 20 to 39. in-house magazines, intranet, regular newsletters, bulletins, Proposed dividend management briefings, trade union consultation and widespread The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 2.45p training programmes.
During the year the Group paid an Environment interim dividend of 1.2p per share 2006: nil.
During the prior year Details of the Groups policy and practice in relation to the the Group paid a preference share dividend of 8.9m on the environment is detailed in the Corporate Responsibility report, redemption of the outstanding Cumulative Preference Shares.
contained in the Business Review on pages 37 to 39.
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers Political and charitable contributions The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment prior to The Groups policy is not to make political contributions.
commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms Donations during the year to UK charities amounted to 19,000 based on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
2007 the trade creditors of the Group represented 31 days of annual purchases 2006: 31 days.
Corporate Governance The Companys application of the principles of good governance in respect of the Combined Code, as revised by the Financial Reporting Council June 2006, is described in the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 42 to 49.
QinetiQ Group plc 58 Annual Report 2007 Report of the Directors continued Share Capital The parent company financial statements are required by law At 31 May 2007 being the latest practicable date prior to the to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent issuance of this report the Group had been notified of the company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company following shareholdings of at least 3% in the ordinary share financial statements, the Directors are required: capital of the Group: to select suitable accounting policies and then apply UK Ministry of Defence 18.9% them consistently: Lansdowne Partners Ltd 9.1% to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable BlackRock, Inc. 6.0% and prudent: Fidelity International Ltd 5.2% Allianz SE 3.1% to state for the Group financial statements, whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and Post balance sheet event On 16 April 2007 the Group completed the acquisition of to state for the parent company financial statements, whether Washington based ITS Corporation through its subsidiary QinetiQ applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject North America Operations LLC for an initial cash consideration to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent of 40.8m $80.0m.
On 23 April 2007 the Group announced company financial statements.
the agreement to purchase Applied Perception, Inc. and Automatika, Inc. both providers of robotics technologies, The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records for up to 4.7m $9.2m each.
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its Statement of disclosure of information to auditors financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably directors report confirmed that, so far as the Directors are aware, open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys and detect fraud and other irregularities.
auditors are unaware, and the Directors have taken all the steps they reasonably ought to have taken as Directors to make Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with the law and those regulations.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the corporate and financial information included on the Companys the Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and with applicable law and regulations.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other judisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Annual General Meeting law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to 26 July 2007. prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
By order of the Board The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant Lynton Boardman part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view Company Secretary are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
