QinetiQ Group plc 08 Annual Report 2007 Technologies that transform Our background in defence research allows us to provide our customers with technology that is beyond the reach of most commercial organisations.
By applying technology weve already researched and developed to new areas, we create solutions that solve dif cult problems.
Our customers access leading-edge technologies while we optimise the brilliant solutions we develop.
LAST Armor: protecting people $10 million sub contract Providing our US armour expertise to the UK MOD by giving Mastiff Protected Patrol Vehicles further protection, we are helping to safeguard a generation of military personnel.
LAST Armor uses a clever high strength Velcro to provide quick and easy application.
Creative applications High ying technology The solar-powered wings of Zephyr, our unmanned aerial vehicle, are so light the aircraft is designed to y at high altitudes for months.
This will revolutionise real-time data communications and persistent observation, making it useful for a range of military and humanitarian purposes.
So simple, so smart Our Omni-ID tagging solution pushes the boundaries of radio frequency identi cation RFID technology.
Using an RFID structure that works anywhere, it makes monitoring assets simpler and brings mass market product tagging one step closer.
99.99% accurate QinetiQ Group plc 10 Annual Report 2007 Managing complex We have an impressive track record for projects managing technology-rich, complex long-term projects for a wide range of customers, particularly the MOD.
Our customers trust us to look after their interests and use technology to improve their performance and productivity.
We work hard to build and maintain these valuable relationships which allow our customers to concentrate on critical areas of their business and help us build lasting revenue streams.
Delivering peace of mind to the MOD We provide testing, evaluation and training to the MOD to help it establish the safe operational performance of defence platforms and weapons through a 25-year Long-Term Partnering Agreement.
Flight control system Our experts provide technical advice to the MOD on the ight control system of the aircraft.
Long-term partnerships Growing business with customers We continue our work with the US Treasury Department under a twoyear contract supporting the Internal Revenue Service IRS with IT operations and maintenance services, including the redesign of the chief counsels intranet.
This follow-on contract is the latest in a long-term relationship with the Department spanning eight years.
Secured revenue Our experience of aerial target programmes led to a 20-year contract with the MOD to supply a Combined Aerial Targets Service CATS.
The service 308m contract will meet all of the MODs aerial target over 20 years requirements worldwide.
We have supported the MOD in the evolution of the Euro ghter Safety Decisions on the safe Typhoon since its conception operation of the aircraft are made using the unique 20 years ago, using our skills in knowledge and experience Human factors provided by the QinetiQ a number of areas.
Supporting the MOD to deliver support team.
crew protection and performance, including veri cation and testing of the Aircrew Equipment Assemblies, life support and crew escape systems in partnership with BAE Systems.
QinetiQ Group plc 12 Annual Report 2007 The worlds best We recruit and retain some of the worlds best minds.
minds Each new company we acquire adds to this pool of talent.
We provide an environment in which expertise can ourish by putting together teams brimming with scienti c and intellectual talent.
They relish the challenge of nding imaginative ways to resolve the important problems facing our customers.
Bright minds, brilliant solutions Employees from across QinetiQ worked together to design the next generation of bomb disposal robots in the MOD CUTLASS tapping into programme.
They are now supporting the production of the vehicles, which will be used 30 years of for anti-terrorism operations worldwide.
The project drew on knowledge and experience experience gained through 30 years of research and development in robotics.
Left: Peter Horsted, CUTLASS Programme Manager Right: Jane Phillips, Business Development Manager Dave Grif n Senior Flight Control Engineer Dave Grif n of Analex plays a pivotal role in analysing NASAs Launch Service Program.
Known for his versatility and dedication to excellence, Daves expertise helps solve highly complex problems like the Delta II Heavy ight anomaly.
Since we acquired Analex, hes now a valuable addition to our team.
Talented people Elaine Baxter Our employees regularly win awards for the advances they make in their elds.
Like Elaine Baxter, from our space division, recently recognised in the Institute of Physics Early Career Woman Physicist of the Year award, for her outstanding achievements with our TopSat micro-satellite.
Left: Elaine Baxter, TopSat Operations Manager QinetiQ Group plc 14 Annual Report 2007 At the forefront of innovation Over many years we have built a reputation as an intellectual powerhouse in remote controlled technologies.
We have developed unmanned vehicles for use on land, at sea and in the air.
Our defence customers bene t from this expertise, allowing their personnel to undertake dangerous work from a safe distance.
Increasingly we are helping our commercial customers see ways to exploit the potential of these technologies in new settings.
Quick thinking In just 11 months our experts adapted REMUS, an unmanned above water vehicle, to meet an urgent operational requirement from the MOD.
Designed to clear mines in the shallow waters of the Umm Qasr waterway in Iraq, the vehicle has now been accepted into general service by the Royal Navy.
Seeing clearly underwater Our synthetic aperture sonar enables Blue n unmanned underwater vehicles to provide high resolution sea bed images in a system that delivers mine countermeasures to the US Navy.
high resolution survey data Remote controlled technologies Bringing together technologies In a major co-investment programme with other defence industry experts, QinetiQ is developing communications and autonomy for a world-class unmanned aerial vehicle technology demonstrator.
Project Taranis, led by BAE Systems, will show how integrated systems can deliver battle-winning capabilities to the MOD.
The future of autonomous ight QinetiQ recently delivered a world first, with a successful demonstration of a single pilot ying his aircraft, while simultaneously controlling four unmanned aerial vehicles.
This work for the MOD demonstrates that autonomous vehicles are a realistic option for future aeronautical operations.
QinetiQ Group plc 16 Annual Report 2007 Working in partnership is fundamental to the way Working in we do business.
Building and maintaining strong relationships in the UK and North America is vital to understanding and meeting our customers needs.
partnership When we work on collaborative projects, we combine our skills and technologies with other companies large and small.
We provide a link between the academic and commercial worlds, bridging the gap between research and reality.
Putting collaboration to the test Working with Carson Helicopters to modify its helicopter blades, our engineers carried out a test programme to examine aircraft handling, Collaboration performance and vibration characteristics.
Early results on a Sea King ight showed signi cant performance improvements.
This is thought to be the most signi cant modi cation made to a helicopter in the UK by a non aircraft manufacturer.
tests show 2,000lb increase in hover capability Working with leading minds We work with several partner universities, taking an active role in furthering research and development to push the boundaries of science.
As a result, were able to capitalise on developing the innovations that come out of our young talent collective research and development.
Pressing the advantage QinetiQ is working with Advantage West Midlands on a new multi-million pound project to help businesses develop and integrate innovative solutions using advanced sensor technologies.
QinetiQ Group plc 18 Annual Report 2007 Tackling societys biggest problems Our technologies are helping to deal with some of the biggest problems facing society, like climate change.
Increasingly, we help customers to improve their environmental performance, and evaluate and develop new energy and transport technologies.
Cleaning up ships Studies for the future We are installing a pyrolysis unit We conducted a study on marine on HMS Ocean to enable the thermal noise for the Scottish Executive as part destruction of all mixed waste streams, of its Strategic Environmental Assessment generating lower emissions than of marine renewable energy devices conventional incineration.
This will wave and tidal off the coast of Scotland.
help the Royal Navy to meet its The findings helped the customer environmental obligations.
to make an informed choice about technology development.
Sustainable solutions Fuelling the future QinetiQ has been investigating the key issues affecting the environment and sustainability of the UK militarys use of fuels by looking at future and alternative fuels.
This will also involve a demonstration of a military vehicle running on biodiesel derived from used cooking oil.
Clearing our skies We are a major participant in the UK Integrated Wing research project led by Airbus.
This project will make an important contribution to airlines meeting targets for reduced fuel burn and CO emissions by 2020.
2 Supporting renewable energy We have successfully licensed our ZephIR laser anemometer technology to Natural Power, a leading consultant to the international renewable energy industry.
The agreement allows the company to manufacture and market QinetiQs laser anemometer technology in the wind energy market.
