14 Management Tania fide Welzim Group financial controller Tania is a chartered accountant with ten years experience in finance including eight years in the mining industry.
Is responsible for financial reporting in the group as well as internal control procedures.
Luiz Correia David Haddon Operations manager General counsel and secretary A metallurgist with 21 years experience in the gold mining industry, he has a BSc Eng as well as a BCom degree.
He Qualified as an attorney in joined Randgold Resources in 2005 and in 2006 was appointed 1984.
He has overseen the operations manager responsible for the mining, planning, administrative obligations of processing, maintenance and engineering functions at Loulo.
Randgold Resources since its incorporation and assumed secretarial responsibility when it listed on the London Stock Paul Harbidge Exchange in July 1997.
He Group exploration manager is a director of Seven Bridges Trading and other group Geologist with over 15 years subsidiaries.
experience, mainly in West Africa, having previously worked for Rio Tinto, Anglo American and Ashanti.
Joined Randgold Resources in 2000 and was appointed group exploration manager in 2004.
Bill Houston Human resources executive Has a masters degree in human resources management and 26 years experience in human resources and organisational development.
Joined Randgold in 1992 as group training and development manager, and headed the group human resources function from 1996.
He is a director of Morila SA and Seven Bridges Trading.
Amadou Konta General manager - Loulo Has a degree in civil engineering as well as several management and project management qualifications.
Was appointed mine foreman and superintendent at Syama mine by BHP and served as mining manager from 1997.
In 2001, was promoted to construction manager for Randgold Resources in Mali and to Loulo general manager in 2004.
14 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 Victor Matfield Group corporate finance manager A chartered accountant, he was appointed corporate finance manager in 2001.
Prior to that, served as financial manager of the Syama mine and as financial manager of the Morila project.
He is a director of Seven Bridges Trading.
Chris Prinsloo Group financial and commercial manager Qualified as a chartered secretary and has 35 years experience in the mining industry including finance, capital projects, administration and supply chain management.
Appointed as commercial manager for the Randgold Group in 1993, financial director of Somisy SA in 2000 and group financial and commercial manager in 2002, responsible for group accounting, supply chain management plus the risk management and insurance portfolio.
Currently serves on the boards of Morila SA, Somilo SA and Kankou Moussa SARL.
Rod Quick Group general manager - project development and evaluation A geologist with 14 years experience in the gold mining industry, he joined Randgold Resources in 1996.
Rod has been involved in the exploration, evaluation and production phases of the Adrian Reynolds Morila, Loulo and Tongon deposits and was appointed Group general manager - technical Somilo resource manager in 2005.
He is now responsible Has 26 years experience in the mining industry and was part for all project development of the team that developed the original Randgold Resources and evaluation.
His key responsibilities are technical oversight of the companys operations including compilation of feasibility studies, audits, compliance and evaluation opportunities.
He is a director of Morila SA and Somilo SA.
Mahamadou Samak General manager - Mali A professor of company law at the University of Mali, Mahamadou was instrumental in writing the Malian labour legislation.
He is the resident executive manager in Mali and is responsible for government liaison and legal counsel for the Francophone region.
Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 15 Ngolo Sanogo Financial controller - Mali Has a masters degree in economics from the National School of Administration of Bamako as well as several management, accounting and financial qualifications.
Qualified as an auditor in 1992 before joining BHP Mali in 1995.
Appointed material manager in 1998 and management accountant in 2001 at the Syama mine.
Following the sale of Somisy SA in 2004 was appointed Randgold Resources Mali financial controller.
John Steele Group general manager - capital projects Gained extensive metallurgical and management experience in 17 years with Rand Mines and Randgold & Exploration.
Upon acquisition of Syama in 1996, was appointed a director of the Malian company, Somisy SA, and general manager of the mine.
In 1998, assumed position of group general manager capital projects, overseeing construction of the Morila and Loulo mines.
Lois Wark Samba Toure Group corporate General manager - Morila communications and cartography manager Has a masters degree in chemical engineering and geochemistry and was part of the team that set up Malis first research laboratory for the mining and petroleum industries in 1985.
As country A member of the Randgold manager for BHP Minerals, oversaw that companys exploration programmes in West Africa.
Resources team since its Joined Morila in 2000 and was promoted to operations manager in 2004 and to general manager inception, Lois in 2007. responsibilities include the coordination of the groups communication and investor relations programme, the production of materials and presentations to the market, as well as the management and integration of data captured in GIS, databases and various other software packages.
Lois is also responsible for the management of Seven Bridges, the groups South African subsidiary.
16 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 CEO CEO CEOs r s r s review eview eview Tahirou Ballo Mining manager surface operations, Loulo Malian mining economist engineer Tahirou was educated at the Mining Institute of Leningrad and started his career with a Russian exploration company in his home country.
Started with Randgold Resources as a drill and blast supervisor at Syama in 1997, was appointed mining production superintendent at Loulo in 2006 and is now the mining manager of surface operations there.
I get a lot of motivation from the other members of the team and in turn I work hard to ensure good communication between us and to help build the team spirit.
That way we all stay focused on delivering value to the stakeholders.
Onno ten Brinke Chief mine planning engineer Mining engineer Onno was educated at the University of Technology in Delft and at the Royal School of Mines in London.
Joined Randgold Resources as chief mine planning engineer in 2004 and in 2007 was also made responsible for the survey team at Loulo.
My main aim is to produce mine plans that allow for short term flexibility, are practical and integrate the groups strategic plan - and then to ensure that they are communicated effectively to the teams.
