12 Directors Philippe Litard D Mark Bristow Graham Shuttleworth Chairman Chief executive officer Financial director Managing director of the Global Natural Mark is a geologist with more than 25 years Graham joined Randgold Resources as Resources Fund from 2000 to 2003. experience in the mining industry and holds chief financial officer and financial director Prior to July 2000, he was director of the a PhD in Geology from Natal University.
In on 1 July 2007 but has been associated Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the August 1995, he was appointed a director with the company since its inception, initially International Finance Corporation.
His and subsequently chief executive of as part of its management team, involved in experience in corporate and project finance Randgold Resources where he has been listing the company on the LSE in 1997, with UBS, IFC and the World Bank extends instrumental in developing the company into and subsequently as an advisor.
A chartered over 30 years, most of them in the minerals a gold-focused mining and exploration accountant, he was a managing director business and in Africa.
Now an independent business with a market cap of more than and the New York-based head of metals consultant and a promoter of mining and US$3.5 billion and a strong investor following.
and mining for the Americas in the global energy investments.
Appointed a director He has also played a significant role in investment banking division of HSBC before in February 1998 and chairman in November encouraging the emergence of the mining taking up his new position at Randgold 2004. sector in the West African sub region where Resources.
At HSBC he led or was involved Randgold Resources has found and in a wide range of major mining industry developed world class assets and forged transactions, including Randgold Resources productive partnerships.
He is currently a Nasdaq listing, its bid for Ashanti Goldfields non-executive director of Rockwell and its 2005 US$110 million equity offering.
Resources International and previously held board positions at African Platinum, Harmony Gold Mining Company, Durban Roodepoort Deep and Randgold & Exploration.
12 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 Chairman of the audit committee Member of the audit committee Chairman of the remuneration committee Member of the remuneration committee Chairman of the governance and nomination committee Member of the governance and nomination committee Bernard H Asher Robert I Israel Karl Voltaire Senior independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive From 1986 to 1998, he was an executive Until April 2000, a managing director of Dr Karl Voltaire is a graduate in mineral director of HSBC Holdings plc and chairman Schroder & Co Inc of New York and head resources engineering from the Ecole des of the HSBC Holdings subsidiary, HSBC of its energy department.
Is now partner at Mines in Paris and holds an MBA and a PhD Investment Bank plc.
Was chairman of Compass Advisers, LLP.
His experience in in Economics and Finance from the University Lonrho Africa plc, vice chairman of the Court corporate finance, especially the natural of Chicago.
He started his career as a of Governors of the London School of resources sector, extends over 27 years.
mining engineer in Haiti and subsequently Economics and of the Legal & General Group Was appointed a director in 1997. spent 23 years in the World Bank Group in plc and a director of Morgan Sindall plc.
Washington DC, the bulk of it at the He is chairman of Lion Trust Asset International Finance Corporation IFC where Aubrey L Paverd Management and senior independent his last position was that of director of global Independent non-executive director of Morgan Sindall.
Subsequently, was director Dr Aubrey Paverd was appointed to the director of Randgold Resources in 1997 and of the Office of the President at the African board in 1995.
He holds an MSc degree senior independent director in 2003.
Since early 2005, has from Rhodes University, South Africa and been CEO of the Nelson Mandela Institution.
a PhD from James Cook University, Norborne P Cole, Jr Queensland, Australia and brings more than Independent non-executive 40 years of international geological Norb Cole started working for the Cocaexperience to the board.
Served as vice Cola Company as a field representative in president of exploration for Newmont in USA the USA in 1966 and advanced steadily and from 1994 to 1999, was the group through the organisation, becoming chief executive exploration at North Limited in executive of Coca-Cola Amatil in Australia Australia.
Is now an independent consultant in 1994, a position he held until 1998.
Under and a non-executive director of Compania his leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil was built fide Minas Buenaventura.
into the second largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world.
Now based in San Antonio, Texas, he serves on the boards of a number of US From left to right: Philippe Litard, D Mark Bristow, Graham Shuttleworth, Bernard H Asher, companies.
Robert I Israel, Norborne P Cole Jr, Aubrey L Paverd and Karl Voltaire.
