A report on changes in market dynamics, regulation and societal attitudes towards gambling in Great Britain The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 9 Directors Report: Business Review The state of play: market overview A report on changes to market dynamics, regulations and societal attitudes towards gambling in Great Britain Betting and gambling remain highly popular, Gambling activities in Great Britain culturally ingrained and economically important % of adult population leisure activities in Great Britain.
For more than 40 years, the nation has 68 benefited from the existence of a commercial, 57 well-regulated and highly taxed mainstream In 2007, more than two-thirds of adults in Britain gambling industry.
Over that period, the participated in at least one form of gambling.
regulations that define the legal parameters of While on the face of it this statistic represents a gambling have changed, largely for the benefit slight decline compared with the previous survey 20 17 of the industry and society at large.
Despite in 1999, it masks a change in the pattern of 14 12 7 this gradual regulatory progression, the 6 6 gambling expenditure and the resultant growth 5 4 3 3 implementation of the Gambling Act 2005 in in the economic signicance of the market.
ABC D E F G H I J KL M September 2007 represented a shift in the Overall participation remains steady landscape of gambling in Great Britain.
A Total H Sports betting The British Gambling Prevalence Survey, published B National Lottery I On-line gambling Although controversy has surrounded the in September 2007, reported that 32 million adults C Scratchcards J Dog races Gambling Act, it is difficult to contend that its D Horse races K Casino in Britain 68% of the adult population gamble.
E Slot machines L FOBTs aims to keep crime out, to ensure fairness and Although this represents a modest decline against F Private lotteries M Football pools to protect children and other vulnerable people G Bingo the 72% recorded in 1999, the drop was due to a excludes betting on horse racing and dog racing are not desirable.
A major overhaul of Britains reduction in players of the National Lottery, lottery gambling laws was necessary to accommodate scratchcards and football pools.
The British Gambling Prevalence Survey, changes in technology and shifting societal views.
published in September 2007, revealed The major areas of growth between 1999 and 2007 that 68% of British adults gamble.
Media opposition to the Gambling Act and in were two new products betting and gaming Source: British Gambling Prevalence Survey 2007 particular the creation of a new breed of super websites played by 6% of the adult population casinos has resulted in a period of volatility for and Fixed Odds Betting Terminals FOBTs in licensed the gambling industry.
It remains to be seen betting ofces 4%, neither of which featured in the UK gambling revenues bn whether this will prove to be another of the short 1999 survey.
There was an increase in participation periods of regression that have punctuated the in casino gaming up from 3% to 4% while the 11.3 10.9 10.7 10.4 general progress of gambling in Great Britain in usage of bingo clubs remained steady at 7% 9.7 9.7 9.7 9.9 modern times.
8.5 7.6 In December 2007, the Gambling Commission published a separate report on the prevalence of remote gambling the use of the internet, mobile phone or interactive television to gamble.
The report revealed that the National Lottery is the most popular form of on-line gambling, followed by sports betting, poker, casino and bingo.
Interestingly, while Source: Keynote Research, October 2007 the penetration of on-line poker in Great Britain E - Estimates F - Forecasts declined and casino games remained static, sports betting and bingo both achieved strong growth Top ten gambling companies compared with 2006. by UK revenue Revenue m Year ending Men between the ages of 18 and 34 remain the most Gala Coral 1,268 Sept 2007 likely to participate in remote gambling and while the Ladbrokes 1,125 Dec 2007 personal computer remains the most common means William Hill 940 Dec 2007 of gambling remotely, the use of mobile phone Camelot 583 Mar 2007 technology for gambling has grown strongly.
Rank Group 489 Dec 2007 The popularity of remote gambling would appear to be Tote 218 Mar 2007 set for further growth as technological developments Genting Stanley 193 Apr 2006 expand the range of gaming and betting opportunities Betfred 133Apr 2007 and as broadband penetration increases.
PartyGaming 118 Dec 2006 Betfair 113 Apr 2007 Not all the companies provide geographical breakdowns of revenue.
Figures quoted above may include a small amount of non-UK revenues.
Source: Company research 10 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007E 2008F 2009F 2010F 2011F Sustained growth in value of market In 2007, the shift in the constitution of the gambling Number of bingo clubs operating in In terms of revenue, the gambling sector of the sector in Britain continued with growth in the supply Great Britain to February 2008 leisure market has enjoyed sustained growth over of licensed betting ofces and decline for bingo clubs recent years.
Keynote Research estimated that in and adult gaming centres.
The number of casinos 699 696 688 678 657 644 2007, the British gambling market was worth operating increased only slightly, although there was 616 9.85bn calculated as amounts staked less winnings, substantial investment in enhancing the quality and having achieved compound annual growth of 5.2% scale of individual casinos.
Gambling now constitutes 16.4% of Bingo clubs British expenditure on leisure activities outside the The number of licensed bingo clubs operating in home, compared with 13.7% in 2002.
Great Britain dropped by 4.3% between February Keynote Research forecasts that the annual rate of 2007 and February 2008, due largely to the effects growth will slow to 3.5% over the next four years, of the smoking ban, adverse changes relating to Source: Gambling Commission company research with the value of the gambling market reaching the Gambling Act and the ongoing burden of 11.26bn in 2011. double taxation.
Britain is not simply a significant consumer market In February 2008, Gala Bingo and Mecca Bingo Bingo club operators in Great Britain for gambling, it is also a major investment market remained Britains largest bingo club operators, Operator February 2008 February 2007 for gambling companies.
At the end of 2007 there with 164 clubs and 103 clubs respectively.
Over the were 27 different betting and gaming companies previous 12 months, Mecca Bingo closed 11 clubs Gala Bingo 164 170 listed in London with a combined market and opened one while Gala Bingo closed eight and Mecca Bingo 103 113 capitalisation of 7.7bn.
In addition, there was a large number Top Ten Bingo 38 43 of closures of independently owned clubs.
The Bingo Carlton Clubs 16 17 A difficult year ahead for gambling?
Association has warned that unless bingo taxation is Riva Bingo 13 8 While a number of legislative uncertainties were harmonised with general betting duty, bingo club Buckingham Bingo 12 11 removed with the implementation of the Gambling closures will accelerate in the year ahead.
Others 270 282 Act in September 2007, the economic outlook Total 616 644 suggests that 2008 will be a difficult year.
The Ernst Casino Source: Gambling Commission company research & Young ITEM Club has predicted that growth in In February 2008 the number of casinos operating the UK gross domestic product will slow from 3.1% in Great Britain stood at 144, a modest increase in 2007 to 1.8% in 2008.
With rising cost pressures over the previous year.
There were eight new Number of casinos operating facing consumers, market commentators believe openings and three closures.
The new openings in Great Britain to February 2008 that conditions will become progressively tougher included two of the largest and most modern casinos for many companies in the Travel and Leisure sector ever seen in the UK, each developed by a US gaming 144 in 2008. group.
In May, Harrahs opened the Casino at the 140 138 138 Empire in Londons Leicester Square, while in July, On the other hand, Britains gambling companies will 131 Isle of Capri opened a major new casino in Coventry.
be hoping that a more settled and certain regulatory 126 In addition, Aspers, the Australian-backed company, 122 environment after the upheaval of the Gambling Act opened the largest casino in Wales, at Swansea in will allow them to focus more attention on their September 2007. operations in 2008.
In 2007, local licensing authorities dealt with a large number of new licence applications for casinos under Source: Gambling Commission company research the 1968 Gaming Act.
Of the 30 licence applications determined in 2007, nine were granted including two for Grosvenor Casinos and 21 were refused or Top ten casino markets in Great Britain withdrawn.
In February 2008 there were 38 nonby number of casinos operating licences in Great Britain and although a number of appeals are due to be heard in 2008, it February February 2008 2007 seems unlikely that this number will rise signicantly in the medium term.
London 26 0 25 1 Birmingham 7 1 7 1 Genting Stanley remains the largest casino company Manchester 6 2 6 1 in Britain with 46 operating casinos and an additional Glasgow 5 4 5 4 seven licences which are not currently operating.
Bristol 5 0 5 0 Ranks Grosvenor Casinos is the second largest Edinburgh 4 1 4 0 company, with 32 operating casinos and 13 nonLeeds 4 1 4 1 operating licences.
Nottingham 4 2 2 3 Liverpool 3 2 4 1 With 26 casinos, London remains the city with the Shefeld 3 2 3 1 highest number of casinos operating more than any other capital city in Europe, followed by Birmingham Non-operating licences shown in brackets Despite the breadth of the gambling market, Source: Gambling Commission company research and Manchester.
it remains dominated by a small number of companies, operating mainly in the bookmaking, During 2008 it is expected that at least five new bingo, gaming machine and casino sectors and casinos will be developed, including new openings in their on-line equivalents.
Aberdeen Rank, Leeds London Clubs and Glasgow London Clubs.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 11 2002 2002 2003 2003 2004 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 Directors Report: Business Review The state of play: market overview continued However, a number of smaller clubs which were Casino operators in Great Britain affected most dramatically by the 2007 rise in casino gaming duty are expected to close.
In February February Operator 2008 2007 January 2008, Gala Casinos was reported in the press to be considering the closure of three of its Genting Stanley 46 7 46 5 provincial casinos.
Grosvenor Casinos 32 13 33 10 Gala Casinos 30 1 30 1 Remote gambling Harrahs LCI 10 2 7 5 Remote gambling continues to be a highly A&S Leisure 6 0 6 0 competitive marketplace.
The prohibition of on-line Isle of Capri 3 1 2 2 gaming and betting in the USA via the Unlawful Aspers Aspinalls 3 1 2 2 Internet Gambling Enforcement Act late in 2006, Clockfair Ltd 2 0 2 0 has prompted operators to focus more heavily on Guoco 1 4 1 2 European and Asian countries.
Unlike many other Others 11 9 9 8 parts of Europe, remote gambling is legal in the UK.
The full implementation of the Gambling Act Total 144 38 138 35 The National Lottery operator, Camelot, remains the on 1 September 2007 was intended as the Non-operating licenses shown in brackets most popular on-line gambling company in the UK, culmination of the modernisation of Britains Source: Gambling Commission company research measured in terms of numbers of customers.
The Act replaced the 1968 Gaming leading operators in the interactive betting and Act and the Betting, Gaming and Lotteries Act gaming sector are a mix of traditional bookmakers, 1963, bringing almost all forms of gambling under Participation in remote gambling in including Ladbrokes, William Hill and Gala Coral and a single piece of legislation and subject to one Great Britain % of adult population specialist on-line operators, such as PartyGaming, regulator in the Gambling Commission only Betfair, 888 Holdings and Ranks Blue Square.
spread betting and the National Lottery remain 10 2006 outside the Commissions scope.
Yet what started The broader market other betting and gaming 9 2007 out as a necessary and modernising piece of 8 Licensed betting ofces legislation has become mired in controversy and 7 In 2007 there were an estimated 8,700 licensed even now, almost three years after its enactment 6 betting ofces operating in Britain.
Approximately and six months after its full implementation, the 5 two-thirds of the outlets were operated by the big 4 exact nature of some of the changes brought three of Ladbrokes 2,141, William Hill 2,208 and 3 about by the Gambling Act remain unclear.
The removal of the demand test 2 1 whereby a licence applicant needed to prove The Gambling Act and a new breed of casinos 0 unsatisfied local demand and the growing On 20 January 2007 the Casino Advisory Panel CAP profitability of B2 gaming machines formerly announced the prospective locations of 17 new classied as FOBTs has led to the entrance of generation casinos provided for within the Gambling a number of new operators to this market.
Under the terms of the Act these casinos Source: Gambling Commission categorised as eight Small, eight Large and one Adult gaming centres Regional or Super Casino were to be permitted In 2007 there were an estimated 950 adult gaming a broader range of gambling products including centres operating in Great Britain.
The abolition of sports betting and a signicantly greater allocation the Section 16 gaming terminal and the smoking of gaming machines than in existing British casinos.
ban are believed to have damaged the sector, which The CAPs announcement was expected to spark a is expected to experience a decline in 2008. phase of investment in large modern British casinos.
Instead, the progress of this facet of the Gambling Act has been characterised by controversy and political indecision.
Two events in the space of eight days in March 2007 destabilised Government policy on the new casinos.
On 21 March, Gordon Brown in his final Budget as Chancellor of the Exchequer, announced a sudden and substantial rise in casino gaming duty, prompting speculation that investment in some of the new casinos would no longer be viable.
One week later, on 28 March, the House of Lords defeated the Governments statutory instrument to confirm the CAPs choice of locations.
Meanwhile, the British Casino Association added its voice to the growing disquiet, claiming that the establishment of the new casinos would place existing casinos which are not permitted to offer sports betting and are restricted to just 20 gaming machines, regardless of scale or demand at a disadvantage.
The decision to locate 11 of the 17 12 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements All National Lottery Poker Betting Slots Other lotteries Casino Bingo Football pools licences in existing permitted areas the 53 local adult gaming centre operators alike reported significant Gambling Act 2005 authorities permitted to host casinos under the 1968 declines in revenue during the final quarter of 2007.
Act has been particularly contentious.
Although casinos also lost the ability to offer Section 21 terminals, the effect on revenues of this prohibition On 26 February 2008, the Secretary of State for has not been as great as in bingo clubs.
Culture Media and Sport, Andy Burnham MP, announced that the Government intended to press In March 2007, the Gambling Commission recorded ahead with the eight Large and eight Small casinos, that the highest concentrations of gaming machines but that the Regional casino licence, which had been were to be found in arcades adult gaming centres awarded to Manchester, would not proceed.
The and family entertainment centres and pubs, while Order for the 16 locations requires the approval of casinos and bingo clubs accounted for relatively both the House of Commons and the House of Lords small numbers of machines.
which had not been secured at time of publication.
It is anticipated that the next report from the In addition, the Department of Culture, Media and Gambling Commission will show machines growth The Gambling Act 2005 is an Sport has yet to issue guidelines for the licence in licensed betting ofces and regression in bingo important piece of modernising bidding process and a number of critical regulatory clubs, adult gaming centres and casinos.
However, its introduction questions including the precise basis for the has resulted in a number of negative allocation of gaming machines remain unanswered.
changes for operators of bingo clubs Advertising and casinos.
The Gambling Act relaxed a number of restrictions on the ability of gambling companies to advertise their services.
Locations of gaming machines Gambling companies may now advertise on television after the nine oclock watershed, although the Clubs Other National Lottery and bingo clubs may advertise at any Casinos Licensed betting time and sports betting advertising is permitted prior to 6 ofces Family the watershed if it accompanies sports programming.
9 31 entertainment centres Bingo clubs 9 In addition, casinos are now allowed to advertise % in newspapers and on radio, which hitherto had 13 been prohibited.
Adult gaming 28 centres Pubs Clear advertising guidelines have been established to encourage responsible attitudes towards gambling although these guidelines do not apply to the Bingo clubs and casinos account National Lottery.
It is hoped that in time, the ability to The attitude of society towards gambling has for a relatively small proportion of advertise in a responsible fashion will help the industry long been ambiguous.
Despite the fact that gaming machines in Great Britain.
to become more transparent and better understood.
the overwhelming majority of adults in Great As a consequence of the Gambling Britain gamble, society as a whole appears to Electronic gaming steps forward, steps backward Act, the number of gaming view the concept of gambling with something The reclassication of gaming machines and machines in bingo clubs and casinos approaching disapproval.
electronic gaming terminals under the Gambling is believed to have fallen, while the Act has created both winners and losers across the For the gambling industry in the 21st century, this number in licensed betting ofces gambling industr y. is a significant paradox.
If laws exist to define the is believed to have grown.
parameters of what society believes is acceptable and The clearest beneciary of the Gambling Act is the Source: Gambling Commission permissible, ambiguity between popular opinion and bookmaking sector, which gained legitimacy for its popular demand can have a distortive effect on the FOBTs now reclassied as B2 gaming machines.
The Gambling Act has allowed bookmakers to install up to four machines per outlet creating provision for Whether the media shapes or reects public opinion, as many as 35,000 B2 machines nationwide and to its influence on public policy is unquestionable.
The expand its range of games to incorporate virtual outpouring of moral indignation from certain quarters roulette, poker, blackjack and bingo.
During the final of the national press over the enactment and quarter of 2007, the major high street bookmakers subsequent implementation of the Gambling Act has reported significant growth in machines revenue arguably coloured political views on gambling reform related to these changes.
and affected the manner in which gambling regulations have been revised.
Adult gaming centres and bingo clubs are the two sectors that appear to have lost most from the The apparent willingness of the Government Gambling Acts revisions to electronic gaming.
The to bend to media pressure in watering down declassication of the 500 jackpot Section 16 and legislative reform at least one national newspaper Section 21 gaming terminals forced the removal of has claimed openly to have influenced gambling the two most popular electronic gaming products in policy in Britain is a worrying development for all adult gaming centres and bingo clubs respectively.
companies involved in the industry.
Across the bingo industry around 2,700 Section 21 terminals were declassied.
Both bingo operators and The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 13 Directors Report: Business Review The state of play: market overview continued The attitudes of the British public, the popular press In the long term, it is questionable whether the Problem gambling and Government are marked by ambiguity towards paradox that exists between the medias antipathy % of GamCare clients gambling.
Yet beneath the surface of newspaper towards gambling and its own deep-rooted financial headlines and political soundbites lies a far more interest is sustainable.
It is likely that any softening in 42.7 complex picture of double standards and vested the views of the popular press towards gambling interests.
This suggests that the industry may be businesses and casinos in particular would have a passing through one of the periods of volatility that positive effect on the framing of gambling regulations.
25.9 characteristically have punctuated the progress of Government switching horses?
The current British Government has led the long 11.4 11.0 Public opinion The Gambling Prevalence Study overdue and much needed overhaul of the nations 5.3 3.8 The British Gambling Prevalence Study 2007 gambling laws.
The Gambling Act, which received highlights the long-running contradiction in societys Royal Assent in April 2005, is the product of that ABC D E F attitude towards betting and games of chance: that process of modernisation.
while 68% of British adults gamble, 75% hold A Betting D Remote gambling However, there are suggestions that the Government B FOBTs E Casinos negative views on gambling.
C Fruit machines F Other has since undergone a radical transformation in its Differences of opinion about what constitutes approach to gambling reform.
Proponents of the includes scratch cards, poker and bingo gambling may lie at the heart of this apparent view that there is a reactionary spirit abroad in Source: GamCare Care Services Report 2006 contradiction.
A number of forms of gambling, Whitehall cite the shock rise in casino gaming duty Chart shows the prime mode of such as buying a National Lottery ticket or placing announced in March 2007, unattributed comments gambling cited by GamCares a bet on the Grand National, have become ingrained in the press from Westminster insiders and even the clients.
Contrary to popular in British culture and are actively promoted by the Presbyterian convictions of the Prime Ministers father.
belief, casinos account for a nations media.
Against this must be set the afrmative voting records disproportionately low level of By contrast, those forms of gambling that have on the Gambling Act of Gordon Brown and his entire problem gambling in Great Britain.
lower participation rates and which are less visible cabinet, the absence of any ofcial changes to policy in terms of advertising typically suffer from more and the value of gamblings substantial contribution to negative public perceptions.
At present, just 4% the British economy.
The object of the Governments of adults in Great Britain visit casinos.
The corollary stated policy remains the creation of a successful, of this is that 96% of people acquire their views of legitimate, responsible and well-regulated terrestrial casinos by indirect means, often through the media.
and remote gambling industry in Great Britain.
Yet if the public opinion towards gambling is mixed, Criticism of the Gambling Act both from supporters the views and interests of the media are more and opponents of gambling has been targeted at the complex still.
detail of the regulations that it has spawned.
Posterity will judge whether the Government has succeeded in The media moral opposition or vested interest?
creating a regulatory framework that allows gambling The hostile reception from many quarters of the laws to recognise and adapt to changes in technology national press to the Gambling Act sits uneasily with and to shift in sympathy with societal views.
the fact that in 2007 nearly all of Britains major news and media groups benefited nancially from the It has to be in the broader interests of society that the gambling activities of their readers and viewers.
Gambling Act is allowed to achieve its goals to keep crime out of gambling, to ensure fairness and to For years, most national newspapers have generated protect children and other vulnerable people.
In the substantial advertising revenues from bookmaking long term, heightened understanding of gamblings rms, something which the growth of on-line place in society will breed greater tolerance and better newspapers and on-line betting has helped to laws: more immediate reform is probably dependent increase.
However, in recent years the medias on the ability of the press to sustain a balancing act involvement in gambling has become more between commercial self-interest and a good story.
participative and in 2007 almost all of Britains national newspaper groups operated or licensed gambling websites generally domiciled outside the UK.
In spite of clear vested interests, the national press has, on balance, taken a dim editorial view of gambling and of casino gambling in particular.
It is possible that the prohibition of casino advertising to consumers only recently lifted has made the sector a soft target for the media.
It is certainly difficult to reconcile the negative image of casinos portrayed in the popular press with the reports from GamCare, the problem gambling charity, that just 5.3% of its clients cite casinos as a primary mode of gambling.
14 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements
