Directors Report: Governance Board of directors Name: Peter Johnson Name: Ian Burke Name: Bill Shannon Title: Chairman Title: Chief Executive Title: Non-Executive Director Appointment: January 2007 Appointment: March 2006 Appointment: April 2006 Age: 60 Age: 51 Age: 58 Committees: Finance, Nominations Committees: Finance, Nominations Committees: Audit, Nominations, Skills and experience: Chairman of Inchcape Skills and experience: Formerly chief executive Remuneration plc, having been group chief executive of Holmes Place Health and Fitness Limited, Skills and experience: Formerly executive from 1999 until 2005.
Previously sales and chief executive of Thistle Hotels plc and director of Whitbread PLC, chairman of the marketing director of the Rover Group, chief managing director of Gala Clubs, the bingo Gaucho Grill restaurant group and a nonexecutive of the Marshall Group and nonoperator.
Currently a director of Business in executive director of Matalan plc.
executive director of Wates Group Limited.
External appointments: Currently chairman External appointments: Currently chairman of of Aegon UK plc and The Grill Group.
Also a Inchcape plc, non-executive director of Bunzl non-executive director of Barratt Developments plc, and vice president of the Institute of the plc and an operating partner at Tri-Artisan Motor Industry.
Name: Peter Gill Name: Richard Greenhalgh Name: John Warren Title: Finance Director Title: Senior Independent Non-Executive Title: Non-Executive Director Appointment: July 2005 Director Appointment: January 2006 Age: 52 Appointment: July 2004 Age: 54 Committees: Finance Age: 63 Committees: Audit, Nominations, Skills and experience: Formerly group finance Committees: Nominations, Remuneration Remuneration director of Xansa plc and the chief financial Skills and experience: Formerly chairman Skills and experience: Formerly group finance officer of Penguin Group, the consumer of Unilever UK from 1998 until 2004. director of WH Smith PLC and United Biscuits book division of Pearson plc.
Peter is a External appointments: Currently chairman of plc and a non-executive director of RAC plc chartered accountant.
The Council for Industry and Higher Education, and Rexam plc.
CARE International UK, First Milk, and chairman External appointments: Currently holds of the UK advisory board of a US listed non-executive directorships at Bovis Homes outsourcing company, OPI.
Vice chairman of Group plc, BPP Holdings plc, Spectris Plc and the Qualications and Curriculum Authority.
28 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements Ranks executive committee assists the chief executive in directing and promoting the profitable operation and development of the Group.
Board committees Executive Committee Audit Committee Name: Ian Burke Name: Martin Belsham Chairman: John Warren Title: Chief Executive Title: Managing Director, Blue Square Members: Brendan ONeill, Bill Shannon Skills and experience: See opposite Age: 47 Responsibilities: The Audit Committee assists the Skills and experience: Joined Rank in 2003, when Name: Peter Gill Board in reviewing the effectiveness of internal the Group acquired Blue Square, the business Title: Finance Director control systems.
The Committee also reviews that he had founded four years earlier.
Previously, Skills and experience: See opposite financial statements to be published externally Martin was managing director of City Index and before their submission to the Board, in order to a director of ICAP.
Name: Pamela Coles ensure that they present a fair assessment of the Title: Company Secretary Name: Valentin Coruna Groups position and prospects.
It also authorises Age: 46 Title: Managing Director, Top Rank Espaa any change in accounting policies.
Skills and experience: Joined Rank as company Age: 54 secretary in November 2005.
She was formerly Finance Committee Skills and experience: Joined Rank to set up Top company secretary of RAC plc.
Chairman: Peter Johnson Rank Espaa in 1994.
Previous positions in the Members: Ian Burke, Peter Gill Spanish gaming industry include director of new Name: Alan Armstrong Responsibilities: The Finance Committee is an business with Cirsa.
Title: Compliance and Development Director executive committee to which certain specic Age: 53 Name: Peter McCann authorities have been delegated by the Board, Skills and experience: Appointed compliance and Title: Managing Director, Grosvenor Casinos principally in respect to capital expenditure development director in 1996, having previously Age: 55 authorisation and the nancing of the Group.
held positions in training, audit and compliance, Skills and experience: Joined Rank in 1980. licensing, security, health and safety, property Nominations Committee Worked in the UK gaming industry for more and development, legal and insurance and Chairman: Peter Johnson than 30 years, holding a variety of positions public affairs.
Members: Ian Burke, Richard Greenhalgh, within the bingo clubs and casinos sectors.
In Brendan ONeill, Bill Shannon, John Warren April 2006 he was appointed managing director Name: Julian Barker Responsibilities: The Nominations Committee of Grosvenor Casinos.
Title: Director of Strategy is responsible for identifying and nominating, Age: 36 Name: Simon Wykes for the approval of the Board, all new Board Skills and experience: Julian joined Rank in Title: Managing Director, Mecca Bingo appointments.
The Board believes that it is helpful February 2008 as director of strategy.
Previous Age: 40 for the chairman and the chief executive to be roles include director of strategy at Orange and Skills and experience: Appointed managing formally involved in this process and thus both of director of strategy and planning at Wanadoo.
director of Mecca Bingo in April 2006.
Previously them are members of the Committee, he held the positions of operations director and Name: Sue Waldock as are all of the non-executive directors.
regional director for Mecca Bingo.
Simon has Title: Human Resources Director Remuneration Committee also worked for Leisure Parcs, Gala Group in Age: 55 Chairman: Richard Greenhalgh bingo clubs and casinos and First Leisure.
Skills and experience: Appointed group human Members: Bill Shannon, John Warren resources director in 2006.
Previously she held Responsibilities: The Remuneration Committee is the position of human resources director for responsible for determining the remuneration Rank Group Gaming.
She is a fellow of the arrangements for the chairman, the executive Chartered Institute of Personnel Development directors and other members of the executive and chairman of the employment group for committee.
Business in Sport and Leisure Limited.
Details of Board committee meetings can be found in the corporate governance report on page 36.
Brendan ONeill served as a non-executive director throughout the year and retired from the Board on 31 December 2007.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 29
