Report of the Directors The Directors submit their first Annual close of business on 29 February 2008.
In the Share capital Report to the members of the Company, view of the Directors, the Groups likely future Details of changes to the ordinary shares with the audited financial statements for development will continue to centre on the main issued, shares held in Treasury, and of options the year ended 31 December 2007. product categories in which it now operates.
and awards granted during the year are set out in note 20 to the accounts.
Scheme of Arrangement Research and development In October 2007, pursuant to a Scheme of The Group continues to carry out research As described in the Chairmans Statement on Arrangement under s425 of the Companies Act and development in the search for new and page 1 a rolling share buy back programme has 1985, a new parent company was introduced improved products in all its categories and for continued throughout 2007.
Details of market which is called Reckitt Benckiser Group plc increased manufacturing efficiencies.
Direct purchases made, under the authorities given to Newco.
The previous parent company was expenditure on R&D in 2007 amounted to the Directors by shareholders at the Annual called Reckitt Benckiser plc Oldco.
General Meetings of Reckitt Benckiser plc held introduction of the Newco constituted a share on 4 May 2006 and 3 May 2007 and the Acquisitions and disposals capital reconstruction, whereby Oldco ordinary authority given to the Directors of Reckitt On 30 January 2008, following US regulatory shareholders exchanged their shares on a likeBenckiser Group plc on 4 September 2007 to clearance, the Group completed the acquisition for-like basis for shares in the Newco.
The make such purchases up to a maximum of of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. Newco has been accounted for using merger 72,000,000 shares, are given in note 20 on Adams.
The acquisition was financed by accounting principles.
The shares purchased may be held as the Group by cash on hand and existing credit reconstruction did not become effective until Treasury shares or cancelled, depending upon facilities.
Adams is exclusively focused on the October 2007, the financial statements of the best interests of the Company.
development, commercialisation and marketing Newco are presented as if the Newco and the of pharmaceuticals for the treatment of A resolution seeking to renew this authority will Oldco had always been part of the same group.
Adams is currently active in be put to shareholders at the Annual General Accordingly, the results of the Group for the the United States only and markets two brands: Meeting AGM on 1 May 2008. entire year ended 31 December 2007 are shown Mucinex, market leader in adult expectorants in the consolidated income statement and the Directors and Delsym, a leading cough suppressant.
comparative figures for the year ended 31 Information regarding the Directors of the December 2006 are also presented on this basis.
On 31 August 2007, following regulatory Company who were serving on 31 December clearances in Germany, the Group sold the 2007 and those serving at the date of this report Review of the activities and development Hermal prescription skincare business to is set out on page 11.
Further biographical of the Groups business Laboratorios Almirall S. A. for a consideration details of all Directors are available from the The principal activities continue to be the of 260 million in cash.
Hermal was acquired Companys website.
manufacture and sale of household and as part of the Boots Healthcare International healthcare products.
Directors to retire by rotation at the forthcoming BHI business in January 2006.
AGM are Adrian Bellamy, Graham Mackay and Audited results for the period are set out on pages Employees Bart Becht, who, being eligible, offer themselves 25 to 67.
The performance of the business is During 2007, the Group employed an average for re-election.
described in the Chairmans statement on page of 23,400 2006 21,900 people worldwide, 1, the Chief Executives Review on pages 2 and Peter White has served on the Board for more of whom 2,200 2006 2,100 were employed in 3 and the Business Review on pages 7 and 8. than nine years and is required to stand for rethe UK.
The Group is committed to the principle Within the Business Review, which appears on election on an annual basis.
Peter has decided of equal opportunity in employment: no pages 4 to 10, principal risk factors are given not to offer himself for re-election at the 2008 applicant or employee receives less favourable under Relationships and Principal Risks on AGM and will step down from the Board at the treatment on the grounds of nationality, age, pages 6 and 7, details of the key performance conclusion of that AGM.
The Group indicators KPIs are given on page 10 and recognises its responsibilities to disabled persons A statement of Directors interests in the share information on the likely future developments of and endeavours to assist them to make their full capital of the Company is shown in Table 1 at the Company under Company Prospects on contribution at work.
Where employees become the end of this report.
page 10. disabled, every practical effort is made to allow Details of Directors options to subscribe for The information referred to above fulfills the them to continue in their jobs or to provide shares in the Company are included in Table 2 requirements of the business review provisions retraining in suitable alternative work.
on page 22 in the audited part of the Directors of the Companies Act 1985 and is incorporated It is essential to the continued improvement Remuneration Report.
by reference into, and shall be deemed to form in efficiency and productivity throughout the part of, this report together with the other Details of the Directors service agreements are Group that each employee understands the information referred to in this Directors report.
Companys strategies, policies and procedures.
This Directors report has been drawn up and Corporate governance presented in accordance with, and in reliance Open and regular communication with The Company recognises the importance of high upon, applicable English company law and the employees at all levels is an essential part of the standards of corporate governance.
liabilities of the Directors in connection with this management process.
A continuing programme report shall be subject to the limitations and of training and development reinforces the It understands, supports and has applied the restrictions provided by such law.
Groups commitment to employee involvement.
principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as issued in July 2006, In July 2007, the Directors resolved to pay an The Board encourages employees to become and has complied with the great majority of the interim dividend of 25p per ordinary share 2006 shareholders and to participate in the Groups detailed provisions contained in the Code.
The dividend was paid on 27 September employee share ownership schemes, should they ways in which the Company applies these 2007.
The Directors are recommending a final so wish.
Sharesave schemes across the world principles, and the few provisions with which the dividend for the year of 30p per share 2006 now give more employees the opportunity to Company does not consider that it is appropriate 25p, which, together with the interim dividend, acquire shares in the Company by means of to comply, are set out in the appropriate sections makes a total for the year of 55p per share regular savings.
of this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The final dividend, if approved by the shareholders, will be paid on 29 May 2008 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the 12 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 The Board comprises eight Non-Executive The Nomination Committee has primary Committees of the Board Directors including Adrian Bellamy, the Chairman, responsibility for reviewing the performance of The Company has established three Committees who has the responsibility for managing the individual Directors and in addition to this review of the Board, the terms of reference of which Board, and two Executive Directors, Bart Becht, process, the Chairman carried out an evaluation are available on the Companys website and the Chief Executive Officer CEO and Colin Day, of the performance of individual Directors by upon request.
the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
The Company face-to-face, one-on-one interviews.
The Board Audit Committee has adopted a Board structure which is similar is of the view that it is best placed to carry out The Audit Committee, chaired by Kenneth to that of its key international competitor such evaluations, without the need to employ Hydon since 16 November 2006, comprises companies, the majority of which are based in the services of an outside consultancy, and that three Non-Executive Directors.
The Board approves strategy, carries this is an appropriate and cost-effective procedure.
fully complies with provision C. 3.1 of the out an advisory and supervisory role and accepts The performance of the CEO, and of other Combined Code.
Kenneth Hydon, Financial ultimate responsibility for the conduct of the members of the Executive Committee, is regularly Director of Vodafone Group plc until July 2005 Companys business.
The CEO, together with reviewed by the Remuneration Committee of and David Tyler, Group Finance Director of GUS the other members of his Executive Committee, the Board.
plc until October 2006, both have recent and provides the day-to-day management of The Executive Committee presents an annual relevant financial experience.
strategic review and the Annual Plan to the monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the The Board has identified Graham Mackay as Board for its approval.
Actual performance internal controls, compliance procedures and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director against the Plan is presented to the Board at the Groups overall risk framework including in accordance with provision A.
3.3 of the each of its regular meetings and any changes the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
The majority of Non-Executive to forecasts as a result of current performance It reviews the interim and full year financial Directors are independent, as recommended by are reviewed.
statements before submission to the full Board the Combined Code.
Three of the Non-Executive and makes recommendations to the Board All members of the Board receive timely reports Directors are not considered to be independent regarding the auditors and their terms of on items arising at meetings of the Board to for all purposes: Adrian Bellamy, as Chairman of appointment.
It reviews and monitors the enable them to give due consideration to such the Board, Peter Harf, because of the shareholding external auditors independence and objectivity items in advance of the meetings.
he represents and Peter White, who has served and the effectiveness of the audit process.
more than nine years on the Board.
Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate The CFO and other senior management attend briefings on the Company and its operations these meetings by invitation.
The Groups During the year, the Companys policy has been around the world when they are appointed to external auditors and the Groups Vice President, revised and now does not, in principle, allow the Board.
They are encouraged to visit the Internal Audit attend meetings and have direct Executive Directors to hold external directorships.
Companys offices and factories, whenever the access to the Committee.
In evaluating its Colin Day has been allowed to retain his current opportunity presents itself, where they can be performance during the year, the Committee external directorship of WPP Group plc which he briefed on the local business operations.
The analysed responses from all Committee held prior to the change in policy.
Board endeavours to hold one meeting each members and Internal and External Audit to The Articles of Association require that every year at one of the operating units.
Director will seek re-election to the Board at least Full, formal and tailored induction processes Remuneration Committee every three years, in line with provision A.
7.1 of are put in place on appointment to the Board The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Judith the Combined Code.
which retain flexibility to allow the new Director Sprieser, meets regularly to review remuneration The Board meets a minimum of five times a year to have input to the induction process so that policy for Directors and senior executives.
The and will meet further as necessary to consider areas of particular interest to that Director can Committee also has responsibility for making specific matters which it has reserved to itself be accommodated.
decisions on the Chairmans remuneration.
The for decision, such as significant acquisition or Committee comprises three members, of whom All the Directors have access to the Company disposal proposals or major financing propositions.
two are considered independent as defined by Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that In 2007, there were five regular meetings and the standards of the Combined Code.
Adrian Board procedures are followed and that the one held by telephone conference.
A statement Bellamy is not considered independent being the Company complies with all applicable rules, of the Directors attendance at these Board Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Under regulations and obligations governing the meetings, and at meetings of Board Committees the revised Combined Code issued in July 2006, Companys operations.
A procedure exists for on which they served during the year, is shown it is acceptable for the Chairman to sit on the the Directors to take independent professional in Table 2 at the end of this report.
advice, if necessary, in furtherance of their with Code provision A.
1.3 the Chairman holds duties at the Companys expense.
Nomination Committee a session with other Non-Executive Directors at The Nomination Committee is responsible for the conclusion of each formal Board meeting The members of the Executive Committee nominating candidates for the approval of the without the Executive Directors present.
The are appointed to the Committee by the CEO, Board to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors.
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors who leads the Committee.
devote sufficient time to the Company.
As and when vacancies arise on the Board, the The Executive Committee manages the dayservices of an external search consultancy are During the year the Board has carried out a to-day operations of the Company.
Individual employed to seek candidates for appointment.
formal evaluation of its performance and that Executive Committee members hold global The Nomination Committee reviews each of its Committees and individual Directors in responsibility for specific operating functions candidate as presented by the consultancy accordance with Code provision A.
6.1. including category development, supply, finance, and all members of the Committee are involved human resources and information services.
The The Board analysed responses from all Board in the interview process before making their three Area Executive Vice Presidents covering members to a detailed questionnaire.
Graham recommendations to the full Board.
All members Europe, North America Australia, and Developing Mackay, as the Senior Independent Non-Executive of the Board are given the opportunity to meet Markets are also members of the Committee.
Director, conducted an evaluation of the the recommended candidates prior to Chairmans performance in conjunction with their appointment.
his Non-Executive Director colleagues with input from both Executive Directors.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 13 Report of the Directors continued The Committee comprises the Chairman, who and is updated by periodic forecasts.
Area with professional and regulatory requirements also chairs the Committee, the CEO, the Deputy and functional executives also perform regular and with best practice designed to ensure Chairman and the Chairs of both the Audit and business reviews with their management their independence from the Group, including Remuneration Committees.
The Board believes teams, which incorporate an assessment of periodic rotation of the lead engagement audit this membership is appropriate to the Group key risks and opportunities.
Details of non-audit services are set out despite this not being in compliance with Code in note 3 on page 35.
Risk management as part of the ongoing provision A.
4.1, which requires a majority of the risk and control process, operating units Environmental, social and governance ESG members to be independent.
Adrian Bellamy is review and evaluate risks to the achievement matters and reputational risk not considered independent as he is the Chairman of business objectives and the Board reviews The Board regularly considers and takes account of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Peter Harf is those significant risks which might impact of the significance of ESG matters and their not considered independent because of the on the achievement of corporate objectives.
potential risks to the business of the Company, shareholding he represents and Bart Becht is not Mitigating controls, together with any including reputational risks and the opportunities considered independent because he is the CEO.
necessary actions, are identified to enhance value that may arise from an Internal control and implemented.
The Board acknowledges that it has overall A summary of the most significant risks faced by The Board undertakes a formal review of responsibility for the Groups system of internal the Group is included in the Business Review on ESG matters at least annually, which includes control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and pages 6 to 7. providing oversight to ensure that the Company has established a control structure designed to has in place effective policies, systems and manage the achievement of business objectives.
Operating unit controls each operating procedures for managing ESG matters and The system complies with the Turnbull guidance unit maintains internal controls, which are mitigating significant ESG risks.
Additionally, on internal control and provides reasonable, but appropriate to its own business environment.
as part of its risk assessment procedures, the not absolute, assurance against material Such controls must be in accordance with Boards Audit Committee undertakes regular misstatement or loss.
Group policies and include management review of the arrangements for, and authorisation processes, to ensure that all Throughout the year the Group has had in place effectiveness of, risk management and internal commitments on behalf of the Group are an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating audit, including the full range of risks facing the entered into after appropriate approval.
and managing the significant risks and Company, which include ESG matters and opportunities faced by the Group and the Board In particular, there is a structured process for reputational risks.
has performed a specific assessment of internal the appraisal and authorisation of all material The CEO is the Board member with specific control for the purpose of this Annual Report.
As part of The Groups control environment is supported by Monitoring the effectiveness of internal established management processes, which a Code of Business Conduct and a range of controls is monitored regularly through include performance management systems and policies on corporate responsibility.
Other key a combination of management review, selfappropriate remuneration incentives, senior elements within the internal control structure assessment and internal and external audit.
management reports directly to the CEO on ESG are summarised as follows: The results of external and internal audit matters on a regular basis.
The Board and management the Board reviews are reported to and considered by the Key areas of ESG internal control and continues to approve strategy and performs Audit Committee, and actions are taken to performance, including ESG disclosures, are an advisory and supervisory role with the dayaddress significant control matters identified.
independently reviewed and verified by both to-day management of the Company being The Audit Committee also approves annual internal and external organisations, including undertaken by the Executive Committee.
internal audit plans and is responsible for Internal Audit, and their findings regularly The CEO and other Executive Committee performing the ongoing review of internal reported to senior management, the CEO, members have clearly communicated the control on behalf of the Board.
the Audit Committee and the Board.
Group vision, strategy, operating constitutions, The Board confirms that reviews of the values and business objectives across The Board has identified and assessed the appropriateness and effectiveness of the system the Group.
significant ESG risks and concluded that there of internal control throughout the financial year are limited material risks to the Companys longOrganisational structure the Group operates have been satisfactorily completed in compliance and short-term value arising from ESG matters, three area management organisations, Europe, with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
In other than potential reputational risks common North America Australia and Developing particular major risks have been identified and to businesses with well-known brands.
Markets and centralised functions covering ongoing monitoring procedures are in place.
category management, supply, sales, finance The issues of potential reputational risk Group policy in respect of non-audit and legal, information services and human considered by the Board include: services provided by external auditors resources.
Throughout the organisation, the The Audit Committee and the CFO keep under Industry sector and product safety risks: The achievement of business objectives and the review the independence and objectivity of the household products and health & personal establishment of appropriate risk management external auditors.
The Committee reviews the care sectors have a number of potential and internal control are embedded in the nature and level of non-audit services undertaken product and ingredient risks relating to concerns responsibilities of line executives.
by the external auditors each year to satisfy itself voiced over the long-term effects of household Budgeting there is an annual planning that there is no effect on their independence.
chemicals and OTC drug ingredients on human process whereby detailed operating budgets The Board recognises that in certain circumstances health and the environment.
The Company for the following financial year are prepared the nature of the advice required may make it has comprehensive management processes in and are reviewed by the Board.
Long-term more timely and cost-effective to appoint the place to ensure that its products are both business plans are also prepared and are external auditors who already have a good suitable and safe for their intended use, in reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Any significant addition to meeting applicable regulatory information technology consultancy projects are requirements.
Additionally, regulatory Management reporting there is a put out to tender and the external auditors are compliance and product safety issues are comprehensive system of management excluded from this tender process.
proactively addressed by both national and reporting.
The financial performance of regional industry associations of which the operating units and the Group as a whole is The external auditors report to the Audit Company is an active member, including monitored against budget on a monthly basis Committee on the actions they take to comply those in Europe and North America Australia.
14 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 For example, the HERA Human and Product quality risks: Failures in product The Companys Annual General Meeting is used Environmental Risk Assessment project, quality controls could potentially lead to as the main opportunity for the Directors to established in 1999, is a voluntary industry damage to the reputation of, and trust in, communicate with private investors.
programme of publicly available risk the Companys brands.
The Company has Policy on the payment of creditors assessments on ingredients of household comprehensive quality management processes It is the Companys policy to follow the CBI cleaning products www.
and procedures, including Group, Area, Prompt Payers Code.
This policy requires the Regional and site-level Quality Assurance As part of the Companys commitment Company to agree the terms of payments with functions that oversee and monitor product to make continual improvements in the its suppliers, to ensure that those suppliers are quality globally.
environmental sustainability of its products aware of those terms and to abide by those and processes, it continues to progress Further information on the Companys terms.
Copies of the Code are available from ingredient removal programmes, above management of ESG matters, specifically its CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, and beyond regulatory requirements, to forward-looking programmes to help tackle London WC1A 1DU.
As at 31 December 2007 systematically remove specific ingredients climate change and invest in communities, and 31 December 2006 the Company did not from Company product formulae and is provided on page 9 of the separately have any amounts overdue to its suppliers.
packaging device component specifications published Shareholders Review and Summary Directors responsibilities globally.
For example, recent programmes Financial Statement 2007.
The Companys The following statement, which should be read include: removal of nitro and polycyclic annual Sustainability Report available at in conjunction with the Auditors Reports set artificial musks from fragrances: removal www.
com provides further out on pages 24 and 60, is made with a view to of PDCB paradichlorobenzene from toilet information on its policies, systems and procedures distinguishing for shareholders the respective blocks: removal of NPEs Nonyl Phenol for managing ESG matters and any material risks responsibilities of the Directors and of the Ethoxylates, APEs Alkyl Phenol Ethoxylates arising from them, including: the extent to which auditors in relation to the financial statements.
and monoethylene series glycol ethers from it complies with those policies, systems and The Directors are required by the Companies Act use in household cleaning products: and the procedures: Key Performance Indicators KPIs : 1985 to prepare financial statements for each replacement of formaldehyde preservative.
and its sustainability programmes, targets year which give a true and fair view of the state and progress.
REACH Registration, Evaluation, of affairs of the Company and the Group as at Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals The Board believes that it receives adequate the end of the year, and of the profit or loss for is the new framework for regulation of information and training on ESG matters and their the year.
chemicals in Europe which was formally potential risks and opportunities to the business The Directors consider that, in preparing the adopted by the European Union in December of the Company, including reputational risks.
financial statements on pages 25 to 67 including 2006 and entered into force in 2007.
Sustainability and corporate responsibility the information on Directors remuneration Under REACH, as part of a phased programme Information on the Companys management on pages 18 to 23, the Company has used over several years, industry is required to of sustainability and corporate responsibility appropriate accounting policies consistently register substances that are manufactured, issues is provided on page 9 of the separately applied and supported by reasonable and imported or used in Europe.
For the majority published Shareholders Review and Summary prudent judgements and estimates, and that of substances i. e. ingredients used in the Financial Statement 2007 and in its annual all applicable accounting standards have Companys products the responsibility for Sustainability Report, which provides information been followed.
registration will lie with its suppliers, who on its policies, programmes, targets and The Directors have responsibility for ensuring manufacture or import the ingredients used.
that the Company keeps accounting records The Company will continue to work closely Relations with shareholders which disclose with reasonable accuracy the with its suppliers as REACH is implemented, The Board is committed to effective financial position of the Company and which to ensure that the ingredients used in its communication between the Company and its enable them to ensure that the financial products are registered.
The Executive Directors, with the statements comply with the Companies Company has established an internal REACH Senior Vice President and the Manager, Investor Act 1985.
Task Force to ensure that all of its products Relations, meet regularly with institutional and their ingredients remain compliant.
The Directors are also responsible for ensuring shareholders and financial analysts, in Europe that reasonable procedures are being followed Supply chain risks: Most product, component and North America, to discuss matters relating for safeguarding the assets of the Group, and and raw material supply chains present a to the Companys business strategy and current for preventing and detecting fraud and number of potential reputational risks relating performance issues.
The Board receives regular other irregularities.
to: labour standards: health, safety and monthly reports from the CEO which include environmental standards: raw material sourcing: updates on the share price development, major The Directors are required to prepare the and the social, ethical and environmental buyers and sellers of shares and on investor financial statements on the going concern basis performance of third party manufacturers views, including analyst reports on the industry unless it is inappropriate to presume that the and suppliers.
The Companys Global and specifically on the Company.
Feedback on Company will continue in business.
Manufacturing Standard GMS mandates presentations and roadshow meetings with Going concern minimum requirements regarding employment institutional investors is presented to the The Directors, having made appropriate arrangements, labour standards and health, Executive Directors following twice-yearly enquiries, are satisfied that the Company and safety and environmental management, in roadshows in Europe and North America.
the Group have adequate resources to continue line with international guidelines, for both The Chairman is available to discuss governance in operational existence for the foreseeable the Company and its suppliers.
Management and strategy with major shareholders should future.
For this reason they continue to adopt processes and controls in place include Group, such a dialogue be requested.
During the year the going concern basis in preparing the Area and Regional monitoring and auditing the Chairman has met with shareholders in financial statements.
of compliance with the GMS and other satisfaction of Code Provision D. 1.1 and reports requirements, including the external audit upon these meetings to the Directors.
The of third party product manufacturers.
Company believes that it is important that it makes key executives available, along with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, if required, to discuss matters of concern with its shareholders.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 15 Report of the Directors continued Audit Electronic communication The Articles contain specific provisions and The Directors, having made appropriate A resolution seeking authority that the Company restrictions regarding the Companys power to enquiries, state that: may send or supply documents or other borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing information to shareholders by making them and buying back of shares are also included in a so far as each Director is aware, there is available on a website or by using other electronic the Articles and shareholders are asked to renew no relevant audit information of which the means will also be put to shareholders at the such authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy Companys auditors are unaware: and AGM 2008. of the Articles is available on request from the b each Director has taken all the steps that Company Secretary.
Takeovers Directive he she ought to have taken as a Director Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, There are a number of agreements that take to make him herself aware of any relevant which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, effect, alter or terminate upon a change of audit information and to establish that the Company is required to disclose certain control of the Company following a takeover, the Companys auditors are aware of additional information.
The following gives such as commercial contracts, bank agreements, that information.
those disclosures which are not covered property lease arrangements and employees Charitable and political donations elsewhere in this Annual Report.
None of these are deemed to be Donations to charitable organisations in the UK significant in terms of their potential impact The Companys Articles of Association the amounted to 606,000 2006 599,000 of which on the business of the Group as a whole.
Articles give the Board power to appoint 300,000 was donated to Save the Children, Directors, but also require Directors to retire Auditors the Companys nominated global charity.
No and submit themselves for election at the first The auditors,  LLP, political donations were made 2006 nil.
Annual General Meeting following their have indicated their willingness to continue in AGM appointment.
A Director who retires in this office and a resolution that they be reappointed The notice convening the first AGM of the way is eligible for election but is not taken into will be proposed at the AGM.
Company to be held on Thursday, 1 May account when deciding how many Directors 2008 at 11.15 am at The London Heathrow should retire by rotation at the Annual General Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex Meeting.
The Articles themselves may be amended UB3 5AN is contained in a separate document by special resolution of the shareholders.
Pursuant to the Articles, at every Annual General Articles of Association Meeting, at least one third of the current A resolution seeking the adoption of minor Directors must retire by rotation.
If the amendments to the Articles of Association will Companys shareholders approve the special be put to the shareholders at the AGM 2008. resolution amending the Articles, the concept of The new Articles of Association incorporate one third of Directors retiring from office at each certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Annual General Meeting will be removed as it is and also reflect current practice in relation to no longer appropriate in view of the Combined the articles of listed companies.
Code requirement for Directors to offer themselves for re-election every three years.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association and the Articles.
Substantial shareholdings As at 1 March 2008, the Company had received the following notices of substantial interests 3% or more in the total voting rights of the Company: No of % of total ordinary Nature of voting rights shares holding JAB Holdings B. V. 15.62 111,105,415 Indirect Legal and General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 4.81 34,204,027 Indirect Massachusetts Financial Services Company and or its subsidiaries 3.22 22,878,039 Indirect By order of the Board Elizabeth Richardson Company Secretary 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berks SL1 3UH 13 March 2008 16 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Table 1 Interests in the share capital of the Company The Directors in office at the end of the year had the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: 1 March 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Adrian Bellamy 16,372 16,372 15,306 Bart Becht - beneficial 1,803,916 1,803,916 1,232,484 Bart Becht - non-beneficial 333,821 333,821 299,655 Colin Day 356,746 356,746 302,107 Peter Harf 842,020 842,020 841,686 Kenneth Hydon 4,193 4,193 3,937 Graham Mackay 1,012 1,012 756 Gerard Murphy 728 728 472 Judith Sprieser 2,410 2,410 2,149 David Tyler 806 806 Peter White 2,596 2,596 2,335 Notes 1.
No person who was a Director or a member of a Directors family on 31 December 2007 had any notifiable share interests in any subsidiary.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Table 2 Attendance at meetings In 2007, there were six Board meetings one held by telephone conference in accordance with the Articles of Association, three Audit Committee meetings, six Remuneration Committee meetings two evidenced by written resolution and two Nomination Committee meetings.
Written resolutions are required to be signed by all Directors on the Board or Members on the Committee.
Attendance by individual Directors at Board meetings and at meetings of Committees on which they sit is given in the table below.
Number of meetings attended Note Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Adrian Bellamy 66 2 Peter Harf 62 Bart Becht 62 Colin Day 6 Kenneth Hydon 53 2 Graham Mackay 66 Gerard Murphy 63 David Tyler a 52 Judith Sprieser 66 2 Peter White 63 Notes a David Tyler attended all meetings subsequent to his appointment on 26 February 2007.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 17
