The Board of Directors and Executive Committee The Board Judith Sprieser 54, American # Colin is responsible for financial controls and Bart Becht 51, Dutch # Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in August reporting, treasury, tax, corporate development, Joined the Board in 1999 on his appointment as 2003 and has been Chair of the Remuneration legal affairs and internal audit.
Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
He was Committee since June 2004.
She was previously Gareth Hill 41, South African appointed Chief Executive of Benckiser Detergents, Chief Executive Officer of Transora, Inc. an Senior Vice President, Information Services.
subsequently Benckiser N. V. in 1995 and e-commerce software and service company and Joined Reckitt Benckiser in October 2006.
Chairman of Benckiser's Management Board Executive Vice President formerly Chief Financial He was previously Information Systems Director from May 1999.
He holds no external directorships.
Officer of Sara Lee Corporation.
She is a at Arcadia Group Ltd since 2000, having joined Director of Allstate Insurance Company, USG Adrian Bellamy 66, British # as the e-Commerce Development Director.
Corporation, InterContinental Exchange, Inc. Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Prior to Arcadia, Gareth was at IBM UK Ltd, and Royal Ahold, NV.
Company in 1999 and became Non-Executive Rex Trueform Clothing Ltd in South Africa and Chairman in May 2003.
He is Chairman of The David Tyler 55, British Arthur Andersen.
He is a qualified chartered Body Shop International Plc and a Director of Was appointed Non-Executive Director in February accountant and has a BA in Commerce from The Gap and Williams-Sonoma, Inc.
He is Chairman of Logica plc and of 3i the University of Cape Town, South Africa.
formerly a director of Gucci Group NV and Quoted Private Equity Limited, and also a NonGareth is responsible for global information The Robert Mondavi Corporation.
Executive Director of Experian Group Limited and systems and services and telecommunications.
His executive career from Colin Day 52, British Rakesh Kapoor 49, Indian 1974 to 2006 was spent in financial and general Joined Reckitt Benckiser in September 2000 from Executive Vice President, Category management in Unilever plc, County NatWest Aegis Group plc where he was Group Finance Development.
Joined Reckitt & Colman in Ltd, Christies International plc and GUS plc.
He was formerly a Non- 1987 serving in various roles including Regional Executive Director of Vero plc, the Bell Group plc, Peter White 66, British Marketing Director, South Asia.
Following the easyJet plc and Imperial Tobacco plc.
He is currently Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in merger in 1999, he assumed the position of a Non-Executive Director of WPP Group plc.
He was previously Group Chief Category Group Director, Home Care.
He was Executive of Alliance & Leicester Plc.
He was appointed SVP, Regional Director, Northern Dr Peter Harf 61, German # Chairman of the Audit Committee between May Europe in 2001 and then EVP Category Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director 1998 and November 2006.
He resigned as a Development in July 2006. in 1999 and is the Deputy Chairman.
He served member of the Audit Committee in November Rakesh is responsible for global category as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2007 and will retire from the Board at the management, R&D, media, market research until June 2004.
He is Chairman of Coty Inc. and conclusion of the AGM to be held in May 2008. and strategic alliances.
InBev and was until May 2007 a Director of the Brunswick Corporation.
He is Chief Executive Executive Committee Alain Le Goff 55, French Officer of Joh.
Javed Ahmed 48, Pakistani Executive Vice President, Supply.
Was appointed Executive Vice President, North America and EVP for Operations at Benckiser in October Kenneth Hydon 63, British # Australia and Regional Director North American 1996.
He joined the Company in 1986, serving Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Household.
Joined Benckiser in 1992 as General as Industrial Director in France, Monaco, December 2003 and Chairman of the Audit Manager, Canada and in 1995 became General Germany and as Logistics Director for the Committee in November 2006.
Appointed SVP North American Group.
He was previously with Lesieur.
of the Chartered Institute of Management Household in 2001 and EVP, North America and Alain is responsible for the global supply Accountants, the Association of Chartered Australia in September 2003.
Prior to joining chain including procurement, manufacturing, Certified Accountants and the Association of Benckiser, he worked with Procter & Gamble warehousing and logistics.
He was the Senior and Bain & Company.
for management of Squeeze and X-trim gross Independent Non-Executive Director between Javed is responsible for North America margin enhancement programmes.
He retired and Australia New Zealand.
as Financial Director of Vodafone Group plc in Elio Leoni Sceti 42, Italian Bart Becht 51, Dutch July 2005 and is currently a Non-Executive Executive Vice President, Europe.
Joined Benckiser in Director of Tesco plc, Pearson plc and the Royal Benckiser in 1992 serving in various marketing 1988 and served as General Manager in Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust.
roles and as General Manager of Germany and Canada, the UK, France and Italy before being Italy.
Following the merger in 1999, Elio was Graham Mackay 58, British South African appointed Chief Executive of Benckiser promoted to SVP, North American Household Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Detergents, subsequently Benckiser N. V. in and to EVP Category Development in 2001.
February 2005 and the Senior Non-Executive 1995.
He was appointed Chief Executive Officer He was appointed EVP, Europe in July 2006.
He is the current of Reckitt Benckiser following the merger in Elio was previously with Procter & Gamble Chief Executive of SABMiller plc, one of the December 1999.
He was previously with Procter in Italy and France.
worlds largest brewers with brewing interests & Gamble both in the USA and Germany.
Elio is responsible for all European markets or major distribution agreements in over 60 Bart is Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Western and Eastern and the Companys countries across six continents.
He joined the private label business.
Freddy Caspers 47, German then South African Breweries Limited in 1978 Executive Vice President, Developing Markets.
and has held a number of senior positions Frank Ruether 55, German Joined Benckiser in September 1997 as EVP within that group.
Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
He previously served in Benckiser in July 1996 as Personnel Director and Dr Gerard Murphy 52, Irish PepsiCo and Johnson & Johnson in a variety was appointed SVP Human Resources in March Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in June of international assignments in Europe, US, 1997.
He was previously with Mars, 19861996, 2005.
From February 2003 until February 2008 Eastern Europe and Turkey.
as Director of Compensation & Benefits Europe.
he was Chief Executive Officer of Kingfisher plc.
Freddy is responsible for all companies in Asia Frank is responsible for human resources He was previously Chief Executive Officer of Pacific, Latin America and Africa Middle East.
management, remuneration and benefits, Carlton Communications plc, Exel plc and and organisational development.
Colin Day 52, British Greencore Group plc.
Earlier in his career, he Chief Financial Officer.
Joined Reckitt Benckiser Member of the Audit Committee held various senior positions within food and in September 2000 from Aegis Group plc where Member of the Remuneration Committee drink group, Grand Metropolitan now Diageo he was Group Finance Director from 1995.
Prior # Member of the Nomination Committee plc in Ireland, UK and USA.
He was appointed to that he was at Kodak, British Gas, fide La Rue a Senior Managing Director partner of The Group plc and ABB Group.
Blackstone Groups corporate private equity practice in March 2008.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 11
