Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review Land Our land bank strategy is critical to the future growth of the business and ensuring that value can be created for shareholders.
Our strategy is to capitalise upon the quality of our current and forward land bank and to retain our long term approach to acquiring land.
We invest in a balanced portfolio of different types of land, balancing return and risk.
Forward strategic land Timescales for planning consent: Long term.
Advantages: Land can be acquired at a discount to open market value.
Disadvantages: Risk that land does not gain consent and timing of delivery of planning consent.
Skills required: Planning skills to identify potential sales and investment in promoting sites through the planning system.
Redrows view: We have an excellent track record in our ability to convert strategic land into active developments, whilst optimising the development value for the landowner.
We have expanded our skill bases from greenfield sites to innovative approaches such as targeting more brownfield sites and embarking upon major regeneration projects.
Added value land Timescales for planning consent: Medium term.
Advantages: Higher probability of gaining consent.
Disadvantages: Often in competition with a limited number of other developers and timing of delivery of planning consent.
Skills required: Ability to resolve planning, technical and legal issues for landowners.
Redrows view: This type of land is the focus of our current land acquisition strategy and we have invested in our planners and designers in order to sell these skills to the landowners with whom we work, accelerating the conversion process whilst optimising land values for vendors.
Consented land Timescales for planning consent: Short term.
Advantages: Land comes with consent and delivers certainty.
Disadvantages: Land is on the open market and commands a premium price.
Skills required: Negotiation and design skills to optimise returns.
Redrows view: We invest in this type of land for tactical reasons, in order to gain fast track access into new areas and to optimise the use of our fixed costbase.
Forward Land Bank plots Forward Land Bank 24,400 plots 03 04 05 06 07 14 Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review 23,750 22,500 22,100 24,700 24,400 24,400 we have 24,400 plots in our forward land bank.
Imperial Heights at Jennetts Park, Bracknell - a development brought through from our forward land bank.
joint ventures, of 6.6m 2006: 0.7m on turnover of 38.7m sees the benefit of having a direct involvement in this area of 2006: 4.6m.
We achieved sales of completed commercial activity and we are investigating our options accordingly.
developments and land to end users across a number of locations, including St Davids Park and Buckshaw Village, and importantly Land we achieved our first income from Redrow Regeneration as it The key element in delivering sustainable and profitable growth successfully delivered the Lifelong Learning Centre and the first rests in the quality of the land bank.
In a competitive land market, 95 homes of Phase 1 at Barking Town Square.
where the value of existing sites with planning is increasing, we continue to promote a long term approach to sourcing our land The Board has considered the position of Framing Solutions plc, requirements to deliver margins in excess of those available in the the Groups 50:50 joint venture with Corus.
Redrows share of the open market.
These higher returns represent our reward for the operating loss of Framing Solutions in the year to June 2007 was skills and capital we invest in adding value during the planning 0.7m 2006: 0.8m, with the attributable loss after interest and process.
Our involvement in the joint venture since 2002 has enabled us to gain a greater understanding Through the strength and experience we possess within our of modern methods of construction which are now more prevalent regional land and planning teams, we continue to identify new and for which the market is now more established.
Taking these forward land opportunities and to promote existing sites through factors into consideration, the Board has decided that it no longer the planning system.
Our track record in forward land over many Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review 15 Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review Signature product at John Fielding Gardens, Llantarnam, South Wales.
16 Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review Barking Central - winner of the prestigious MIPIM Architectural Review Future Project Award.
years demonstrates to landowners our ability to secure planning they deliver incremental income without an increase in fixed consents and optimise development values.
overheads and can be particularly beneficial in growing output in our newer business.
In 2007, approximately 30% of the net additions to our owned land bank with planning were secured through our investment in We have made good progress in converting land controlled under forward land.
Within our forward land bank of 24,400 plots with a contract into our owned land bank with planning.
At June 2007, realistic prospect of securing a consent, we have 25 forward land we held 17,700 plots with planning, representing a 5.7% increase sites representing 10,300 plots spread across our operations that on the 16,750 plots held as at June 2006.
Our Homes companies are allocated in local plans.
Our existing forward land increased their land owned with planning to 17,280 plots with the opportunities have significant value not recognised in our balance balance of 420 plots held in Redrow Regeneration.
sheet and represent a source of higher margin opportunity in the future.
The average plot cost of our Homes land bank with planning was 36,300 2006: 31,000 representing 20.4% 2006: 18.3% of the The current land bank as at June 2007 was 20,700 plots, estimated average selling price of those plots.
This increase reflects representing in excess of four years supply 2006: 21,000. our strategy of growing our presence in the South East of England In sourcing our current land opportunities we look for where the relationship between land cost and selling price is opportunities to add value to the development process by resolving intrinsically higher.
During 2007, we invested a net 241.8m in planning, technical or legal issues.
In 2007, approximately 45% of new land at an average plot cost of 43,900.
31% of our net land was acquired through this route delivering land for our additions were in the South East and as at June 2007, 20% of our business that should produce profit at margins better than is Homes land bank owned with planning was in this market as typically available on sites with a planning consent sold on the compared with 16% as at the previous year end.
A key issue in the development process is in securing The balance of our land is secured in the open market where sites implementable, detailed planning consents to enable a site to be already have a planning permission.
In these instances, we use our converted into a sales outlet.
We now have 97.5% of our skills in design to be competitive in generating land values at the anticipated output for the financial year ended June 2008 with appropriate levels of return.
Such sites can support volumes where implementable planning secured.
Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review 17
