Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review Product The Redrow product embraces a portfolio of housestyles and commercial developments that, when combined with our urban design approach, enable us to create places where people will want to live and work, that complement the environments in which they are built.
The portfolio meets the demands of an ever more discerning public combining outstanding aesthetics, high quality construction and value to our customers.
Signature Signature is a highly flexible product that allows us to change elevational styles and be sympathetic to the character of the surrounding area.
Through the use of a core housetype range we achieve the benefits of managing our cost base and efficiency in the build process.
By recognising the importance of responding to the local context and with our focus on urban design, we can engage positively with planning officers and meet planning requirements effectively and efficiently.
The Signature range optimises coverage with a marketable array of homes yet achieves quality environments and communities in which people will choose to live.
In the City Redrows In the City apartment schemes have secured numerous awards for the quality of their design and contribution to their surrounding environment.
Whether our schemes are regenerating inner cities or providing high quality accommodation in premium locations, our developments offer excellent value to customers looking for a contemporary place to live or in which to invest.
Debut Debut properties directly address the need for affordable homes for people to buy, putting property ownership within reach of key workers, first-time buyers and those on low incomes, whilst embracing high standards of quality and sustainability.
The unique form of our Debut developments ensures that we are making the best possible use of the available land and providing environments that create a real sense of community.
Mixed Use & Regeneration Successful mixed use and regeneration developments require dedication, determination and imagination.
We employ all these qualities to plan, develop and execute successful mixed use schemes in areas that will encourage self-supporting, safe, harmonious and sustainable communities.
To achieve this we work with all stakeholders, including those living in the locality, to develop and tailor specific solutions for each project that recognise the priorities of all concerned.
Product Portfolio - % of business Homes units 1 23 1 Signature 78% 2 In the City 11% 3 Debut 11% 18 Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review Signature product at Oakley Vale, Corby, Northamptonshire.
Effective management of our investment in land is an essential landscaping to deliver a premium offering to our customers which ingredient in providing the capability to deliver growth at will drive value.
appropriate margins whilst retaining a return on capital employed significantly ahead of our cost of capital.
Redrow continues to Our Signature and Debut ranges provide a strong platform in invest in larger sites which provide opportunities to improve terms of house types to meet this objective particularly when margins over a developments lifetime through enhanced design taken with our award winning record on our In the City and value creation derived through its quality.
We also look to use developments.
This platform, together with the design skills such sites to generate outlets through trading land with our peer within our business through our Regional Directors of Design and group as well as releasing value for shareholders at the appropriate establishing Centres of Design Excellence in our regions, provides time and managing our overall investment.
the tools to capitalise on our progressive design philosophy.
This is already being reflected in our developments now coming Product on stream and this approach reinvigorates a historic element of Product plays a prominent role within our business.
The differentiation in Redrows heritage.
Government is setting significant challenges for the industry in terms of meeting improved sustainability levels and our Product The Debut range has been enthusiastically received by customers Development Team is assessing the ways in which these challenges who otherwise would not have been able to secure a foothold on can be addressed in a cost effective way that delivers a home that the home owning ladder.
In total, over 700 Debut customers are meets the aspirations of our customers.
now living in affordable open market new homes.
Our customer survey results show that 94% of Debut homeowners were satisfied Product maximises the value inherent in the land whilst ensuring with their home.
Debuts imaginative and innovative elements the desirability and attractiveness of our developments to our have been recognised in over 11 different awards.
The call for improved design from Government and authorities in England and Wales have generally remained focused other bodies requires that the product must be viewed in a much on traditional approaches to tackling affordability through social more holistic way.
Through our focus on urban design we view the housing for rent and shared equity through Registered Social product as not just the individual home but one that embraces all Landlords.
This has been further reinforced by the Governments the constituent elements of the development to deliver definition of affordable housing in recent planning guidance communities where people will want to live.
This includes the which is likely to impact our original volume aspirations for this street scenes and interaction of roads, the treatment of public product.
realm through the use of open space and use of hard and soft Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review 19 Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review Signature product at Buckshaw Village, Chorley - one of the largest brownfield mixed use regeneration projects in the north of England.
Debut product at Pavillion Lock, Hanley, Stoke-on-Trent.
20 Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review Celestia, Cardiff in centre of photograph adjacent to crane - a flagship waterfront regeneration scheme at the heart of the resurgent Cardiff Bay area.
There is now an increasing focus in Government policy upon overall scheme will be an important catalyst in regenerating the expanding the supply of new affordable homes.
In Debut, we have centre of Barking.
Progress continues to be made at Watford a product with strong positive customer endorsement from which Junction through our Joint Venture, Waterford Park, as we explore we can leverage future opportunities and it will continue to with Network Rail how we can optimise the regeneration of this represent part of our armoury.
However, the overall priority for high profile site.
We continue to investigate further opportunities Redrow must be to manage our resources to deliver value to our to utilise our regeneration skills.
shareholders in the most effective and efficient way and on sourcing development opportunities without a specific concentration on one element of our portfolio.
The Redrow product offering continues to embrace mixed use development which in recent years has been strengthened by our new Redrow Regeneration business concentrating on major opportunities in London and the South East.
We continue to deliver value from our mixed use schemes at St Davids Park and Buckshaw Village and are proceeding with new opportunities at City Wharf in Lichfield, Vision in Devonport and at Cheswick in Bristol.
In Redrow Regeneration, we are successfully moving forward with Phase 1 at Barking Town Square with the Lifelong Learning Centre handed over and 95 of the 246 apartments legally completing in 2006 07.
The balance of the apartments in Phase 1 will legally complete in the new financial year.
We secured planning on Phase 2 of the development in June 2007 and this comprises 272 apartments and 40,000 sq ft of office and retail space.
We have already sold 96 apartments within Phase 2 and the Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review 21
