Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review Business Outlook In our Homes operations we have moved into the new financial In July of this year the Government published a Green Paper that year with a stronger forward sales position and we are on set out its agenda for the housing sector with the over arching programme to increase our outlets in the coming months as we objective of delivering 3 million new homes by 2020 with move through the Autumn selling season.
We also anticipate increased levels of sustainability.
We believe the key issue is additional social housing legal completions in 2007 08.
We have whether the proposals will resolve the conflict between the 97.5% of our anticipated output for the current year on sites with Governments agenda to increase the delivery of new homes and implementable planning consent which provides us with the some Local Authorities resistance to new development.
capacity to grow our volumes.
The essential elements in our strategy continue to be in our long The key factor in the outcome for 2007 08 will be the strength of term approach to land acquisition and the capacity in our demand in the housing markets in which we operate.
It is always company structure to deliver growth in output.
We are using our difficult to assess the housing market based on activity in the skills in mixed use development to enable us to unlock residential weaker selling months of July and August.
However, the effect of opportunities and continue to invest in Redrow Regeneration as the succession of base rate rises since August 2006, coupled with a further source of long term land yielding a profit stream in remaining uncertainties over interest rates and the debt markets, the future.
appear to be influencing consumer confidence and the housing markets as we move into the Autumn selling season.
We will The focus on design to optimise value is taking on an increasing closely monitor lead indicators and retain a careful balance importance in our business, especially in conjunction with our between selling prices and rate of sale to optimise returns from our product development investment to address the requirements in land bank.
This can make us more competitive in the land market, assist in delivering planning consents more In conjunction with this sales strategy we will exercise robust effectively and secure increased value for Redrow and our management of both our build cost and our overheads.
However, as we have previously indicated, land acquired in recent years which in general has not benefited from inflation in the The fundamentals for our industry in the medium and long term selling prices of new homes, will influence margins over the next remain positive and our land bank, product and experienced twelve months as compared with their current level.
management teams will enable us to address the challenges and take advantage of the opportunities in our marketplace for the We have some excellent developments on stream in our mixed use benefit of shareholders in the coming years.
portfolio and will complete Phase 1 of Barking with the legal completion of the remaining 151 apartments in 2007 08.
We will continue to invest in the future of Redrow Regeneration through pre-development expenditure but given the very strong performance in 2006 07 do not, at this stage, anticipate the same strength of contribution in the new financial year from our Mixed Use and Regeneration activities.
The spotlight has been increasingly on our industry in recent years Neil Fitzsimmons David Arnold in terms of the number, affordability and sustainability of new Chief Executive Group Finance Director homes.
There have been numerous changes to the planning system aimed at making it more efficient and new challenges set as regards addressing the issues of climate change.
We have concerns whether the changes to the planning system will deliver benefits in terms of the speed of delivery of implementable planning consents.
We support the objective to improve the sustainability of new homes and Redrow has, alongside its peer group and stakeholders from other sectors, signed the 2016 Zero Carbon Commitment.
28 Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review Signature product at Ley Vale, Frome, Somerset - a development recognised by CABE for the quality of its urban design.
Signature product at Garncroft Wynd, Glenboig, North Lanarkshire.
Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review 29
