The UK housing market Hot Topics in the Housebuilding Sector There has been a significant increase in interest in the housebuilding and development sectors from Central Government as it seeks to tackle what is increasingly identified as a housing crisis.
Over the last few years and in the last twelve months in particular this has brought further new challenges and opportunities for the industry: The Code for Sustainable Homes Home Information Packs HIPs Sustainable development meets the needs of the present without The Home Information Pack HIP was originally proposed by the compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own Government as a means of increasing the speed and certainty of requirements.
It is widely recognised that new housing has to be the process for purchasing a home by requiring certain more sustainable and to reduce carbon emissions and water usage.
information, including searches and an energy performance Government statistics show that a quarter of the UKs current certificate to be provided by the seller to the purchaser.
carbon emissions arise from the energy requirements of homes and The implementation of HIPs has been delayed and the the Government has set targets to significantly reduce carbon requirements scaled down and it is being introduced on a phased emissions from new homes.
From that date, HIPs are required for the sale of four bedroom properties and larger, with the The Code for Sustainable Homes, a national standard for requirement being extended to three bedroom properties from sustainable design and construction of new homes came into effect 10 September 2007.
The Government proposes that smaller in April 2007.
Building regulations will be progressively tightened properties should be phased in as soon as sufficient energy assessors to reduce carbon emissions by 25% in 2010, by 44% in 2013 with are fully qualified.
the objective that all new homes should be zero carbon from 2016.
Redrows view: The introduction of energy performance certificates Redrows view: Redrow will play its part in improving the which allow house purchasers to understand better the energy sustainability of the homes we build.
In order to meet the most performance of their prospective home is to be welcomed.
However, the demanding targets of the Code it will require a number of stakeholders pack potentially increases the cost of the housebuying process at an to act together, including suppliers and utility companies and Redrow earlier stage without any real payback for customers.
The introduction has already made its commitment by joining with other stakeholders in of HIPs risks impacting the liquidity of the housing market by providing signing up to the CLGs 2016 commitment to zero carbon homes.
disincentives to existing homeowners to market their properties.
Debut homes at Hilton, near Derby - affordable and sustainable Stamford Brook, Altrincham near Manchester - a unique living providing a real sense of community for the first time buyer.
eco-friendly collaboration with the National Trust.
8 The UK housing market The Sycamores, Ailsworth, Peterborough - coming home to a development in keeping with the local area.
Callcutt review Office of Fair Trading Market Study This is a Government commissioned review by John Callcutt, who The Office of Fair Trading OFT announced on 22 June 2007 its was previously Chief Executive of Crest Nicholson plc and English intention to conduct a market study into housebuilding in the Partnerships.
Its terms of reference are to: UK.
Its study will concentrate on two particular areas: Examine how the supply of new homes is influenced by the Delivery of housing: whether land which is suitable for nature and structure of the housebuilding industry, the business development is being effectively brought through to the models and its supply chain, including land, materials and skills: planning approval stage and whether land with planning and permission is being converted effectively into homes: and Consider how these factors influence the delivery of new homes Customer satisfaction: homebuyers level of satisfaction with to achieve the Governments target, meet homebuyers new homes they purchase requirements and aspirations, achieve high standards of energy efficiency and sustainability as set out in the Code for The study is expected to report in Summer 2008.
Sustainable Homes, and progress to a zero carbon standard The review was launched in February 2007 and is due to report Redrows view: We view the process as positive as it may provide and make its recommendations in Autumn 2007. further evidence of impediments to development and suggest means to improve the efficiency of the current planning processes to the benefit of homebuyers and the industry.
We recognise the importance of delivering Redrows view: This review follows on from the Review of Housing good levels of customer satisfaction which is already a major focus for Supply undertaken by Kate Barker in March 2004.
We look forward to participating in the study.
focus upon the housebuilding industry itself and we await its findings with interest.
The UK housing market 9 The UK housing market Poulton Manor, Wirral - an apartment scheme designed to sit comfortably within a picturesque landscaped environment.
Planning White Paper Planning Green Paper In May 2007, the Department for Communities and Local In July 2007, the Department for Communities and Local Government published a white paper entitled Planning for a Government published a green paper entitled Homes for the sustainable future.
This covered a range of challenges faced by future: more sustainable, more affordable.
This covers a wide the planning system.
Key areas include: range of issues challenging the provision of housing in the UK today.
Key areas include: Proposals for the Government to produce National Policy Statements to ensure there is a clear policy framework for Confirming previously announced housing supply targets nationally significant infrastructure and to introduce an Proposals for continuing planning reform Infrastructure Planning Commission to make decisions on such projects Proposals for Government and the public sector to unlock surplus land for additional new and affordable homes Proposals to improve the town and country planning system to provide a positive framework for delivering sustainable Considering the need for well designed homes and places and development for example by prioritising the use of previously giving targets for carbon emissions developed land and finalising the Planning Policy Statement on climate change Detailing targets and proposals for affordable housing Proposals to continue to encourage positive planning based on The consultation period for the paper is open until 15 October place shaping by local authorities and promoting community 2007. engagement in the process The consultation period for the paper closed on 17 August 2007.
Redrows view: The Green Paper sets out how the Government proposes to increase housing supply to meet a target of 240,000 new homes p. a. in England.
We welcome the proposal to incentivise local Redrows view: Much focus was given to the proposed improvements authorities for delivering new homes rather than the current target of in the planning process at its two extremes, namely for major national planning decisions but need to be convinced that it addresses the infrastructure projects, or, at the other end of the spectrum, to home fundamental issue of the divergence between Central Government improvements.
We are concerned that there appeared to be few aspirations to increase housing supply and the response of Local proposals of significance that would enhance the speed and outcome of Government in terms of delivering planning permissions for residential planning for housebuilding generally.
development to deliver the goal.
10 The UK housing market Planning Gain Supplement The green paper however indicated that a PGS bill is provisional Following on from the case made in the Barker Review for a and that if, prior to the Pre-Budget Report later in the year, a Planning Gain Supplement PGS to capture a portion of land better way is identified of ensuring local communities receive value uplift created by the planning process to fund additional significantly more of the benefit from planning gain, the infrastructure, the Government produced a consultation paper in Government will be prepared to defer next parliamentary sessions December 2005 on PGS.
The recent planning green paper legislation on PGS.
It invited views from key stakeholders on explained the Governments current proposals with key features of possible alternative approaches.
PGS being: PGS would be levied at a modest rate to ensure that incentives Redrows view: There has long been a debate regarding if, how and to develop land are preserved what proportion of the value uplift that can arise to a landowner on the grant of a residential or commercial planning consent might be In England, planning obligations under S106 powers would be redistributed to fund the impact of development.
The Government scaled back appears committed to some form of taxation on uplift and this being the case, Redrow seeks a system that will operate with simplicity, certainty In England at least 70% of PGS revenues would be paid directly and on a forward looking, not retrospective basis.
Furthermore, any to the Local Planning Authority which granted the planning system will have to be balanced to ensure it does not discourage land permission to which the PGS liability is attached being brought forward for development at a time when the country has an urgent requirement for new homes.
Local Authorities would be expected to use PGS resources to secure delivery of infrastructure in pursuit of objectives identified in their statutory Local Development Framework, with the remaining share of PGS revenues raised in a region returned to that region to support regional infrastructure PGS would not be introduced earlier than 2009 Stourscombe Vale, Launceston, Cornwall - Signature range homes built to traditional Cornish design principles.
