Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the members their Going concern report and the financial statements for the 12 months ended The Directors have considered the Groups financial position and 30 June 2007. trading prospects and consider they have a reasonable expectation for stating that Redrow plc has adequate resources to continue Principal activities and business review trading for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to The principal activities of the Group are residential and adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial commercial property development.
Revenue and profit on ordinary activities before taxation are Substantial shareholdings stated at 795.7m and 120.5m respectively.
As at 10 September 2007, the Company has been advised of the following notifiable interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the Chief Executive and Finance Directors No.
of % of issued Name shares held share capital business review on pages 12 to 29.
This includes a review of the key risks facing the business and a review of the key performance indicators of the business.
Lloyds TSB Group plc 15,748,540 9.9 Bridgemere Securities Limited 8,400,130 5.3 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare Legal & General Group plc 5,467,132 3.4 financial statements for each financial year which give a true and Mirabaud Investment fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as Management Limited 4,826,130 3.0 at the end of the financial year and of the profit of the Group for MAN Financial Limited 4,820,629 3.0 that period in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
In preparing the financial statements the Directors ensure that Directors suitable accounting policies have been used and applied The Directors are listed together with their biographical details on consistently, that reasonable and prudent judgements and pages 34 and 35. estimates have been made and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are required to In accordance with Article 84 of the Articles of Association, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless John Tutte and Malcolm King will retire by rotation at the it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for business.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate re-election.
As part of the Boards annual evaluation process, each accounting records, and are also responsible for taking such steps Executive Director underwent formal performance evaluations and instituting and maintaining such systems and controls as are which included looking at the individuals effective contribution.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and As identified in the Corporate Governance statement, on page 38, to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
formal individual performance evaluation of the Non-Executive Directors was deferred though the Board collectively considered The Directors confirm they have complied with the above overall performance.
The Board confirms that John Tutte, who requirements in preparing these financial statements.
stands for re-election as Executive Director, and Malcolm King, The maintenance and integrity of the Redrow plc website is the who stands for re-election as a Non-Executive Director, continue responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the to be effective and demonstrate the appropriate commitment to external Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters their roles.
and accordingly, the external Auditors accept no responsibility for In accordance with Article 79 of the Articles of Association, any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements Alan Bowkett, Bob Bennett and Denise Jagger, having been since they were initially presented on the website.
appointed since the 2006 AGM, offer themselves for So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit re-appointment.
information of which the Groups external Auditors are unaware.
The Executive Directors have formal service agreements.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken Termination of their employment may be effected by twelve as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit months notice given by either party.
information and to establish that the Groups external Auditors are aware of that information.
The Non-Executive Directors have fixed term service agreements outlining their duties and responsibilities.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Details of Directors service agreements are given in the other jurisdictions.
50 Directors report Directors interests Creditor payment policy There were no material related party transactions which require The Group values its relationships with suppliers and disclosure.
It is the policy to agree credit terms prior to commencement of trading.
Subject to any items of genuine The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are dispute, it is policy to pay creditors within the terms agreed.
given in the Remuneration report on pages 42 to 49.
At June 2007 the Group had 46 days purchases outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers and subcontractors Charitable and political donations 2006: 42 days.
The Company had nil days purchases The Group made no political donations but paid 334,000 in outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers 2006: nil.
charitable donations during the year being 267,000 in respect of National charities and 67,000 in support of local charities.
Research and development The Group and its employees are actively involved in fundraising The Group has a centralised Product Development Team charged activities for specific charities.
with identifying and evaluating new construction techniques and products.
Environmental and sustainability issues play a prominent In March 2006, Redrow established the Redrow Foundation.
This independent charitable trust which is a registered charity seeks to relieve poverty and sickness in the UK, and in particular Environment to provide accommodation and related assistance, including Redrow recognises its responsibilities to the community as a whole respite care, especially for children, the elderly and those who are and has adopted an environmental strategy which is a core part of sick or infirm.
In the year ended June 2007, Redrow paid 50 per the Groups objectives.
Further details are provided in the home legally completed to the Redrow Foundation.
The amount Corporate social responsibility review on pages 30 to 33 and also paid to the Foundation is included within the charitable donations on our website at www.
in respect of National charities disclosed above and amounted to 241,000 in 2006 07.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Employees external Auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Redrow places considerable importance on the provision of Meeting on 7 November 2007. training and development: training@redrow, a purpose built in-house training facility at Tamworth, offers over 40 different Purchase of the Companys own shares courses including those which support the Group induction Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting process.
seeks authority from Shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 15,982,704 ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount of The Group supports the employment of disabled persons wherever 1,598,270, which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the possible through recruitment and by the retention and retraining Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2007. of those who become disabled during their employment.
The authority will expire at the end of next years Annual General Meeting and the resolution specifies the maximum and minimum The Directors recognise the importance of good communications prices at which the shares may be bought.
Companies within the Group are encouraged to opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial make their employees aware of the financial and economic factors position of the Company will be taken into account before affecting their respective companies and the Group.
This is deciding upon this course of action.
assisted through the medium of regular management meetings and staff publications.
Employee share ownership is encouraged Notice of Annual General Meeting through savings related schemes.
In the year ended 30 June 2007, Pages 82 to 86 set out the Notice of Annual General Meeting and the Save As You Earn scheme was administered via a Qualifying details the resolutions proposed together with explanatory notes.
Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST.
By order of the Board Graham Cope Company Secretary 10 September 2007 Directors report 51
