Description of business 80 Description of business Reed Elsevier is a world leading publisher and information provider.
The principal operations are in North America and Europe, serving the science, medical, legal, risk information and analytics and business sectors.
Total revenues for the year ended Elsevier is a leading 31 December 2007 were 4,584m.
provider of scientific, technical and medical information and solutions Reed Elsevier is well positioned in markets with attractive growth prospects and has a clear investment led growth strategy focused on building revenue momentum across all our businesses.
Long term growth in our markets is expected to be sustained by the continuing demand for professional information.
In addition, LexisNexis is a leading professionals are looking for significant improvements in provider of legal, tax, regulatory, risk information productivity through access to highly functional online services and analytics, and business and associated workflow solutions.
information solutions to professional, corporate and government Reed Elsevier is implementing an important reshaping of the customers worldwide business, with the strategic goal of moving more assets away from slower growth, more cyclical advertising print based sectors, and more towards faster growth, less cyclical online based sectors.
Consequently, in 2007 we sold Harcourt Education and in February 2008 announced the planned divestment of Reed Business Reed Business is the Information and the agreed acquisition of the online risk analytics worlds largest businessbusiness ChoicePoint Inc.
Together these moves create a more to-business publisher and exhibition organiser cohesive and synergistic business and accelerate growth.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 81 Strategy Revenue by source Deliver authoritative content through leading brands.
Reed Elsevier delivers authoritative, Subscriptions 45% and to a great extent proprietary, content of the highest quality through market leading brands.
Circulation 20% In its publications and services Reed Elseviers professional customers find the essential data, Advertising 15% analysis and commentary to support their decisions.
Editorial investment and selective Exhibitions 13% Other 7% acquisitions are generating new sources of content to widen the product offering to customers, and to expand into new segments and geographic regions.
As online information sources increase, Reed Elseviers trusted leadership brands play an ever more vital role.
Over the last five years digital revenues have built to 2.1bn or 47% of total revenues.
Authoritative information, technology enabled and increasingly integrated into customer workflows, is making Reed Elseviers customers more effective professionally and making Reed Elsevier a more valued partner.
As Reed Elseviers customers and core markets rapidly migrate online, there are opportunities to leverage its leadership brands and authoritative proprietary content.
Digital technology enables Reed Elsevier to move up the value chain with its customers by providing a range of innovative solution orientated products that become embedded in their workflow.
This is playing a major part in Reed Elseviers strategy going forward.
Revenue by media Improve cost efficiency.
Digital growth and an increasingly synergistic portfolio provide Online 47% opportunities to further leverage scale and commonalities across the business, sharing skill Print 41% sets, resources and collective experience.
Substantial cost savings have been made over the Exhibitions 12% last five years, and there are further opportunities across the supply chain and in technology and infrastructure to continue this progress.
Improving cost efficiency remains a fundamental feature of Reed Elsevier.
In addition to significant internal investment, Reed Elsevier will continue to allocate capital and resources to pursue selective acquisition opportunities that accelerate its strategy and overall business progress.
Reed Elsevier has spent 1.8bn on acquisitions over the last five years, focused on strong brands and proprietary content, customer workflow solutions, leading technologies and expansion into attractive adjacent markets, most notably in legal solutions, risk management, health and e-business.
Financial strategy Reed Elsevier expects progress in the development of its digital business to deliver good revenue growth and, with improvements in cost efficiency and organisational effectiveness, this will flow through at a higher rate to operating profitability.
Additional financial benefits are delivered through leverage and fiscal efficiency.
With an increasing and substantial portion of the revenues being delivered by subscription based products and the trend to longer term contracts, Reed Elsevier will be a more consistent business.
Reed Elsevier aims to distribute 70-80% of free cash flow through dividends and share buybacks.
The balance will be invested in the business, mainly through acquisitions, so maintaining capital efficiency aligned to its strategy.
Reed Elseviers capital will be invested in growth areas which will make sustainable returns in excess of the risk adjusted cost of capital.
Reed Elsevier aims to maintain a solid investment grade credit rating, retaining the balance sheet strength to access the most cost effective sources of borrowing and to support Reed Elseviers strategic ambition in evolving publishing and information markets.
This business and financial strategy is directed at delivering good revenue growth, continuous margin improvement, high cash generation, strong adjusted earnings per share growth and growing returns on capital.
Our incentive programmes are designed in support of these strategies and in creating shareholder value.
Description of business 82 Description of business continued Elsevier provides its customers with scientific, technical and medical content and tools that improve productivity in research, healthcare and health education technical and medical journal articles and is Elsevier portfolio Elsevier S&T print books and journals accessed by over 11 million users each year.
S&T electronic journals and books Elsevier provides its customers with scientific, ScienceDirect holds almost nine million S&T databases and solutions Health Sciences North America technical and medical content and tools that scientific articles and an expanding portfolio Health Sciences International improve productivity in research, healthcare of books online, which currently includes 65 and health education.
Total revenues for major reference works, over 50 book series, the year ended 31 December 2007 were seven handbooks totalling over 175 volumes 1,507m.
Elsevier is a global business with and more than 4,000 e-books.
Beginning in principal operations located in Amsterdam, 2008 more than 500 e-books will be added to London, Oxford, New York, Philadelphia, ScienceDirect each year.
St Louis, San Diego, Boston, Paris, Munich, Madrid, Singapore, Tokyo and Delhi.
Elseviers growing online offerings also include Scopus, an abstract and index Elsevier serves a global network of 7,000 database and navigational tool, which now editors, 70,000 editorial board members, has nearly 33 million abstracts of scientific 300,000 reviewers, and more than 600,000 research articles from 15,000 peer reviewed authors.
Its products reach more than publications, over 21 million patents, and 12 million researchers in 4,500 institutions, references to over 386 million web pages.
ScienceDirect online usage five million students, and 15 million doctors, nurses and health professionals.
The Health Sciences division of Elsevier serves medical researchers, practising professionals, 450 400 Growth in the scientific information market educators and students globally.
It publishes 350 is driven by increases in research output, over 700 journals, including a number of 300 R&D spend, the number of researchers journals for learned societies, and over 250 worldwide, and the need for improved 2,000 book titles and clinical reference 200 research efficiency.
In healthcare, growth works annually.
Growth in electronic health 150 is driven by advances in medical science and information is accelerating and the business 100 the shift from activity-based to outcomescontinues to expand its portfolio of online 50 based models of patient care and associated health information tools for education, 0 demands for increased productivity.
practitioner reference, and point of care 02 03 04 05 06 07 decision making.
Elseviers clinical reference Full text article The Science & Technology division of Elsevier and decision support products include downloads millions is the worlds leading global academic MDConsult, which now has over eight million journal publisher.
Its customers are the page views per month and more than 1,700 worlds libraries, scientists and professionals, institutional customers.
Health Sciences who rely on Elsevier to provide high quality provides online and multimedia products for content, to review, publish, disseminate, and use by both medical faculties and students preserve research findings, and to create to support core textbooks, including Evolve, innovative workflow tools to improve their which now has more than one million efficiency in using that information.
Each registered users and, through Health year Science & Technology publishes over Education Systems Inc, diagnostic tests for 200,000 new research articles in some 1,100 nursing and allied health markets.
journals and over 1,100 new book titles, as Internationally, Elsevier leverages its print well as secondary material in the form of and online content into new markets through supporting bibliographic data, indexes and foreign language versions.
abstracts, and tertiary information in the form of review and reference works.
Its Elsevier aims to make valued contributions flagship electronic product, ScienceDirect, to the science and health communities is the worlds largest database of scientific, by combining world class content with Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 83 LexisNexis provides legal, tax, regulatory, risk management, information analytics and business information solutions aligned to the workflow of professional, business and government customers internationally productivity enhancing solutions for scientific Increasingly legal information and services LexisNexis portfolio US Legal Markets researchers and health professionals are being delivered online, with considerable US Corporate and Public Markets worldwide.
Its key strategic areas of focus potential to deliver such products and International are: quality of content: customer service solutions in markets outside the United States and customer relations: development of where online migration is at significantly productivity enhancing online solutions: lower levels than in the US legal market.
expanded penetration of high growth In recent years, LexisNexis has, with its markets: and organisational efficiency.
comprehensive US public records databases, expanded in the market for risk management Elseviers print science journals are and information analytics.
This is growing generally sold to libraries on a paid rapidly due to increasing consumer credit subscription basis, with subscription agents losses and fraud and the demand for facilitating the administrative process.
Medical and healthcare print journals are mostly sold to individuals through direct LexisNexis in the United States offers legal mail and learned societies.
Electronic information products in electronic and LexisNexis online revenues % of total LexisNexis revenue products are generally sold directly to print formats to law firms and practitioners, libraries, hospitals, corporations and end law schools, corporate and tax counsel 72 users.
Books are sold through book stores, and federal, state and local governments.
66 64 61 both traditional and online, wholesalers and, Headquartered in New York, the principal 58 56 particularly in medical and healthcare operations are located in Ohio, New York, markets, directly to end users.
Competition Colorado, New Jersey and Florida.
within the science and technology and medical publishing fields is generally on a US Legal Markets Total Solutions help title by title and product by product basis.
legal professionals achieve excellence in the Competing journals, books and databases business and practice of law with products are typically published by learned societies and solutions in Client Development, Research, 02 03 04 05 06 07 and other professional publishers.
Practice Management and Litigation Services.
Client Development solutions include the Martindale Hubbell electronic network that LexisNexis showcases the qualifications and credentials LexisNexis provides legal, tax, regulatory, of over one million lawyers and law firms risk management, information analytics worldwide, a suite of business intelligence and business information solutions aligned tools that help lawyers find and target clients, to the workflow of professional, business and customer relationship management and government customers internationally.
In Research, the division Total revenues for the year ended provides statutes and case law for all 31 December 2007 were 1,594m.
50 US states as well as research, analysis and citation services from Matthew Bender, Legal and regulatory markets worldwide Michie and Shepards.
Practice Management are seeing continuing growth driven by the solutions include time and billing, case increasing level of legislation and litigation, management, cost recovery and document as well as the increasing number of lawyers.
Litigation Services include Additional opportunities are also developing a range of workflow solutions for litigators beyond the core research market, through including electronic discovery, evidence the delivery of value added solutions to management, case analysis, court docket meet demands for greater legal efficiency tracking, e-filing, expert identification and productivity.
Description of business 84 Description of business continued The Corporate and Public Markets division Business to business magazines and offers LexisNexis products and services to community websites provide an effective corporations, federal government agencies marketing channel through which and academic institutions together with advertisers reach their target audiences, news, business, financial and public records increasingly delivered through leading content.
Its risk management and information brands in each sector.
Alongside print analytics applications are designed to assist magazines, demand is growing for online customers in managing risk through fraud products which provide improvements in detection and prevention, identity verification, productivity through quicker and easier pre-employment screening and due diligence.
access to more comprehensive and searchable data.
Business to business Outside the United States, LexisNexis marketing spend has been driven historically International serves markets in Europe, by levels of corporate profitability, which Canada, Africa and Asia Pacific with a range itself has followed overall growth in GDP of local and international legal, tax, regulatory and business investment.
and business information in electronic and print formats.
The most significant businesses Reed Business Information publishes are in the UK and France.
over 400 trade magazines, directories, newsletters and loose leaf publications, and LexisNexis aims to be the leading provider over 200 online communities, jobsites, lead of productivity enhancing information and generation, data and other online services.
information-based workflow solutions in Important magazine titles include Variety its markets.
and Interior Design in the United States: Computer Weekly, Estates Gazette, Flight The key strategic areas of focus are: to International and New Scientist in the United expand the business from research into Total Kingdom: and Elsevier and FEM in the Solutions: to grow a significant business in Netherlands.
Reed Business Information risk management and information analytics: also publishes directories in selected to expand internationally through innovative markets.
Through its Reed Construction Data online products and solutions: and to business, it provides nationwide coverage of continuously improve cost effectiveness.
construction project information for the United States.
LexisNexiss principal competitor in US legal markets is West The Thomson In the majority of Reed Business Corporation, while the principal competitors Informations sectors, strong demand is being in US corporate and public markets are West seen for online services.
Reed Business and Factiva Dow Jones.
Major international Information has been particularly successful competitors include The Thomson in developing online products and services, Corporation, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
which continue to grow at 20% per annum and now account for 30% of Reed Business Information revenues.
These products include Reed Business totaljobs.
com, a major online recruitment site Reed Business provides information and in the UK: ICIS-LOR, a global information and marketing solutions to business professionals pricing service for the petrochemicals sector: in the United States, the United Kingdom, zibb.
nl, a business information service in the continental Europe, Australia and Asia.
com, an online lead division also organises trade exhibitions generation service in the US: and Hotfrog, internationally.
Total revenues for the year a global online business directory.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 85 Business to business magazines and community websites provide an effective marketing channel through which advertisers reach their target audiences.
Reed Exhibitions organises trade exhibitions and conferences internationally, with 500 events in 38 countries Reed Exhibitions organises trade exhibitions Online products and services are generally Reed Business portfolio B2B magazines and conferences internationally, with over sold through dedicated sales forces and B2B online 500 events in 38 countries, attracting over intermediaries, including revenue sharing Exhibitions 90,000 exhibitors and more than six million arrangements with other online service visitors annually.
Its exhibitions and providers, and by direct promotion.
Exhibition conferences encompass a wide range of space is sold through industry specific sectors including IT, manufacturing, and national sales teams.
aerospace, leisure, electronics, food and hospitality, travel and entertainment.
Reed Business Informations titles compete Increasingly Reed Exhibitions is also with a number of publishers on a title by title developing online services to increase basis in individual market sectors, the the effectiveness and efficiency of its largest competitors being: Advanstar, CMP trade shows.
Media United Business Media, Hanley Wood, McGraw Hill, Penton and Nielsen in Reed Business aims to be the first choice of the United States: EMAP Business business professionals for information and Communications, Nielsen and CMP Media in RBI online revenue decision support in its individual markets the United Kingdom: and Wolters Kluwer and % of total RBI revenue and for marketing services.
Its key strategic Nielsen in the Netherlands.
Reed Business 30 areas of focus are: to continue to grow Information competes for online advertising rapidly existing and new online products with other business-to-business websites 24 and services in key markets: to continue to as well as Google and other search engines.
19 develop print franchises through brand Competition in trade exhibitions and extensions and redesign: to further upgrade conferences is very fragmented.
Within 15 the portfolio through investment, acquisition the United States, the main competitor 11 9 and divestment: to expand geographically in is Nielsen.
Outside the United States, fast growing markets: and to continuously competition comes primarily from industry improve organisational effectiveness focused trade associations and convention 02 03 04 05 06 07 through investment in people, further centre and exhibition hall owners.
development of online competencies, and cost reduction programmes.
Business to business magazines are primarily distributed on a controlled circulation basis in the United States, whereby the product is delivered without charge to qualified buyers within a targeted industry group based on circulation lists developed and maintained by the publisher.
Magazines distributed on this basis are wholly dependent on advertising for their revenues.
In the United Kingdom, business magazines are distributed both on a controlled circulation basis and a paid circulation basis.
In the Netherlands, a higher proportion of publications is sold by paid circulation.
Distribution of magazines is conducted primarily through national postal services, supplemented by newsstand sales through unaffiliated wholesalers.
