Reed Elsevier PLC 148 Directors report The directors present their report, together with Elsevier PLC to share this tax benefit between the the financial statements of the group and two sets of shareholders in accordance with the company, for the year ended 31 December 2007. equalisation agreement.
The equalisation adjustment arises on dividends paid by Reed As a consequence of the merger of the companys Elsevier PLC to its shareholders and it reduces businesses with those of Reed Elsevier NV in 1993, the consolidated attributable earnings by 11m described on page 42, the shareholders of Reed 2006: 10m, being 47.1% of the total amount Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV can be of the tax credit.
regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
The Reed Elsevier combined In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit financial statements represent the combined figures are presented as additional performance interests of both sets of shareholders and measures.
These exclude the tax credit equalisation encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group adjustment and, in relation to the results of joint plc, Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their respective ventures, the companys share of the amortisation subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, of acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration together with the parent companies, Reed Elsevier costs, disposals and other non operating items, PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the combined related tax effects and movements in deferred businesses or Reed Elsevier.
This directors taxation assets and liabilities not expected to report and the financial statements of the group crystallise in the near term.
and company should be read in conjunction with the combined financial statements and other Consolidated income statement reports set out on pages 4 to 132.
A review of the Reed Elsevier PLCs shareholders 52.9% share of performance of the Reed Elsevier combined the adjusted profit before tax of the continuing businesses is set out on pages 19 to 34, a operations of the Reed Elsevier combined description of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses was 528m, up from 488m in 2006. businesses is set out on pages 80 to 89, and the Reported profit before tax, including the Reed Reed Elsevier statement on Corporate Elsevier PLC shareholders share of the gain on Responsibility is set out on pages 38 to 41. disposal of Harcourt Education, was 643m 2006: 328m.
In scientific and medical markets, Elsevier Principal activities had a very successful year with good underlying The company is a holding company and its growth driven by new publishing and continued principal investments are its direct 50% expansion of our online information and workflow shareholding in Reed Elsevier Group plc and 39% solutions.
In legal markets, LexisNexis had a good shareholding in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, which year with a successful Total Solutions strategy both are engaged in publishing and information in the US and internationally and good growth in activities and financing activities respectively.
The risk information and analytics markets.
In remaining shareholdings in these two companies business to business markets, Reed Business has are held by Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier PLC performed well this year with a strong also has an indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier performance in the exhibitions business partly NV.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have held back by the cycling out of a number of non retained their separate legal identities and are annual shows and rapid growth in online services publicly held companies.
Reed Elsevier PLCs more than compensating for print declines.
securities are listed in London and New York and Reed Elsevier NVs securities are listed in Reed Elsevier PLCs shareholders share of the Amsterdam and New York.
adjusted profit attributable of the total operations of the combined businesses was 451m, up from Financial statement presentation 421m in 2006.
The companys share of the post The consolidated financial statements of Reed tax charge for amortisation of acquired intangible Elsevier PLC include the 52.9% economic interest assets was 137m, down 34m from 2006, that shareholders have under the equalisation principally as a result of the disposal of Harcourt arrangements in the Reed Elsevier combined Education.
The reported net profit for the year was businesses, accounted for on an equity basis.
624m 2006: 320m reflecting the companys share of the strong operating performance of the Under the terms of the merger agreement, combined businesses and the gain on disposal of dividends paid to Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Harcourt Education.
Elsevier NV shareholders are, other than in special circumstances, equalised at the gross level Adjusted earnings per share increased 7% to 35.9p inclusive of the UK tax credit received by certain 2006: 33.6p.
At constant rates of exchange, the Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
Because of the increase was 12%.
Including the effect of the tax tax credit, Reed Elsevier PLC normally requires credit equalisation as well as the amortisation of proportionately less cash to fund its net dividend acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration than Reed Elsevier NV does to fund its gross costs, non operating items, the disposal of dividend.
An adjustment is therefore required in Harcourt Education and tax adjustments, the basic the consolidated income statement of Reed earnings per share was 49.7p 2006: 25.6p.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 149 Consolidated balance sheet Share capital The consolidated balance sheet of Reed Elsevier During 2007, 18,527,449 ordinary shares in the PLC reflects its 52.9% economic interest in the net company were issued in connection with share assets of Reed Elsevier, which at 31 December option schemes as follows: 2007 amounted to 1,568m 2006: 1,040m.
The 528m increase in net assets reflects the 725,250 under a UK SAYE share option scheme at companys share in the attributable profits of Reed prices between 377.6p and 543.2p per share.
Elsevier, less exchange differences, dividends and share repurchases.
17,802,199 under executive share option schemes at prices between 424.0p and 659.0p per share.
Dividends Given the continued strong performance of the At the 2007 Annual General Meeting a resolution business, the strong cash generation and positive was passed to extend the authority given to the outlook, the board has maintained its progressive company to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary dividend policy that closely aligns dividend growth shares by market purchase.
At 31 December with growth in adjusted earnings.
Accordingly, the 2007, 35,846,500 shares, representing 2.7% of board is recommending a final dividend of 13.6p issued ordinary shares, had been purchased and per ordinary share to be paid on 16 May 2008 to are held in treasury.
A resolution to further extend shareholders on the Register on 2 May 2008. the authority is to be put to the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
The total dividend paid on the ordinary shares in the financial year was 206m 2006: 186m.
Substantial shareholdings At 20 February 2008, the company had received Special distribution and share consolidation notification, in accordance with the Disclosure On 18 January 2008 the company paid a special and Transparency Rules, of the following interests distribution of 82.0p per ordinary share from the in the voting rights of the issued share capital of net proceeds of the disposal of Harcourt the company: Education.
The distribution of 1,041m was recognised when paid.
On the same day, Fidelity International Limited 4.97% Reed Elsevier NV paid a 972m equalised special distribution of a1.767 per ordinary share.
Legal & General Group plc 4.11% The special distribution was accompanied by a Lloyds TSB Group plc 3.97% consolidation of ordinary share capital on the basis 51 of 58 new ordinary shares of 14 116p for every Prudential plc 3.40% 67 existing ordinary shares of 12.5p, being the ratio of the special distribution including that paid by Significant agreements change of control Reed Elsevier NV to the combined market The governing agreement between Reed Elsevier capitalisation of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed PLC and Reed Elsevier NV states that upon a Elsevier NV excluding the 5.8% indirect equity change of control of Reed Elsevier PLC for these interest in Reed Elsevier NV held by Reed Elsevier purposes, the acquisition by a third party of 50% or PLC as at the date of the announcement of the more of the issued share capital having voting special distribution.
rights, should there not be a comparable offer from the offeror for Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Share repurchase programme Elsevier NV may serve notice upon Reed Elsevier The board of Reed Elsevier PLC, together with PLC varying certain provisions of the governing the boards of Reed Elsevier NV, approved the agreement, including the governance and the introduction of an annual share repurchase standstill provisions.
programme in 2006 to further improve capital efficiency.
During 2007 a total of 15.2m of the There are a number of other agreements and companys ordinary shares were repurchased borrowing facilities that either take effect, alter or under the programme at a cost of 92m and are terminate upon a change of control of Reed held in treasury.
None is considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the company.
Parent company financial statements The individual parent company financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC are presented on pages 163 and 164, and continue to be prepared under UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
Parent company shareholders funds as at 31 December 2007 were 2,839m 2006: 2,218m.
Reed Elsevier PLC 150 Directors report continued reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Directors The following served as directors during the year: position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the law.
J Hommen Chairman Sir Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer The directors have general responsibility for M H Armour Chief Financial Officer G J A van fide Aast taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and M W Elliott E Engstrom other irregularities.
L Hook C J A van Lede retired 17 April 2007 Disclosure of information to auditors As part of the process of approving the 2007 R B Polet appointed 17 April 2007 A Prozes financial statements, the directors have taken steps pursuant to section 234ZA of the Companies D E Reid senior independent non-executive director Act 1985 to ensure that they are aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE R W H Stomberg companys auditors are aware of that information.
In that context, so far as the directors are aware, P Tierney retired 30 January 2008 S Zelnick resigned 7 December 2007 there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Biographical details of the directors at the date of Corporate governance this report are given on pages 36 and 37.
The company has complied throughout the period under review with the provisions of the Combined Messrs Davis, Prozes, van fide Aast and Ms Hook will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006 the UK Code.
General Meeting and, being eligible, they will offer themselves for re-election.
The notice period Details of how the principles of the UK Code have applicable to the service contracts of Messrs Davis, van fide Aast and Prozes are set out in the Directors been applied and the directors statement on internal control are set out in the Structure and Remuneration Report on page 67.
Ms Hook does not have a service contract.
Corporate Governance report on pages 42 to 50.
Details of directors remuneration and their Details of the role and responsibilities, membership and activities of the Reed Elsevier interests in the share capital of the company are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on PLC Audit Committee are set out in the Report of the Audit Committees on pages 76 to 78. pages 51 to 75.
Going concern In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, directors are granted an indemnity After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate from the company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is their office.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Charitable and political donations Reed Elsevier companies made donations during Payments to suppliers the year for charitable purposes amounting to 2.6m of which 0.7m was in the United Kingdom.
Reed Elsevier companies agree terms and conditions for business transactions with In the United States, Reed Elsevier companies contributed 60,000 to political parties.
There were suppliers and payment is made on these terms.
The average time taken to pay suppliers was no donations made in the European Union for political purposes.
Statement of directors responsibilities Auditors Resolutions for the re-appointment of Deloitte & The directors are required by English company law to prepare a directors report and financial Touche LLP as auditors of the company and authorising the directors to fix their remuneration statements for each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the will be submitted to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
company and the group, and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial By order of the Board Registered Office statements, the directors ensure that suitable accounting policies, consistently applied and Stephen J Cowden 1-3 Strand supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, have been used, and applicable Secretary London 20 February 2008 WC2N 5JR accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with
