Directors 36 Directors Executive directors 1 2 3 4 5 Non-executive directors 6 78910 11 12 13 Board Committee Membership Audit Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Nominations Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc Corporate Governance Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV All of the executive directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Mrs Dien fide Boer-Kruyt is a member of the supervisory board of Reed Elsevier NV.
All of the other non-executive directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier PLC and members of the supervisory board of Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 37 Executive directors Non-executive directors 10 Robert Polet 52 1 Sir Crispin Davis 58 6 Jan Hommen 64 Dutch Appointed 2007.
President and British Chief Executive Officer since Dutch Chairman since 2005.
Chief Executive Officer of Gucci Group.
Knighted in 2004 for services to Chairman of the supervisory board of Before that spent 26 years at Unilever the information industry.
NonING Group NV, TNT NV, Academisch working in a variety of marketing and executive director of GlaxoSmithKline Ziekenhuis Maastricht and senior executive positions throughout plc.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier was TiasNimbas Business School of the world including President of Chief Executive Officer of Aegis Group Tilburg University.
A member of the Unilevers Worldwide Ice Cream and plc.
From 1990 to 1993 was a member supervisory board of Campina BV.
of the main board at Guinness plc and vice-chairman of the board of Group Managing Director of United management and chief financial 11 David Reid 61 Distillers.
Spent over 20 years at officer of Royal Philips Electronics NV British Appointed 2003.
Senior Procter and Gamble where he held until his retirement in 2005. independent non-executive director senior positions in the UK and since July 2007.
Non-executive Germany, before heading up the 7 Dien fide Boer-Kruyt 63 chairman of Tesco PLC, having North American Food Business.
Member of previously been executive deputy the supervisory boards of Sara Lee chairman until December 2 Mark Armour 53 International a subsidiary of Sara Lee 2003, and finance director from 1985 British Chief Financial Officer since Corporation, Imtech NV and Allianz to 1997.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier as Nederland Group NV.
Member of the previously a non-executive director of Deputy Chief Financial Officer in 1995, supervisory board of the National fide Vere PLC, Legal and General PLC was a partner in Price Waterhouse.
Registry of non-executive directors and Westbury PLC.
and director of the leadership 3 Gerard van fide Aast 50 programmes Call and Ravel, for 12 Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Dutch Chief Executive Officer of the leaders in business, government and 65 Reed Business division since 2000. universities.
Chairman of Member of the supervisory board of the Audit Committee.
Non-executive Oc N. V. Prior to joining Reed Elsevier 8 Mark Elliott 58 chairman of Aviva PLC and Aegis was Vice President and General American Appointed 2003.
Chairman Group plc and a non-executive director Manager of Compaqs Enterprise of the Remuneration Committee since of BG Group plc.
Member of the House business in Europe, Middle East July 2007.
General Manager IBM of Lords since 1999.
Was chairman of and Africa.
Non-executive KPMG Worldwide until 1999, having director of Group 4 Securicor PLC.
4 Erik Engstrom 44 Held a number of positions with IBM, Swedish Chief Executive Officer of including Managing Director of IBM 13 Rolf Stomberg 67 the Elsevier division since 2004.
Prior Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Was senior to joining Reed Elsevier was a partner Served on the board of IBAX, a independent non-executive director at General Atlantic Partners.
Before hospital software company jointly and Chairman of the Remuneration that was president and chief operating owned by IBM and Baxter Healthcare, Committee until July 2007.
Chairman officer of Random House.
Began his and as chairman of the Deans of the supervisory board of Lanxess career as a consultant with McKinsey.
Advisory council of the Kelly School of AG and Francotype AG.
Non-executive Served as a non-executive director Business, Indiana University.
director of Smith & Nephew PLC, AOA of Eniro AB.
Severstal, TNT NV, Deutsche BP AG, 9 Lisa Hook 50 HOYER GmbH and Biesterfeld AG.
President Formerly a director of The British Canadian Chief Executive Officer of and Chief Operating Officer of NeuStar Petroleum Company plc where he the LexisNexis division since 2000.
Inc. Before that was President and spent 27 years, latterly as Chief Non-executive director of Cott Chief Executive Officer at Sun Rocket Executive of BP Oil International.
Prior to joining Reed Inc. Was President of AOL Broadband, Elsevier was an Executive Vice Premium and Developer Services.
President with the West Group, Prior to joining AOL, was a founding part of the Thomson Corporation partner at Brera Capital Partners LLC.
and prior to that was Group President Previously was Chief Operating Officer of Southam Inc. of Time Warner Telecom.
Has served as Senior Advisor to the Federal Communications Commission Chairman and a Senior Counsel to Viacom Cable.
