Resources and investment 86 Resources and investment ScienceDirect is the worlds largest database of scientific, technical and medical journal articles.
com is recognised as one of the foremost online research tools for practising lawyers, providing subscribers with access to seven billion searchable documents Reed Elseviers most important resources Investment are its intangible publishing assets and its Reed Elsevier maintains and enhances workforce of some 31,500 employees.
the value of its intangible assets through continuous investment in the brands and Market leading brands imprints, new publishing, innovative Reed Elseviers businesses own numerous product and market development, and in market leading brands, imprints, titles and the technology platforms and publishing technology platforms.
infrastructure on which they are based.
Increasingly, investment is being made Within Elsevier, ScienceDirect is the worlds in developing digital workflow solutions.
largest database of scientific, technical and medical journal articles.
Many of Elseviers Elsevier has made substantial investments journals are the foremost publications in in health information segments, including their field and a primary point of reference a wide range of electronic solutions that for new research.
The CrossFire databases improve clinical outcomes and reduce costs represent the worlds largest compilation of for payers, physicians and hospitals: deliver chemical reactions.
Users of MDConsult, enriched learning experiences for nursing Elseviers online clinical reference tool, trainees and practitioners: and increase the conduct 1.5 million searches per month effectiveness of business development and and view more than eight million pages of promotional activities for pharmaceutical clinical content.
The Lancet has been companies.
Other significant investments in publishing medical research, news and recent years have been in the ScienceDirect analysis since 1823.
Similarly, Elseviers platform, digitisation of the archive of almost booklist contains numerous pre-eminent nine million research articles, e-books, the and long standing titles.
Scopus database, online editorial and production systems, and industry-specific Within LexisNexis, lexis.
com is recognised solutions for corporate R&D markets.
as one of the foremost online research tools for practising lawyers, providing subscribers In LexisNexis, substantial investment has with access to seven billion searchable been made in Total Solutions offerings documents.
The Shepards Citations Service such as Total Litigator and Total Practice is a well known and highly reputed reference Advantage.
Alongside this, major resource Shepardizing is a common investments have been made in technology, process for US lawyers checking the in particular in online research authority of cases or statutory references.
functionalities and in the development of the global online delivery platform.
These Reed Businesss well known magazine titles investments are critical to providing such as Variety, Estates Gazette and Elsevier integrated workflow solutions to our are widely read for their authoritative content customers.
Significant investment has also and up to date industry intelligence, while been made in new content development and many of the Reed Exhibitions shows, which in expanded sales and marketing activities.
include World Travel Market, Mipim, MIDEM, Investment in recent years in a major second Batimat and the JCK Merchandise Show, data centre has expanded operational are acknowledged as the premier marketing capabilities and is providing greater flexibility events in their field.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 87 Within Reed Business, the focus has been on Programme is also the primary tool for developing new online products and services, assessing and planning employee training.
including webzines, recruitment sites, lead generation services, search and subscription Reed Elseviers remuneration policies are information and data services.
Ongoing designed to attract, retain and motivate investment includes the continued employees of the highest calibre and development of our webzines interaction experience needed to shape and execute with online communities, ongoing strategy.
The remuneration packages of the improvements in our search engine directors and senior executives comprise optimisation and marketing capabilities, a balance between fixed remuneration and vertical and geographical expansion of variable performance related incentives, Totaljobs Group, and the geographical roll including a variable annual cash bonus based out of our online business directory HotFrog.
on achievement of financial performance Reed Exhibitions has continued to expand its measures and individual key performance portfolio through new launches and objectives, and longer term incentive geographical expansion and is increasingly schemes.
Pension scheme membership is developing new online opportunities.
offered to all employees in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the United States These investments are largely embedded and a number of other countries.
within the cost base of the businesses as new product development and market initiatives are a continuous activity.
Workforce Workforce Editorial Reed Elseviers workforce is highly skilled Sales, Marketing and and a large proportion are graduates.
It Customer Services IT includes some 5,000 IT specialists and Admin and other developers, 8,000 editorial staff, and some 11,000 specialist marketing, sales and customer service staff.
Reed Elsevier aims to be an employer of choice, known for its best practices in recruiting and developing employees.
We seek to employ a workforce which reflects the diversity of our customers and communities.
Our labour and employment practices are consistent with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact regarding fair and non-discriminatory labour practices.
Every two years or so we conduct a global employee opinion survey to identify areas for improvement.
Every employee in the company takes part in the annual Personal Development Programme, which reviews skills and performance and identifies opportunities for recognition and advancement.
