Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 27 Chief Financial Officers report Revenue m Reed Elsevier combined businesses % change at 4,584 4,509 2007 2006 % constant Reported figures m m change currencies Revenue 4,584 4,509 2% 6% Operating profit 888 837 6% 12% Profit before tax 812 678 20% 26% 2% Net borrowings 492 2,314 at reported currencies Adjusted figures 6% Operating profit 1,137 1,081 5% 11% 06 07 at constant currencies Profit before tax 998 923 8% 13% Operating cash flow 1,108 1,086 2% 6% Operating margin 24.8% 24.0% Operating cash flow conversion 97% 100% Adjusted figures are presented as additional performance measures and are stated before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration costs, disposals and other non operating items, related tax effects and movements on deferred tax balances not expected to crystallise in the near term.
Reconciliations between the reported and adjusted figures are provided in Revenue by division the notes to the combined financial statements.
Elsevier 33% LexisNexis 35% Reed Business 32% Acquisition integration costs amounted to Currency The average US dollar exchange rate in 2007 20m 2006: 23m.
Disposals and other non operating items within continuing operations was significantly weaker than in 2006, down 9% against sterling.
The reported results are comprise gains on disposals of businesses and investments of 65m and fair value therefore significantly impacted by currency translation effects.
decreases in the portfolio of venture capital investments of 2m.
Income statement The reported profit before tax, including Revenue from continuing operations ie excluding Harcourt Education at 4,584m amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition integration costs and non increased by 2%.
At constant exchange rates, revenue was 6% higher, both including and operating items, at 812m, was up 20%.
The reported tax credit of 82m compares with a charge of 86m in the prior year.
The Reported figures Continuing operations current year credit includes the benefit of Revenue by geography 223m in respect of previously unrecognised Reported operating profit from continuing North America 49% operations, after amortisation of acquired deferred tax assets and capital losses arising Rest of Europe 20% Rest of World 14% in continuing operations, which are realisable intangible assets and acquisition integration UK 13% costs, at 888m, was up 6%.
The increase as a result of the disposal of Harcourt Netherlands 4% Education.
The reported tax credit also reflects the strong underlying operating performance, partly offset by currency reflects movements on deferred tax balances arising on unrealised exchange differences on translation effects.
These deferred tax movements are recognised in the The amortisation charge in respect of acquired intangible assets, including the income statement but are not expected to crystallise in the foreseeable future.
share of amortisation in joint ventures, amounted to 221m, up 10m, principally as a result of recent acquisitions, partly offset by currency translation effects.
Operating and financial review 28 Chief Financial Officers report continued Adjusted operating profit m Discontinued operations had a 0.1 percentage point adverse effect on The reported operating profit of Harcourt overall margin growth.
Currency translation 1,137 1,081 Education of 112m was up 69m on the mix and the effect of the science journal prior year, principally reflecting the cessation currency hedging programme reduced of amortisation of acquired intangible assets margin by 0.2 percentage points.
The net following the disposal announcement.
benefit of the Elsevier science journal hedging programme is lower in 2007 than in 5% The gain on the disposal of the Harcourt US 2006 as the effect of the weaker US dollar is at reported currencies Schools business and those Harcourt incorporated within the three year rolling International businesses completed in the hedging programme.
Taxes on the completed 06 07 at constant currencies disposals were 380m, excluding the tax Net finance costs, at 139m, were 19m credits included in continuing operations lower than in the prior year largely due to described above.
currency translation effects and the benefit of proceeds from the disposal of Harcourt Total operations Education businesses.
Adjusted profit before tax m The reported attributable profit of 1,200m 998 compares with a reported attributable profit Adjusted profit before tax from continuing 923 of 623m in 2006, reflecting the strong operations was 998m, up 8% compared to operating performance and the part disposal the prior year.
At constant exchange rates, of Harcourt Education.
adjusted profit before tax was up 13%.
8% Adjusted figures The effective tax rate on adjusted earnings at reported currencies Adjusted figures are used by Reed Elsevier for the continuing businesses, at 23%, was as additional performance measures and are similar to the rate in 2006.
The effective tax 13% stated before amortisation of acquired rate on adjusted earnings excludes 06 07 at constant currencies intangible assets and acquisition integration movements in deferred taxation assets costs, and, in respect of earnings, reflect a and liabilities that are not expected to tax rate that excludes the effect of crystallise in the near term, and more movements in deferred taxation assets and closely aligns with cash tax costs.
Adjusted liabilities that are not expected to crystallise operating profits and taxation are also in the near term.
Profit and loss on disposals grossed up for the equity share of taxes and other non operating items are also in joint ventures.
excluded from the adjusted figures.
Comparison at constant exchange rates uses Discontinued operations 2006 average and hedge exchange rates.
Adjusted operating profit from discontinued operations, at 121m, was down 8m, largely Continuing operations as a result of the timing of disposals and Adjusted operating profit from continuing currency translation effects.
At constant exchange rates, adjusted operating Total operations profits were up 11%, or 10% excluding The adjusted profit attributable to acquisitions and disposals.
shareholders, including discontinued operations, was 852m, up 7% compared to The net pension expense including the the prior year.
At constant exchange rates, unallocated net pension financing credit was adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 49m, down 16m from 2006, principally was up 13%.
reflecting higher returns on plan assets and curtailments.
The charge for share based The effective tax rate on the profit from total payments was 38m 2006: 44m.
operations was 23.6%, slightly lower than the Restructuring costs, other than in respect 24.1% effective rate for 2006. of acquisition integration, were 16m 2006: 18m.
Cash flows and debt Adjusted operating cash flow from continuing Overall adjusted operating margin for the operations was 1,108m, up 2%, or 6% at continuing businesses was up 0.8 percentage constant currencies.
The rate of conversion points at 24.8% reflecting the good revenue of adjusted operating profits into cash flow growth and cost efficiency.
The cycling out of for the continuing businesses was high at biennial joint venture exhibitions, which 97% 2006: 100% reflecting the continued contribute to profit but not to revenues, focus on management of working capital.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 29 Capital expenditure included within adjusted Harcourt Education, which were included in Currency profile adjusted operating cash flow from continuing the special distribution to shareholders of profit before tax US Dollar 38% operations was 145m 2006: 167m, the parent companies in January 2008.
After Euro 34% including 80m in respect of capitalised adjusting net debt for the Harcourt disposal Sterling 20% Other 8% development costs included within intangible proceeds and taking into account interest assets.
Spend on acquisitions was 327m rate and currency derivatives, a total of 54% 2006: 163m.
Including deferred of Reed Elseviers gross borrowings consideration payable, an amount of 262m equivalent to 69% of net borrowings were was capitalised as acquired intangible assets at fixed rates and had a weighted average and 101m as goodwill.
Acquisition remaining life of 5.5 years and interest integration spend in respect of these and coupon of 5.3%.
other recent acquisitions amounted to 19m.
Proceeds from disposals of businesses and The net pension surplus, ie pension assets other assets amounted to 86m.
less pension obligations, at 31 December 2007 was 50m which compares with a net Free cash flow from continuing operations deficit as at 31 December 2006 of 236m.
after interest and taxation was 717m, The improvement principally arises from down 39m, reflecting higher tax paid than increases in long term corporate bond yields Use of free cash flow in 2006 which saw certain tax refunds.
used to discount scheme obligations.
Dividends 58% Cash available for acquisitions14% Dividends paid to shareholders in the year Buybacks 28% amounted to 416m 2006: 371m.
Share Capital employed and returns repurchases by the parent companies The capital employed in the continuing amounted to 199m 2006: 217m.
businesses at 31 December 2007 was Additionally, shares of the parent companies 7,825m 2006: 7,266m, after adding back were purchased by the employee benefit accumulated amortisation of acquired trust to meet future obligations in respect intangible assets and goodwill.
The increase of share based remuneration for 74m 2006: of 559m principally reflects the impact of 68m.
Net proceeds from share issuance acquisitions and movement of the pension under share option programmes were schemes into a net surplus, partially offset 177m 2006: 93m.
Cash proceeds from the sale of discontinued The return on average capital employed for operations in the year were 1,933m.
the continuing businesses in the year was 11.8% 2006: 11.0%: total operations 9.8%.
Return on capital Net borrowings at 31 December 2007 were This return is based on adjusted operating employed % 492m 2006: 2,314m.
The decrease of profits, less tax at the effective rate, and the 1,822m since 31 December 2006 reflects average of the capital employed at the 11.8 11.0 the proceeds received from the part disposal beginning and end of the year retranslated at of Harcourt Education, proceeds from share average exchange rates.
The improvement in issuances and the benefit of free cash flow, the year reflects the good underlying profit partially offset by dividends, share buy backs growth and low capital requirements.
Currency translation differences increased net borrowings by Acquisitions typically dilute the overall return 18m, reflecting the strengthening of the initially, but build quickly to deliver longer euro during the year against sterling, mostly term returns well over Reed Elseviers 06 07 0.8pts offset by the weakening of the US dollar.
The recent acquisitions made in the years 2005 to 2007 On a proforma basis, net debt as at are delivering post tax returns in 2007 of 31 December 2007 adjusted for the 10%, 7% and proforma 5% respectively and aggregate special distribution paid to continue to grow well.
shareholders of 2,013m on 18 January 2008 would have been 2,505m.
Accounting policies Introduction Gross borrowings after fair value The accounting policies of the Reed Elsevier adjustments at 31 December 2007 amounted combined businesses are described in the to 3,129m, denominated mostly in US combined financial statements.
The fair value of related derivatives Elsevier combined financial statements and was 170m.
Cash balances totalled 2,467m the consolidated financial statements of invested in short term deposits and Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are marketable securities including 1,933m presented in accordance with International proceeds received from the part disposal of Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Operating and financial review 30 Chief Financial Officers report continued The most significant accounting policies in from royalty and comparable market determining the financial condition and transactions.
Acquired intangible assets are results of the combined businesses, and capitalised and amortised systematically those requiring the most subjective or over their estimated useful lives, subject to complex judgement, relate to the valuation annual impairment review.
Appropriate of goodwill and intangible assets, share amortisation periods are selected based on based remuneration, pensions and taxation.
assessments of the longevity of the brands and imprints, the market positions of the Revenue recognition policies, while an area acquired assets and the technological and of management focus, are generally competitive risks that they face.
Certain straightforward in application as the timing intangible assets in relation to acquired of product or service delivery and customer science and medical publishing businesses acceptance for the various revenue types have been determined to have indefinite can be readily determined.
The longevity of these assets is product returns are deducted from revenues evidenced by their long established and well based on historical return rates.
Where regarded brands and imprints, and their sales consist of two or more components characteristically stable market positions.
that operate independently, revenue is recognised as each component is The carrying amounts of goodwill and completed by performance, based on indefinite lived intangible assets in each attribution of relative value.
business are regularly reviewed for impairment at least twice a year.
The Pre-publication costs incurred in the carrying amounts of all other intangible creation of content prior to production and assets are reviewed where there are publication are deferred and expensed over indications of possible impairment.
An their estimated useful lives based on sales impairment review involves a comparison profiles.
Such costs typically comprise of the carrying value of the asset with direct internal labour costs and externally estimated values in use based on latest commissioned editorial and other fees.
Key Estimated useful lives generally do not areas of judgement in estimating the values exceed five years.
Annual reviews are in use of businesses are the forecast long carried out to assess the recoverability of term growth rates and the appropriate carrying amounts.
discount rates to be applied to forecast cash flows.
Based on the latest value in use Development spend embraces investment in calculations, no goodwill or intangible assets new product and other initiatives, ranging were impaired as at 31 December 2007. from the building of new online delivery platforms, to launch costs of new services, Share based remuneration to building new infrastructure applications.
Share based remuneration is accounted for Launch costs and other operating expenses in accordance with IFRS 2 Share Based of new products and services are expensed Payment and is determined based on the as incurred.
The costs of building product fair value of an award at the date of grant, applications and infrastructure are and is spread over the vesting period on a capitalised as intangible assets and straight line basis, taking into account the amortised over their estimated useful lives.
number of shares that are expected to vest.
Impairment reviews are carried out annually.
The fair value of awards is determined at the date of grant by use of a binomial or Goodwill and intangible assets Monte Carlo simulation model as Reed Elseviers accounting policy is that, on appropriate, which requires judgements to acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the be made regarding share price volatility, purchase consideration is allocated dividend yield, risk free rates of return and between the net tangible and intangible expected option lives.
The number of assets other than goodwill on a fair value awards that are expected to vest requires basis, with any excess purchase judgements to be made regarding forfeiture consideration representing goodwill.
The rates and the extent to which performance valuation of intangible assets represents the conditions will be met.
These assumptions estimated economic value in use, using are determined in conjunction with standard valuation methodologies, including independent actuaries based on historical as appropriate, discounted cash flow, relief data and trends.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 31 Maturity profile of Pensions Financial instruments are used to finance borrowings Pension costs are accounted for in the Reed Elsevier businesses and to hedge Year 3 accordance with IAS19 Employee Benefits.
Reed Elseviers businesses do Years 4-5 not enter into speculative transactions.
The Years 6-10 After 10 years Accounting for defined benefit pension main treasury risks faced by Reed Elsevier schemes involves judgement about are liquidity risk, interest rate risk and uncertain events, including the life foreign currency risk.
The boards of the expectancy of the members, salary and parent companies agree overall policy pension increases, inflation, the return on guidelines for managing each of these risks scheme assets and the rate at which the and the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc future pension payments are discounted.
and Elsevier Finance SA agree policies Estimates for these factors are used in in conformity with parent company determining the pension cost and liabilities guidelines for their respective business and reported in the financial statements.
These policies are best estimates of future developments are summarised below.
made in conjunction with independent actuaries.
Each scheme is subject to a Liquidity periodic review by the independent actuaries.
Reed Elsevier maintains a range of borrowing facilities and debt programmes For defined contribution schemes, the net to fund its requirements, at short notice and cost represents contributions payable.
The significance of Reed Elsevier Group plcs US operations Taxation means that the majority of debt is The Reed Elsevier combined businesses seek denominated in US dollars and is raised in to organise their affairs in a tax efficient the US debt markets.
A mixture of short manner, taking account of the jurisdictions in term and long term debt is utilised and which they operate.
A number of acquisitions Reed Elsevier maintains a maturity profile and disposals have been made in recent years to facilitate refinancing.
Reed Elseviers giving rise to complex tax issues requiring policy is that no more than US$1.0bn of management to use its judgement to make term debt issues should mature in any various tax determinations.
In addition, minimum Elsevier is confident that tax returns have levels of borrowings with maturities over been appropriately compiled, the application three years and five years are specified, and interpretation of tax legislation is subject depending on the level of net debt.
to uncertainty and there are risks that further tax may be payable on certain transactions or After taking account of the maturity of that the deductibility of certain expenditure for committed bank facilities that back short tax purposes may be disallowed.
Reed term borrowing and after utilising available Elseviers policy is to make provision for tax cash resources excluding 1,933m of cash uncertainties where it is considered probable received from the part disposal of Harcourt that tax payments may arise.
Education, which was included in the special distribution paid to shareholders of Reed Elseviers policy in respect of deferred the parent companies in January 2008 at taxation is to provide in full for all taxable 31 December 2007, no borrowings mature in temporary differences using the balance the next two years, 27% of borrowings sheet liability method.
Deferred tax assets are mature in the third year, 29% in the fourth only recognised to the extent that they are and fifth years, 31% in the sixth to tenth considered recoverable based on forecasts of years, and 13% beyond the tenth year.
available taxable profits against which they can be utilised over the near term.
At 31 December 2007, Reed Elsevier had access to US$3.0bn 2006: US$3.0bn of Treasury policies committed bank facilities, of which US$85m The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed was drawn.
These facilities principally Elsevier NV have requested that Reed provide back up for short term debt but also Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed security of funding for future acquisition Finance BV have due regard to the best spend in the event that commercial paper interests of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed markets are not available.
All these Elsevier NV shareholders in the formulation committed facilities expire within two to of treasury policies.
three years 2006: two to three years.
Operating and financial review 32 Chief Financial Officers report continued The US$4.1bn acquisition of ChoicePoint Inc, where significant translation exposures announced by Reed Elsevier on 21 February exist, most notably US dollars.
2008, will be financed initially from new bank facilities of up to US$4.65bn which three Currency exposures on transactions major banks have committed to underwrite denominated in a foreign currency are and arrange.
This initial funding will be required to be hedged using forward refinanced later through the issuance of contracts.
In addition, recurring transactions term debt.
and future investment exposures may be hedged, within defined limits, in advance of Interest rate exposure management becoming contractual.
The precise policy Reed Elseviers interest rate exposure differs according to the specific management policy is aimed at reducing the circumstances of the individual businesses.
exposure of the combined businesses to Expected future net cash flows may be changes in interest rates.
The proportion of covered for sales expected for up to the next interest expense that is fixed on net debt is 12 months 50 months for Elsevier science determined by reference to the level of and medical subscription businesses up to interest cover.
Reed Elsevier uses fixed rate limits staggered by duration.
Cover takes the term debt, interest rate swaps, forward rate form of foreign exchange forward contracts.
agreements and a range of interest rate options to manage the exposure.
Interest As at 31 December 2007, the amount of rate derivatives are used only to hedge outstanding foreign exchange cover designated an underlying risk and no net market against future transactions was US$1.4bn positions are held.
At 31 December 2007, after taking account Capital management of interest rate and currency derivatives, The capital structure is managed to US$3.3bn of Reed Elseviers net debt was support Reed Elseviers objective of denominated in US dollars and net interest maximising long-term shareholder value expense was fixed or capped on through ready access to debt and capital approximately US$2.3bn of forecast US markets, cost effective borrowing and dollar net debt for the next 12 months.
This flexibility to fund business and acquisition fixed or capped net debt reduces to opportunities whilst maintaining approximately US$1.3bn by the end of the appropriate leverage to optimise the cost third year and reduces further thereafter of capital.
with all but US$0.1bn of fixed rate term debt not swapped back to floating rate having Over the long term Reed Elsevier targets matured by the end of 2012. cash flow conversion the proportion of adjusted operating profits converted into At 31 December 2007, fixed rate US dollar operating cash flow and credit metrics to term debt not swapped back to floating reflect this aim and that are consistent with rate amounted to US$1.2bn 2006: a solid investment grade credit rating.
US$1.3bn and had a weighted average life Levels of net debt should not exceed those remaining of 8.1 years 2006: 8.3 years and consistent with such a rating other than for a weighted average interest coupon of 5.9% relatively short periods of time, for instance 2006: 6.0%.
Interest rate derivatives in following an acquisition.
The principal place at 31 December 2007, which fix or cap metrics utilised are free cash flow after the interest cost on an additional US$1.1bn interest, tax and dividends to net debt, net 2006: US$1.5bn of variable rate US dollar debt to Ebitda earnings before interest, debt, have a weighted average maturity of taxation, depreciation and amortisation 1.1 years 2006: 1.4 years and a weighted and Ebitda to net interest.
Cash flow average interest rate of 4.8% 2006: 4.5%.
conversion of 90% or higher and a net debt to Ebitda target, over the long term, in the Foreign currency exposure management range of 2x to 3x are consistent with the Translation exposures arise on the earnings rating target.
and net assets of business operations in countries other than those of each parent Reed Elseviers use of cash reflects these company.
These exposures are hedged, objectives through a progressive dividend to a significant extent, by a policy of policy that aligns dividend growth with denominating borrowings in currencies earnings growth, an annual share Reed Else Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 vier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 33 repurchase programme and selective Major developments acquisitions.
It aims to distribute 70% to In 2007, EFSA issued a CHF350m bond in the 80% of free cash flow to shareholders, over Swiss public market and concluded several the long term, through dividends and share term financing agreements.
It renegotiated a buybacks, whilst retaining the balance number of banking and cash management sheet strength to maintain access to the arrangements in Continental Europe and most cost effective sources of borrowing Asia and continued to provide advice to Reed and to support Reed Elseviers strategic Elsevier Group plc companies on treasury ambition in evolving publishing and matters, including interest and foreign information markets.
currency exposures particularly in the context of the disposal of the Harcourt The balance of long term debt, short term Education businesses.
debt and committed bank facilities is managed to provide security of funding, The average balance of cash under taking into account the cash generation of management by EFSA in 2007, on behalf the business and the uncertain size and of Reed Elsevier Group plc and its parent timing of acquisition spend.
There were no changes to Reed Elseviers approach to capital management during EPSA acquired additional intangible assets the year.
in the period, including the rights to the Beilstein chemical compound database.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV Structure Liabilities and assets Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the Dutch parent At the end of 2007, 89% 2006: 88% of ERFs company of the Elsevier Reed Finance BV gross assets were held in US dollars and group ERF, is directly owned by Reed 10% 2006: 10% in euros, including $8.5bn Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
ERF 2006: $8.4bn anda0.7bn 2006:a0.8bn in provides treasury, finance, intellectual loans to Reed Elsevier Group plc property and insurance services to the subsidiaries.
Loans made to Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses through Group plc businesses are funded from equity, its subsidiaries in Switzerland: Elsevier long term debt of $1.3bn and short term debt Finance SA EFSA, Elsevier Properties SA of $1.1bn backed by committed bank EPSA and Elsevier Risks SA ERSA.
Long term debt is derived from a These three Swiss companies are organised Swiss domestic public bond issue, bilateral under one Swiss holding company, which is term loans and private placements.
Short in turn owned by Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
term debt is primarily derived from euro and US commercial paper programmes.
Activities EFSA, EPSA and ERSA each focus on their own specific area of expertise.
EFSA is the principal treasury centre for the combined businesses.
It is responsible for all aspects of treasury advice and support for Reed Elsevier Group plcs businesses operating in Continental Europe, South America, the Pacific Rim, India, China and certain other territories, and undertakes foreign exchange and derivatives dealing services for the whole of Reed Elsevier.
EFSA also arranges or directly provides Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses with financing for acquisitions and product development and manages cash pools and investments on their behalf.
EPSA is responsible for the management of tangible and intangible property rights whilst ERSA is responsible for insurance activities relating to risk retention.
