Key performance measures 90 Key performance measures The key financial performance measures Underlying growth constant currency used by Reed Elsevier and the bases of their growth rates excluding acquisitions calculation are as follows: and disposals.
Revenue as reported in the financial Return on capital employed adjusted statements.
operating profit less taxation at the effective rate for the year expressed Adjusted operating profit reported as a percentage of average capital operating profit before amortisation of employed, being the aggregate of acquired intangible assets, acquisition gross goodwill and acquired intangible integration costs, and share of taxation assets, property, plant and equipment, of joint ventures.
internally developed intangible assets, working capital, net pension assets, Adjusted operating margin adjusted less provisions.
operating profit expressed as a percentage of revenue.
The source data for calculating the key performance measures is obtained from the Adjusted profit before tax reported Reed Elsevier financial reporting system.
profit before tax before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition The adjusted figures are adopted as key integration costs, share of taxation of performance measures since they measure joint ventures, disposals and other non performance without reference to non cash operating items.
amortisation of intangible assets, mostly acquired in prior periods, which has no Effective tax rate on adjusted profit operational relevance to current before tax reflects the tax rate performance.
Acquisition integration excluding movements on deferred tax expenses are excluded since they are a direct balances not expected to crystallise in function of the relevant acquisition activity the near term, more closely aligning with and not a reflection of ongoing operational cash taxes payable, and includes the performance.
Underlying growth, excluding benefit of deductible tax amortisation on acquisitions and disposals, is measured to acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
give a proper assessment of year on year organic growth without distortion for part Adjusted profit attributable to year contributions.
Constant currency growth shareholders reported profit is measured to give a better reflection of year attributable to shareholders before on year performance before translation and amortisation of acquired intangible other currency effects in arriving at the assets, acquisition integration costs, reported figures in the reporting currencies disposals and other non operating items, of the parent companies.
related tax effects and movements on deferred tax balances not expected to Performance in respect of the principal key crystallise in the near term.
performance measures for Reed Elsevier is described in the Chairman and Chief Adjusted earnings per share adjusted Executives Report and the Operating and profit attributable to shareholders of Financial Review above.
each parent company divided by the respective average number of ordinary The derivations of adjusted operating profit, shares in issue in the period.
adjusted profit before tax, adjusted profit attributable, and adjusted operating cash flow Adjusted operating cash flow cash are disclosed in the notes to the combined generated from operations plus dividends financial statements.
The derivation of the from joint ventures less net capital adjusted earnings per share of the parent expenditure on property, plant and companies is shown in the notes to the equipment and internally developed Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV intangible assets, and excluding payments consolidated financial statements.
in relation to acquisition integration costs.
Constant currency growth growth rates calculated using the prior year average and hedge exchange rates.
