Directors Report Corporate Governance Board of directors An experienced team The Board has a blend of experience demonstrating both strength and depth.
Martin Robinson Chairman Chief Financial officer Independent non-executive director John 63 was appointed Chairman in Stephen 49 joined Regus as Chief Martin 45 was appointed a July 2002 and had previously been an Financial officer in October 2005.
Prior to non-executive director of Regus in independent director since joining Regus Regus, he was Group Financial Controller August 2002.
He is currently an independent of Tarmac plc and Finance Director at Center Parcs UK, Chairman of Alta director of Diploma plc, Minerva plc, both Synstar plc and lastminute.
Velocita, a director of Figaro LLP and Rotork plc and SDL plc.
A Chartered Stephen is a Chartered Accountant.
a director of the Supervisory Board of Accountant, he was, until 2007, Chairman EuroDisney SCA.
Rudy Lobo of Crest Nicholson plc, and prior to Chairman of Health Club Holdings and Chief Operating officer that had been a Managing Director of is a former CEO and Chairman of Center Rudy 52 joined Regus in 1992 and took County Natwest and Deputy Chairman Parcs Europe.
He has previously held on the role of Chief Operating officer in of Beazer plc.
John is Chairman of the senior management positions with October 2005, having previously been Nomination Committee.
Scottish and Newcastle plc and Sara Lee Group Finance Director.
In his role, he Corporation and worked as a Management 2.
Mark Dixon is responsible for commercial operations, Consultant for four years with McKinsey Chief Executive officer human resources and for directing & Co. Inc. Martin is Chairman of the Mark 48 founded Regus in 1989 and has Reguss IT and e-business strategy.
been Chief Executive for over 18 years, Rudy is also a director and Trustee of a, b, c leading the Groups worldwide expansion the charity Great Causes Ltd.
Stephen East programme and the development of Rudy was Head of Finance and Group Independent non-executive director pioneering workplace solutions.
Prior Company Secretary of Medicom Stephen 50 was appointed a to 2007, Mark was located in the USA International Ltd, a publisher of medical non-executive director in 2005. overseeing the integration of the HQ journals.
Stephen is currently Finance Director Global Workplaces acquisition and has at Woolworths Group plc.
Roger Orf now relocated to Europe to oversee he ran his own consultancy business Independent senior non-executive the development of the business in the and held senior positions with Redland director UK and its full integration back into the PLC and MEPC plc.
Stephen is a Roger 55 was appointed a non-executive Group.
Prior to Regus, he established Chartered Accountant and Immediate director of Regus in 1998.
Roger is currently businesses in the retail and wholesale Past President of the Association of Managing Director of Citi Property food industry.
He was formerly Head of non-executive director of Star Energy European Operations for Lone Star, an Group plc until 29 February 2008. investment company.
Prior to this, Roger Stephen became Chairman of the made investments for his own account, Audit Committee on 10 March 2008. managed investments on behalf of Apollo Real Estate Advisors and was in charge Notes: of Goldman Sachs European real estate a Member of the Audit Committee department.
Roger was Chairman of the b Member of the Remuneration Committee Audit Committee until 10 March 2008. c Member of the Nomination Committee Regus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25
