DIRECTORS From left: David Snowden, Joe McGeehan, Allen Roberts, John Deer, Ben Taylor, Terry Garthwaite, Sir David McMurtry and Geoff McFarland Sir David McMurtry Ben Taylor, CEng, FIMechE CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng Assistant Chief Executive, age 58, has been involved in the field Chairman and Chief Executive, age 67, was employed by Rolls-Royce of metrology all his working life, after graduating in mechanical plc, Bristol, for 17 years, latterly holding the positions of Deputy Chief engineering and design from Pennsylvania State University.
Before Designer and Assistant Chief of Engine Design of all Rolls-Royce joining Renishaw Inc as President in 1985, he was the Director of engines manufactured at Filton in Bristol.
After inventing the original Engineering at Sheffield Measurement, USA.
Ben was appointed probe in the early 1970s, Sir David founded Renishaw in 1973 with to the Board of Renishaw plc in 1987 and is responsible for group John Deer.
His CBE was awarded for services to Science and marketing, international operations and human resources.
He serves Technology and he was appointed a Royal Designer for Industry RDI on various metrology committees and other professional associations in 1989.
He is a visiting Professor of Huddersfield University and has and is a Chartered Engineer, a fellow of the Institute of Mechanical been awarded an honorary Doctorate of Engineering at the University Engineers and a Liveryman of The Worshipful Company of Scientific of Birmingham and honorary degrees of Doctor of Engineering at Instrument Makers.
Heriot-Watt University and Bristol University.
Sir David is a Chartered Allen Roberts, FCA Engineer, a Fellow of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers, a Fellow of Group Finance Director, age 58, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered the American Society of Manufacturing Engineers and a Fellow of the Accountants in England and Wales.
Before joining Renishaw in 1979, Royal Academy of Engineering.
In addition to his role as Chairman and he was employed for 11 years by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
He Chief Executive, Sir David also has responsibility for group technology.
Allen heads group finance, business John Deer systems and Wotton Travel Ltd and is the Company Secretary.
Deputy Chairman, age 69, trained as a mechanical engineer and Geoff McFarland worked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, from 1960 to 1974.
He was Group Engineering Director, age 39, graduated with a BEng in Managing Director of Renishaw from 1974 to 1989, primarily involved computer aided mechanical engineering at Heriot-Watt University, in the commercial direction of the Group, with particular emphasis where he subsequently worked for several years as a research on marketing and the establishment of the Groups wholly-owned associate.
After working briefly in the high-volume manufacturing subsidiaries in the USA, Ireland, Japan, Germany, France and Italy.
electronic sector, Geoff joined Renishaws research and development John and Sir David McMurtry were members of the four-man team of facility in Edinburgh in 1994, before moving to Renishaws Renishaw engineers honoured with the MacRobert Award in 1987. headquarters to become Director and General Manager of the CMM John is responsible for group manufacturing and group quality and is Products Division.
Geoff was appointed to the Board in July 2002. chairman of the overseas marketing subsidiaries.
He heads the group engineering function and is also responsible for group patents.
Geoff is a non-executive director of Delcam plc.
04 the the the the the boar boar boar boar board d d d d Joe McGeehan, CBE, FIEE, FREng David Snowden, FCA the senior independent non-executive director, age 61, is Managing non-executive director, age 70, was a partner at KPMG for 25 years, Director of Toshiba Research Ltd: Telecommunications Research latterly acting as Senior Partner for KPMG in South Wales.
After obtaining the degrees of BEng and PhD in was an audit partner covering a wide range of businesses and was electrical and electronic engineering from the University of Liverpool, also regional partner in charge of insolvency work for ten years.
he spent several years involved in industrial research before entering Since his retirement from KPMG in 1993, David has been a director academia.
Since 1985, he has held a number of senior positions at and corporate adviser to a number of private companies.
David was the University of Bristol.
In 2003 he was awarded the degree of DEng appointed a director of the Company on 1st July 2003 and is the by the University of Liverpool for his major contribution to mobile chairman of the Remuneration and nomination committee.
communications research, much of which has formed the basis of Audit committee: international standards.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Electrical Terry Garthwaite Chairman Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Joe was Joe McGeehan appointed as a director in January 2001.
David Snowden Terry Garthwaite, FCA Remuneration and nomination committee: non-executive director, age 60, is a chartered accountant, who David Snowden Chairman after qualifying, joined Price Waterhouse in London.
He held a Terry Garthwaite number of senior finance positions within Foseco plc including Joe McGeehan Director of Corporate Finance, prior to spending eleven years as Group Finance Director at the multinational engineering group Senior plc.
He is a non-executive director of Brammer plc and Wilmington Group plc.
Terry was appointed a director of Renishaw plc on 1st July 2003 and is chairman of the Audit committee.
