DIRECTORS' REPORT The directors have pleasure in presenting their 34th Annual report, Environmental control together with the audited financial statements for the year ended The Company recognises the fundamental importance of carrying 30th June 2007 as set out on pages 34 to 61. out its business in an ethical manner and, within this framework, the Group strives to minimise the environmental impact of its activities.
This Principal activities and review of the business is carried out through tight process control, a series of improvement The principal activities of the Group during the year were the projects and the education and involvement of all personnel.
design, manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology and The Company has been continuing its efforts to ensure that its inspection equipment, computer aided design and manufacturing activities generate the minimum amount of waste possible.
The systems and Raman spectroscopy systems.
machining operations use state-of-the-art techniques to collect, A review of the business and likely future developments are given filter, compact and return waste metal for re-processing.
Systematic in the Chairmans statement and the Financial review.
Segmental recycling takes place across the Group for a variety of materials.
information by geographical market is given in note 2 to the The Group has successfully put in place a plan for compliance with financial statements.
the requirements of the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment The Companies Act requires the Directors report to include a Regulations the WEEE Regulations.
Certain information that fulfils the requirements of Additionally, although only a number of the Companys products the business review can be found in the Financial review on pages strictly fall within the scope of the requirements of the Restriction 22 to 24 of this Annual report.
of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Further information is also available on the Companys website: Electronic Equipment Regulations 2004 the RoHS Regulations, www.
com the Company has undertaken a programme of conversion of its assembly processes to lead-free techniques wherever possible.
Dividends The Group has been actively pursuing a strategy of systematic The directors propose a final dividend of 15.82p per share 2006 reduction of its use of natural resources by adopting more efficient 15.07p which, together with the interim dividend of 7.05p 2006 processes and evaluating innovative energy-saving technologies.
6.71p, makes a total of 22.87p for the year, compared to 21.78p This includes the installation of geo-thermal heating technology for the previous year.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final in our Indian subsidiary and in one of the buildings at the UK dividend will be paid on 15th October 2007 to shareholders on the headquarters, the investigation of rain water harvesting and the register on 14th September 2007, with an ex-dividend date of 12th investigation of the use of wind turbines to provide electrical energy.
The Company closely monitors energy consumption and where possible has introduced energy efficient measures, such as Directors and their interests replacing existing equipment with more energy efficient machinery, The directors who served during the year and their interests in the improving the efficiency of our production processes, installing light share capital of the Company with the equivalent number of voting sensors and fitting temperature control devices.
The Company has rights, at the beginning and the end of the year, were:- continued the rollout of its energy-saving pilot lighting plan to all UK sites.
Also, the anodising plant has been reviewed for improved Ordinary shares of 20p each process efficiency, resulting in a 30% reduction in chemical usage.
2007 2006 D R McMurtry 26,377,291 26,377,291 Post balance sheet event In July 2007, the Company invested 1,500,000 in the purchase 12,393,040 D J Deer 12,533,040 of a 75% shareholding in D3 Technologies Limited, a company B R Taylor 10,147 10,147 registered in Scotland.
This company has been newly incorporated, A C G Roberts 5,165 5,165 to exploit certain patents related to Raman spectroscopy and, to - G McFarland - pursue this, it has used 850,000 of the investment to purchase the business and assets of the analytical business unit operated by J P McGeehan 900 900 Mesophotonics Limited, a spin-out company from the University of T D Snowden 5,000 5,000 Southampton.
3,000 T B Garthwaite 3,000 Auditors All the above holdings were beneficially held with the exception A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of of 2,420,311 shares 2006 2,320,311 shares which were nonthe Company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual beneficially held by D J Deer but in respect of which he has general meeting.
There has been no change in the above holdings in the period 1st July 2007 to 25th July 2007.
T D Snowden and T B Garthwaite, both of whom provide services under a letter of appointment with the Company, retire by rotation and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 4 and 5.
25 DiREcTORS' REPORT cOnTinUED Two payment runs are made each month.
The companys policy is Disclosure of information to auditors to ensure that all invoices are settled within 60 days of the receipt The directors who held office at the date of approval of this and agreement of a valid and complete invoice.
Wherever possible, Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there payments are made using the Bankers automated clearing is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are Service.
unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to Typically, the company settles all due invoices in the calendar month have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit following their receipt.
The number of days purchasing outstanding information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware at the end of June 2007 was approximately 30 days 2006 30 days.
Substantial shareholdings Special business apart from the shareholdings and corresponding voting rights of The notice of meeting on page 31 sets out the following special Sir David McMurtry and John Deer 36.2% and 17.2% respectively, business: the following are the voting rights notified to the directors, which a resolution relating to the purchase of own shares.
The directors represent 3% or more of the voting rights attached to issued shares consider that the company should have the flexibility to be able in the company, as at 25th July 2007: to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares, up to a number total of 10% of the issued share capital.
Shareholders are being Holder of of voting asked to pass the necessary special resolution no.
7 at the annual voting rights rights held Percentage general meeting to give the required authority until the earlier of the conclusion of the 2008 annual general meeting and 31st December 2008.
There is at present no intention to purchase shares and, if Standard life investments limited 3,593,580 4.94% granted, the authority would only be exercised if an improvement in earnings per share were expected to result.
Donations and community involvement During the year the Group made charitable donations of 64,000 Employees 2006 105,000.
The Group organises its charitable donations by The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is essential to the two methods: firstly, by allocating a fund of money to its charities future of the business and the directors place great emphasis on the committee: and secondly, through direct grants as decided by the continuation of the companys approved training policy.
The charities committee meets at least four times a year safety matters are given special attention by the directors and well to consider all applications for donations from local groups in the established systems of safety management are in place throughout area.
its donations policy is to provide funds to local causes or local the Group to safeguard employees, customers and visitors.
branches of national groups, with focus on youth projects.
Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities in addition to donations to charitable causes, the company is irrespective of race, colour, religion, sex, age, disability or sexual actively involved with the community, for example, hosting events at orientation.
Opportunities are given to employees who become its premises for local schools and supporting the community sports disabled, to continue in their employment or to be trained for foundation efforts in providing sporting facilities in Wotton-underother positions.
no political donations were made during the year 2006 nil.
Regular contact is maintained with all employees through monthly communications meetings and departmental channels.
The quarterly in-house journal ensures staff are kept well informed on By order of the Board the progress of the Group.
in addition, in february and august, the assistant chief Executive presents the interim results and final a c G Roberts fca results respectively, to all employees following their publication.
Secretary 25th July 2007 Research and development The Group has a continuing commitment to a high level of research and development.
The expenditure involved is directed towards the research and development of new products relating to metrology, computer aided design and manufacturing systems, Raman spectroscopy systems, dental and certain areas in the medical field.
Creditor payment policy The company has a variety of payment terms: contracts have been negotiated with a number of suppliers and payments are made in accordance with the terms of these contracts.
Payment terms are disclosed on the companys standard purchase order forms, or, where appropriate, specified in individual contracts agreed with suppliers.
