PRODUCTS REVIEW 01: Sandra Kiriasis and her brakeman, 03: Renishaws revolutionary REVO Romy Logsch, speeding their way towards five-axis measuring head was used to scan the gold medal at the FIBT Womens the original blades, quickly capturing many Bobsleigh World Championship by a margin thousands of data points to enable the form of over two seconds to be defined in great detail 02: The REVO five-axis measuring head, 04: The OMP400 strain gauge touch probe capable of high-accuracy inspection at performing on-machine measurement scanning speeds of up to 500 mm s following machining 05: Sandra Kiriasis 01 bladerunner What does it take to become a World and Olympic bobsleigh champion?
Dedication, a gruelling training programme and nerves of steel.
You also need technology specifically, blades created using Renishaw technology.
10 02 03 04 05 Team Kiriasis found itself under huge pressure following the These blades were then fitted to a milling machine at tooling FIBTs International Federation of Bobsleigh and Tobogganing manufacturer Iscars factory, before the finished blades were ruling in October 2006, which standardised the material used in returned to Renishaw and checked for form by its ultra-fast and the manufacture of bobsleigh blades for the following season.
All in perfect time for pre-season training.
With no electronic data available for her trusted hand-made blades, reigning Olympic womens two-man bobsleigh champion, Sandra Following her domination of both the World Cup and World Kiriasis had to act quickly.
She appealed to industry for help and Championship, an ecstatic Kiriasis acknowledged the contribution leading metrology company Renishaw rose to the challenge.
made by the new blades, telling the worlds media, the fact that we were using perfect blades is a core factor in our success.
With partners Siemens, Sescoi and Iscar, Renishaw came up with a reverse engineering solution which not only saw off fierce On the back of this success, Team Kiriasis has signed a one-year industry competition but helped Kiriasis and her brakeman, technical support package with Renishaw.
Managing Director Romy Logsch, leave competitors in their wake as they sped to of Renishaw GmbH, Rainer Lotz said, through our success in a record-breaking season.
international motor sport, were all too aware of the small margins between success and failure.
Were delighted to be playing a key role The existing blades were sent to Renishaws UK research facility, in the continued success of Sandra and Team Kiriasis.
where its revolutionary REVO five-axis measuring head captured detailed data.
Using the data, Sescoi developed a CAD CAM program for a Siemens Sinumerik controller.
11 PRODUCTS REVIEW 01: RM22 non-contact, compact, 04: The KTM dragster, built by 07: Desmodromic camshaft high-speed rotary magnetic encoder Salakazi Racing, completes the 08: The Ducati 1098 quarter mile in 6.7 seconds 02: The RM22 encoder being fitted 09: NC4 system on a clutch shaft 05: NC4, a fast, non-contact tool setting and tool breakage 03: Petri Mkinen, Salakazi engineer, detection system who has integrated the Renishaw encoders into the KTM dragster 06: Fulvio Abbondi, Manufacturing Technology Specialist at Ducati Motor 01 From a fearless flying Finn on a souped-up rocket to the most desirable road machines on the planet, Renishaw Group technology is essential for innovation on two wheels.
02 03 mean 04 Not many people would even consider sitting astride a snarling Clutch slippage, traction and road conditions can all be precisely 300 kg, 1500 horsepower engine travelling at over 300 km per hour.
determined by comparing values from the encoders, providing the But Jaska Salakazi from Finland has made a very successful teams technicians with the vital data to pre-program the bike and career of it, becoming the first person in the world to break the make final adjustments to the first stage counterweights before the magical seven-second barrier over a quarter of a mile on a Super race begins.
Where milliseconds are crucial, the encoders enable Twin Top Fuel bike.
So what gives him the confidence to take the the team to optimise clutch engagement and maximise speed and bike to its limits, whatever the conditions?
Since 2000, the speed-obsessed six-man team at Salakazi Racing The teams technology guru, Petri Mkinen, is quick to recognise the has continually designed, built and refined its KTM Super twin importance of the Renishaw encoders.
We need to read the clutch powered Dragster.
The latest modification is the addition of two speed even before the rear tyre has completed its first full rotation.
RM22 compact high-speed rotary magnetic encoders, produced by The data they provide us with beforehand is critically important we RLS d. o. o. Renishaws Slovenian partner company.
These measure couldnt obtain it or preset the clutch any other way.
Theyve been clutch speed and monitor the position of the engines crankshaft, such a success that during the next two years well also use the helping to take the bike to unsurpassed speeds.
Within a split encoders to control the ignition advance and adjust the cams.
second the 1995 cc engine screams to 7,500 rpm.
12 05 06 07 08 machines While a nitro-fuelled dragster undoubtedly has the edge when A broken or worn tool at this stage of the production process would it comes to raw power, the combined speed and finesse of the have serious consequences for the company scrap, expensive Ducati is unsurpassed considered by many who know about re-machining and wasted time.
There could also be serious damage these things to be the bikers dream.
Years of proven design, to the machine spindle, which, added to the cost of specialist tools, engineering and testing have gone into the development of the would add up to 000s.
With an NC4 fitted to both machine tools bikes since the company first used its unique and elaborate a single operator can manage both machines simultaneously.
If any Desmodromic engines in 1972. potential problems arise, the Renishaw system will trigger an alarm and alert the operator.
At its factory in Bologna, Italy, two Stama machining centres work continually throughout the year to produce the Desmodromic Fulvio Abbondi, Manufacturing Technology Specialist at Ducati camshaft for all the different Ducati engines.
As this is the most Motor, explains.
A broken tool or a chipped cutting edge during critical stage of the process, maintaining precision throughout and production could potentially cost the company a great deal, so avoiding tool breakages and wear is vital.
Thats why the company its essential that we can check throughout the process.
While has turned to Renishaw and its innovative NC4 non-contact, laser breakages escape the attention of most detection systems, the NC4 tool setting and tool breakage detection system.
systems have enabled us to ensure consistency and precision at all times vital if the engine is to operate properly.
09 13 PRODUCTS REVIEW 01: Linear measurement using 03: XL-80 laser calibration system 02 03 the XL-80 high-speed, compact 04: Dr. Will Eve, Technical Director, high-accuracy laser calibration Inca Digital Printers Ltd system 05: Incas Spyder 320 digital press 02: RGH22 encoder system open, non-contact readhead and unique flexible tapescale 01 speed William Caxton could never have imagined it.
More than 500 Todays printing companies want a combination of speed, quality years after Englands printing pioneer produced the countrys and repeatability, says Incas Director of Technology, Dr. Will Eve.
first books, we live in a world obsessed with the printed image, They also want print at large sizes, which makes the other three more where product packaging, billboards, shop window displays, bus difficult to attain.
To help us achieve all four, we use Renishaw position shelters and almost every available product and public space encoders and check all of our printers with a Renishaw XL-80 laser.
is taken up with a high-resolution visual image or photograph.
Building on the success of the ML10 laser system, the new compact Such is our insatiable appetite for fresh visual stimulation that XL-80 has greatly improved dynamic measurement performance, the people and the companies who produce these images need including a maximum linear measurement speed of 4 m s. printers that are built both for speed and, if they want to stop us We use the XL-80 for both static and dynamic measurements, in our tracks, for high-quality.
When were building our machines, we take Inca Digital Printers Ltd develops and manufactures digital flatbed measurements along the length of the main rails some of them inkjet printers aimed at companies wanting to respond efficiently to up to 11.5 m to make sure the chassis is aligned when it arrives market needs for short-run prints, particularly high-quality, full-colour from the fabricator.
Then, when the machine is built, powered up images produced on a variety of rigid or flexible substrates.
and tested, we use the Renishaw XL-80 to measure the accuracy of the moving machine.
We couldnt use our previous ML10 laser at the machines full speed because the table moves too quickly.
Any positional anomalies we discover are saved in a file in the control system, which uses the values as the basis for its dynamic compensation.
Even the tiniest misalignment in the machines chassis can be amplified, which would cause banding and other registration errors to show up in the image.
14 04 Like other technologies, its taken for granted.
But, modern printing is a miracle of engineering precision, where producing a beautiful print is almost as complex as building a beautiful car.
Thanks to Renishaw position encoders and laser measurement technology, one companys large-scale printers are considered the safe bet for consistency, reliability and stunning images.
repeatability Amongst other things, the new XL-80 was conceived with portability Renishaws optical encoders are very easy to use thanks to their in mind.
The fact that the whole system fits into a relatively small set-up LEDs, says Wei Chan.
Theres no need for complex case, which one man can carry comfortably, is a great attribute.
equipment, he says, the drive performance and the 1 m Especially as, from time to time, we also take the laser on site to micrometre resolution allow very reliable control of the position recalibrate a customers machine, adds Dr. Eve.
and velocity servo loop, even at low speeds.
Theres also minimum interpolation error because of the short 20 m signal pitch.
Inca Digital printers can be relied upon for their incredible accuracy and repeatability, thanks in large part to the companys use of All of which adds up to a beautiful, pin-sharp image, time after time.
Renishaws position encoders, which have an established reputation for being easy to install and set up.
We use Renishaw linear encoders on our Spyder machines to provide a more precise and faster motion platform with zero mechanical error, says Incas Control Team Leader, Wei Chan.
05 15 PRODUCTS REVIEW 01: incise scanning machine 06: StreamLine technology 08: Renishaw inVia Raman available as an option for Renishaw microscopes in production 02: Dentist and patient consultation inVia Raman microscopes 09: inVia Reflex Raman microscope 03: Scanning a stone model 07: StreamLine image of 04: Zirconia frameworks section of a pharmaceutical tablet 05: Final fitting of restoration size 18 mm x 7 mm, acquired in 30 minutes 01 02 incise means less chair time for patients and more throughput and profit for the dentist.
03 04 05 image Perhaps a name more familiar in engineering circles, Renishaw incise uses CAD CAM technology and contact scanning to provide is making a name for itself in a diverse range of other areas.
a unique  process through which the dentist What could one of the worlds leading metrology companies and dental laboratory can be confident the stone model accurately possibly offer dentists and dental laboratories?
represents the actual clinical situation.
It also gives them the freedom to work with hard, strong, biocompatible materials, such as zirconia, With the enormous advance in aesthetic and implant dentistry, there which allow for thinner copings and connectors and therefore has never been a more exciting time to be a dentist or someone reduced micro leakages, more conservative tooth preparation and needing a crown or bridge.
More and more people now think of superb aesthetic qualities.
beautiful fully-functioning teeth as much in terms of fashion as health.
If theyre to feel as great as they look, then accuracy is critical.
An impression is sent to the laboratory to be prepared using a recommended stone material which is then scanned using an Combining Renishaws renowned measurement and manufacturing incise scanning machine.
The results are sent to Renishaw where technology with pioneering research into clinical and laboratory a zirconia framework is manufactured before being sent to the processes, a revolutionary dental system, incise, uses precision laboratory for porcelain build-up and characterisation.
Finally, the measuring at every stage of the process from first impression new crown or bridge is returned to the dentist for fitting.
to final fitting to enable dental teams to manufacture ceramic restorations which also provide greater strength and longevity.
This right first time, every time solution means there is no need for time-consuming and costly re-working, so the patient spends less time in the chair and the dentist has more time to see other clients smiles all round!
16 Renishaws breakthrough imaging technology allows Raman chemical imaging to be performed at incredible speeds.
What once took hours now takes a matter of minutes.
06 07 08 makers Compared to competing spectroscopic techniques, Raman When laser light hits certain materials, a tiny fraction of the light is offers a compelling range of capabilities, requiring no sample shifted in frequency.
This is known as the Raman effect.
Analysis of preparation and offering superior chemical specificity, the frequency shifts spectrum reveals the characteristic vibration combined with excellent spatial resolution.
However, the speed frequencies of the atoms and hence the chemical composition and at which chemical images can be acquired has been orders structure of the material on a scale as small as one micrometre.
of magnitude slower than alternative imaging techniques.
The The inVia Raman microscope has become established as the speed advantage enabled by StreamLine will elevate Raman benchmark for research grade micro-Raman systems.
Its to become the technique of choice in a wide range of new and market-leading flexibility has been further enhanced by the addition existing applications.
of StreamLine imaging capabilities, permitting rapid Raman Chemical imaging allows the composition and distribution of chemical analysis on micro and macro scales in all fields of application.
species to be mapped and characterised.
In the pharmaceutical industry, where previously, slow mapping speeds meant that only small portions of a tablet were imaged, StreamLine imaging can be used to determine component type and distribution for a complete tablet.
In bio-medical applications, StreamLine facilitates the imaging of complete biopsies, allowing the diagnosis of cancers and its precursors in unparalleled detail and at incredible speed.
09 17 PRODUCTS REVIEW 01: Deep Brain Stimulation electrode 03: Illustration of drug delivery within introducer kit the central nervous system 02: Professor Gill with Registrar performing 04: Dual chamber MRI phantom Deep Brain Stimulation procedure, courtesy 05: Radio frequency coil used for of NHS, North Bristol Trust investigation of obesity by carbon spectroscopy of the leg 01 A growing and ageing population is placing unprecedented demand on healthcare resources across the world.
Renishaw and PulseTeq are developing devices that will allow surgeons, radiologists and scientists involved in drug development to deliver improved therapy to their patients.
precise 02 18 03 04 05 healthcare Developments in medical imaging technologies and understanding Medical imaging has become one of the cornerstones of drug how the brain works is leading to the development of therapies development, clinical diagnosis and surgical planning.
Renishaws that provide high levels of symptomatic control or potential cures partner company, PulseTeq, which designs and manufactures for neurodegenerative disease and brain cancers.
radio frequency coils, electronics and other Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI scanner enhancements, has been working closely with Renishaw is developing neurological products that aim to improve Renishaw and leading UK academic institutions.
PulseTeq is focussing surgical accuracy in the implantation of therapeutic delivery devices on the development of techniques and technologies using traditional and precise, controlled infusion of newly-developed drugs.
and non-traditional MRI elements such as hydrogen, carbon 13 and If successful, these devices and systems will revolutionise co-ordinate sodium.
These products will allow information to be collected which positioning within the central nervous system and allow the delivery can be used by scientists seeking to understand the causes and of cutting-edge therapeutics for the treatment of conditions such as progression of disease and by clinicians in the planning of treatment Parkinsons disease and brain tumours such as malignant glioma.
Over the coming months, Renishaw will grow the sales of its Deep Brain Stimulation electrode introducer kits and proceed with the development of advanced micro-fluidic devices, surgical planning software and stereotactic systems prior to moving on to clinical trials.
19 PRODUCTS REVIEW 01: EOS P385 rapid prototyping 03: OTS, Renishaws first tool setting 05: Hnel LeanLift systems installed laser sintering system has the probe with optical signal transmission in the warehouse at Woodchester capability for low-volume production undergoing a visual check.
The OTS 06: The OTS tool setting and broken system is one of the first products to 02: Close-up of the print head from tool detection system for vertical be produced using the nursery cell an Objet 3-Dimensional printing machining centres assembly philosophy system for the rapid production of working parts for evaluation 04: RAMTIC Renishaws Automated Milling, Turning and Inspection Centre production line at the Stonehouse facility 01 lean Renishaw continues to focus on reducing lead-times to market, The Development Machine Shop DMS provides three key services from the faster evaluation of product concepts, through to the to Renishaw: first supply of fully functioning products to customers.
t engineering of machined components for new products: To create a concurrent engineering environment, Renishaws Rapid t manufacture of tooling for all development, assembly, machining Manufacturing Centre RMC, Development Machine Shop and and test operations: and pre-production assembly facilities are located next to each other t development of new manufacturing processes and technologies to at the New Mills site and also in close proximity to Renishaws bring step-change improvements to productivity.
All new components are produced on machine tools identical to those Investments have continued in rapid prototyping facilities to enable the at Stonehouse, ensuring that hand-over from development to full faster testing of concept components.
Within the RMC, the purchase production is achieved without any loss to productivity or quality.
of an EOS P385 rapid prototyping RP machine has added laser sintering facilities and capability for low-volume production, ranging The pre-production assembly area follows the same philosophy as the from fixture parts to components for final products.
DMS, mirroring on a smaller scale, the assembly processes in place at Renishaws main assembly operation at Woodchester.
These include The EOS machine gives the flexibility and versatility required for a surface mount machinery, automated test equipment and mechanical variety of tasks which encourages designers to take full advantage of assembly nursery cells, where products are assembled in low the geometries which can be produced using its sintering techniques.
volumes prior to transfer to full-scale production.
To speed up despatching processes, seven Hnel LeanLift automated storage and retrieval systems have been installed within Renishaws finished goods warehouse.
These have reduced picking and put-away times and improved stocking accuracy.
With each unit standing at 8.5 metres, the systems also maximise floor space utilisation and will allow for long-term growth within the existing facility.
20 02 03 05 04 machines Innovative design, rapid prototyping and sophisticated manufacturing gets products to the market quickly so customers can take full advantage of the time and cost savings that Renishaw technology brings.
