Rentokil Initial plc Business Review likely to be up to 10 million below our expectations as a CITY LINK result of a further volume decline in the business-toconsumer segment in the ten weeks before Christmas.
MARKET CONDITIONS We attributed this slowdown to weaker consumer spending The UK market saw growth above GDP in 2007.
The overall express parcels delivery sector continues to consolidate.
City Links purchase of Target Express and the purchase of Since then we have conducted a detailed analysis into the ANC by Fedex at a similar time are illustrative of this trend.
trends in City Links revenue base.
We have concluded that The gradual industry decline in revenue per consignment although there was an impact from downtrading in the has continued however within our own business this business to consumer segment of the business, this played decline was somewhat further than expected.
only a part in a downturn that can essentially be attributed to the fact that the integration programme tried to do too KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Change much too quickly without establishing a sound base.
This m vs 2006 had the effect of impacting service.
In addition, some of Revenue 417.1 95.5% Organic revenue -5.2% the actions we undertook, most notably with the former Operating profit 19.4 -44.3% City Link franchises, were in the wrong direction.
Adjusted operating profit 44.8 24.1% Net adjusted margin 10.7% -6.2% The fourth quarter profit shortfall anticipated at the No.
of consignments m 51.8 4.4% time of the December trading statement can be explained Revenue per consignment 8.24 -2.3% as follows.
Revenues during the period fell well short of 2007 REVIEW expectation as a result of down trading by existing customers, Revenue from City Link increased by 95.5% during 2007 a modest increase in customer attrition and the fact that delivering a 24.1% increase in adjusted operating profit this lost revenue was not replaced by sales generated from before tax, reflecting the impact of the acquisitions of the new business.
In addition, the UK parcels industry has former City Link franchises and Target Express business.
over the years experienced a gradual decline in revenue Network turnover grew only by a modest 1.9% during the year, per consignment RPC our measure of average price.
depressed as a result of poor volumes in the fourth quarter Historically, this has not had a detrimental effect on City when the expected surge of volumes in the approach to Link profits because strong volume growth and the benefits Christmas did not occur.
from operational leverage on our fixed cost base have offset Until October, City Links performance tracked budget monthprice erosion.
However, in 2007 City Links network RPC fell by-month and the business exited the third quarter with somewhat further than expected and this combination of network growth up 4.7%.
However, in December we issued lower volumes at cheaper RPC is the principal reason for a trading statement stating that fourth quarter profits were the Q4 profit shortfall.
This was further compounded by the SMARTER DRIVING City Link has introduced a new HGV fleet of vehicles with the latest Euro 5 engines which produce even lower CO2 emissions whilst continuing to be highly efficient operationally.
In addition, City Link is trialling electric  vehicles into the low emission zones around the Capital.
City Link has introduced Driver Assessors who train its HGV drivers to drive more efficiently, leading to more fuel-efficient driving techniques which include effective gear changing.
indd 34 28 3 08 09:25:18 Rentokil Initial plc Business Review fact that City Link carried excess cost in the fourth quarter forecasting an above-budget full year out-turn until August.
in anticipation of the pre-Christmas surge in volumes Despite regular reviews and updates, nothing untoward which failed to materialise.
came to light or was expected.
The underlying issues were masked by increased volumes of business from our continuing The businesss foundation for integration was not solid customers.
When that trend reversed in the fourth quarter enough to cope with the degree of changes being put this, combined with poor new business generation, caused through the combined networks and the depot integration a sudden and marked effect on revenue and profit.
programme had a temporary negative impact on service levels, most notably around the time of the introduction We have taken immediate action to address these issues.
of cage handling into the Target Express network and the Petar Cvetkovic, the former CEO of Target Express, replaced integration pilot in the late summer.
As a result we have lost Michael Cooke as Managing Director on 18 February some customers, unsettled others causing them to down 2008 with a clear focus on restoring the profitability of the trade with us and issued an increased number of service business.
In order to ensure continuity of customer service credits as compensation for poor service.
These service credits we have taken the decision to pause the depot rationalisation exacerbated the fall in RPC.
A hiatus in sales management programme until such time as our systems, processes and during the first half of the year also led to an inadequate account management have been improved.
We will however new business pipeline.
continue with Phase One of the integration, the roll out of In addition to the mid-year service issues described above, mechanical handling equipment and handheld consignment poor account management of the small to mid-size scanners, as they are delivering service and operational ex-franchise customers may be the principal reason for benefits within the depots.
the lost business highlighted above.
The move from a local Other actions undertaken since December include the roll-out to more centralised account management system unsettled of a new account management structure which aims to build customers who had formed strong relationships with direct relationships between customers and their local depots.
former franchisees, most of whom left the business post The account management team is being further strengthened acquisition.
In addition, as we moved to integrate depots, by new appointments and CRM training programmes for both relevant management positions were not appointed quickly new and existing managers, are currently underway.
enough to take effective ownership of their additional new customer base.
A new senior leadership team is in place within City Links sales and marketing operation and has created a stronger The issues outlined above became apparent very suddenly pipeline of new business prospects than in 2007, converting and with no obvious warning and have seriously impacted the financial performance of City Link.
The business tracked several into new customers within the last eight weeks.
budget until the beginning of October and was actually Recruitment for field sales is on-going.
CUSTOMER SERVICE FOCUS City Link is committed to offering Best in Class customer service and reliability rates continue to exceed 98%.
Armando Sanchez, Operations Director at ebuyer.
com, one of City Links major customers, said: We have been exceptionally pleased with the performance of City Link.
Their ability to  been impressive.
indd 36 27 3 08 02:57:51 Rentokil Initial plc Business Review ASIA PACIFIC 7.1% Group Revenue 2007 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES: PRINCIPAL GEOGRAPHIES: Textiles and Washroom Australia Services New Zealand Pest control Malaysia Tropical plants Indonesia Facilities services South Korea Singapore Hong Kong OUR OBJECTIVE: To build and capitalise upon market leading positions in core group businesses in the worlds fastest growing markets.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES : Drive organic growth ahead of market Deepen pest control market positions Secure acquisition synergy benefits in Washroom Australia and South East Asia 37 23073 001 065 SAS.
indd 37 27 3 08 02:58:00 Rentokil Initial plc Business Review The mid-year service issues experienced at the time of the geographies represented a tight fit and the economies depot closure pilot and the change to cage handling in the of putting the two businesses together looked compelling.
Target Express network have been resolved.
The operation Our problem has been in execution of the plan.
Despite the of the hubs, their sort times and last trunk arrivals is on businesss unacceptable short-term financial performance, plan.
The roll-out of hand-held, real-time proof of delivery the new management team is highly motivated to achieve equipment is resulting in faster, better and more transparent its original financial goals and potential.
Our priorities for service information, and improved depot scanners are 2008 will be on delivering strong account management for ensuring end-to-end visibility and control.
A project customers, improving customer facing systems and processes is nearing completion to allow online updating of and ensuring that our information systems provide greater autogazetteers on customer sites which will help ensure visibility and control.
that timed deliveries are not delayed by incorrect labelling City Link has incurred one-off integration costs of 25.4 and routing.
The largest component Although we have made tangible progress in addressing of this, 16.3 million, is a provision for the costs of exiting the problems that have been discovered since the trading the surplus leasehold depots.
The remaining non-property downturn at the end of last year, it is clear that there is much integration costs are estimated at around 5.0 million.
to do to restore the enlarged City Link business back to its Our estimate of the eventual synergies from the integration former profitability.
remains unchanged at not less than 15 million per annum.
However, the timing of these benefits and integration costs The challenging conditions experienced in the fourth quarter is dependent on the branch integration timetable.
This is have continued into this year in terms of revenue, RPC and, to under review.
As this is a trend business, improvements will take time to come through and profit for 2008 will therefore 2008 PREVIEW depend on the speed with which we can reverse these trends.
City Links trading in the first weeks of the year remains In January 2008 City Link was loss-making and its adjusted poor and the trends seen in the fourth quarter appear to be operating profit was 4.0 million lower than January 2007. continuing.
As this is a trend business, improvements will It is possible that the business may not trade better than take time to come through and profit for 2008 will therefore breakeven levels in 2008. depend on the speed with which we can reverse these trends.
For the five years up to 2006, City Link and Target Express In January City Link was loss-making and its adjusted businesses were the UKs leading and fastest growing operating profit was 4.0 million lower than in January 2007. overnight parcels delivery businesses, consistently outpacing As a result, it is possible that the business may not trade market growth.
Their positioning, service profiles and better than at breakeven levels in 2008.
GROWTH IN AUSTRALIA Our pest control business in Australia was transformed in 2007.
A number of acquisitions and organic growth meant that it exited the year 150% bigger than it began.
The largest acquisition Campbell Brothers not only added scale and geographic reach to the business, but also extended the service offering into the residential market.
Australia has a major termite control market, previously not targeted.
Given Rentokils unmatched global expertise in this area, the business is set for success.
