Rentokil Initial plc Business Review is estimated to be 21.0 million, of which 17.5 million was The restructuring programme in the UK will be completed spent in 2006 and 2007 with the balance to follow in 2008. early in 2008.
At this time the business will be fully operational from its final 20 locations and will have Restructuring and other one-off costs in the division were modern, efficient processing plants incorporating the latest a net 2.1 million 2006: 16.3 million, because costs technology.
In addition the centralised back office facilities were offset by the profit on sale of surplus UK washroom will be running at full strength.
Costs were incurred in plant closure in Belgium, the closure of the wipers business in the In France we expect the positive trends in portfolio UK, UK branch closures and management reorganisation development towards the end of 2007 to continue in 2008. and redundancy.
The division continues to explore Our aim throughout the coming year is to continue to opportunities to improve procurement and supply chain develop the profitability of the French business.
A number efficiency, but it is not yet clear whether this will result in of initiatives designed to improve productivity, particularly restructuring or other one-off costs being incurred in 2008. in the washroom business, will be implemented.
We are also aiming to improve sales productivity and continue 2008 PREVIEW to develop range selling in order to increase the number of 2007 was an important year for the division.
It was the year products taken by each customer.
Elsewhere in continental that marked the cessation of a declining trend and a return Europe cost recovery is a high priority.
We will be seeking to portfolio growth.
to maximise the benefits associated with the investment in the new processing capacity in Belgium, France, Austria, During the year we structured the division in such a way the Czech Republic and will build upon acquisitions made, as to reduce overall costs and overhead of the business.
especially in Sweden and Poland.
We also improved efficiency and processes.
Looking forward the divisional team is focusing on a number of potentially powerful initiatives that will help protect FACILITIES SERVICES the business in future years.
The regional structures MARKET CONDITIONS in particular create significant opportunities for Market conditions remained difficult throughout 2007 improvements in customer service and cost reductions and our competitors continued with aggressive pricing in processing, service and management activities.
Towards the end of 2007 there was a significant Market research commissioned by us in 2007 has also downturn in conditions in the UK retail sector, where given the business some useful insights into future we have a strong presence.
However this can also create development opportunities.
Anti-smoking legislation in the UK affected the Leisure Industry.
FLYING SQUAD Airports are busy places requiring smooth operation throughout daily and seasonal fluctuations in demand.
Initial Air Services, part of Initial Facilities Services, is a long-established partner at Manchester Airport.
During the most recent round of re-tendering it was successful in gaining the business as sole cleaning contractor until 2010.
This will represent an unbroken tenure of some 24 years.
In 2007 it also won a 1.1 million a year cleaning and support services contract with the Peel Airport Group to service Liverpool John Lennon, Robin Hood Doncaster and Durham Tees Valley Airports.
indd 24 27 3 08 02:56:08 Rentokil Initial plc Business Review KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS contracts: and streamlining our operating structure to offset Change price pressure.
Annualised customer retention rates fell m vs 2006 in the second half largely as a result of one major loss and Revenue 585.7 12.8% Organic revenue 3.9% a 25% reduction in contract scope by our largest customer.
Operating profit 38.7 41.2% Adjusted operating profit 38.9 24.7% During the year, revenues in the catering service business Net adjusted margin 6.6% 0.6% declined to 59.7 million following our decision to exit a Contract portfolio gain 47.0 -25.3% number of unprofitable schools contracts.
Contract wins New business wins 43.7 -27.2% Net additions reductions 15.7 -5.4% effective from Q4 will offset much of this revenue loss and Acquisitions 44.9 156.6% at better margins.
The catering business is now profitable Terminations 57.3 -84.2% Retention rate 86.2% -4.9% it made a loss of 0.8 million in 2006 due to both the above factors and the success of procurement initiatives on food 2007 REVIEW purchasing and distribution.
Initial Facilities Services delivered a good performance in Hospital Services, which provides cleaning, catering 2007, increasing revenue by 12.8% and adjusted operating and porterage services to NHS hospitals in the UK and profit by 24.7%.
The Netherlands cleaning business was sold independent healthcare sector, recorded revenue up in the third quarter.
Excluding acquisitions and disposals, 10.5% at 62.8 million and profit up 33.8%.
Focus has been revenue grew organically by 3.9%.
The focus on expanding on improving efficiency generally and addressing a number group services into existing customers, an activity in of unprofitable contracts.
which this division takes the lead, is also beginning to show rewards.
Our specialist hygiene businesses increased revenues by 26% In the UK, Cleaning revenue increased by 22.1% to 318.8 to 52.0 million and profit by 1.1 million, largely as a result of the acquisition of Technivap in France in January 2007. million 2006: 261 million, largely as a result of increased contract turnover and portfolio growth coming from the Improved profitability in Catering and Hygiene Services acquisitions of InSitu and Lancaster.
Adjusted operating offset the continued margin pressure in UK Cleaning to give profit from Cleaning was 2.3 million higher than in 2006 a divisional margin of 6.6% for 2007, compared with 6.0% due principally to higher volumes and acquisitions.
Margins for the prior year.
remain under pressure and management remains focused on cost and productivity.
We are implementing a number In UK Cleaning, market conditions during 2008 are expected of service initiatives including the SmartClean daytime to remain unchanged on 2007 with pressure on margins cleaning concept: RAPID customer account management continuing, particularly in the retail sector.
We continue to roll out service initiatives across the business to add value an industry first in remote management of cleaning SMARTER CLEANING Countering the highly competitive commercial environment in the UK facilities services market, Initial has introduced efficiency initiatives including SMART cleaning, a day time cleaning concept, and RAPID Customer Account Management, an industry first in the remote management of cleaning contracts.
Initial has led the market with its deployment of daytime cleaning: innovating to match day-time cleaning needs including battery and cordless powered cleaning machines and escalator cleaning machinery which cleans without having to switch off the escalators.
Cleaner premises, cost reduction and customer benefit.
indd 26 27 3 08 02:56:36 Rentokil Initial plc Business Review PEST CONTROL 14.0 % Group Revenue 2007 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES: PRINCIPAL GEOGRAPHIES: Pest control for UK commercial, industrial USA and residential customers Germany Netherlands France OUR OBJECTIVE: To create the worlds finest and most profitable specialist pest control company, establishing leadership positions in mostly fragmented markets STRATEGIC PRIORITIES : Organic growth through improved retention and new sales Ensure strong and sustainable platform through service and operational excellence Return UK to profit growth AMBIUS 5.1% Group Revenue 2007 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES: PRINCIPAL GEOGRAPHIES: Design and installation UK of indoor plant displays USA Netherlands France Sweden Belgium OUR OBJECTIVE: To leverage existing positions to become the premier creator of workplace ambience products and service STRATEGIC PRIORITIES : Organic growth through new sales and sales productivity Focus on increasing operating profit margins Use Ambius brand to increase revenue per customer through product service extensions Turnaround UK 27 23073 001 065 SAS.
