Rentokil Initial plc Business Review and differentiate ourselves from competitors.
Retention KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Change and new business will be a key focus for 2008.
In Catering the m vs 2006 focus for growth is on the business and industry segment but Revenue 310.4 11.5% returns on education contracts are improving.
In Hospital Organic revenue 5.7% Operating profit 65.4 6.5% Services we will continue to focus on growth opportunities Adjusted operating profit 66.1 -3.1% outside the NHS.
Net adjusted margin 21.3% -3.2% Contract portfolio gain 33.4 -37.3% 2008 PREVIEW New business wins 35.1 12.5% Net additions reductions 9.3 34.8% In UK Cleaning, market conditions during 2008 are Acquisitions 22.2 -52.9% expected to remain unchanged on 2007 with pressure on Terminations 33.2 4.1% margins continuing, particularly in the retail sector.
We Retention rate 84.5% 4.3% continue to roll out service initiatives across the business 2007 REVIEW to add value and differentiate ourselves from competitors.
Overall, 2007 was a year of strong performance in Retention and new business will be a key focus for 2008.
Pest Control with results accelerating as anticipated in In Catering the focus for growth is on the business and the last three months of the year.
Fourth quarter adjusted industry segment but returns on education contracts are operating profit increased by 15.6% on revenue up 15.7% improving.
In Hospital Services we will continue to focus year-on-year.
The major drivers of improvement in Q4 on growth opportunities outside the NHS.
were the tighter management of off-season productivity in North America, contributions from Presto-X in line with the PEST CONTROL acquisition business case and strong growth, both organic and acquired, in Europe.
Full year revenue increased by MARKET CONDITIONS 11.5% and adjusted operating profit was down 3.1% on 2006.
Market conditions during 2007 have not changed However, had it not been for the impact of the inclusion significantly on 2006 with overall market growth still of a full first quarter of seasonal losses in the US business perceived to be approximately 1.5 times GDP.
The slowdown acquired on 1 March 2006, profit would have shown an in retail markets has not impacted appreciably demand for improvement year on year.
In addition, comparisons with pest control services.
Across Europe, the UK and North 2006 reflect the transfer of R&D costs previously borne America competition remains fragmented a combination centrally to the division which took place at the end of 2006 of small local operators competing for small and medium and which amounted to some 3.0 million per annum.
sized enterprises SMEs and large integrated competitors Divisional margin performance improved as the year competing for major retailers, multiples and processing progressed, beginning the year 9.5 percentage points down facilities.
on Q1 2006 and closing at the same levels as Q4 2006.
 Global warming, more international travel, demand for higher modern living standards, fewer collections of household waste there are many reasons given for the increase in demand for pest control services around the world.
In 2007, Rentokil UK saw increases in the number of call outs for services to remove or prevent bed bugs, moths and rodents, while termites, a pest traditionally associated with warmer climates, appear to be moving across Europe.
Rentokils unrivalled international expertise means that it can share expertise and develop the right services to best support its customers.
indd 28 27 3 08 02:56:57 Rentokil Initial plc Business Review The new Rentokil.
com website was successfully rolled During the year we completed the extensive reorganisation out to Rentokil branded businesses representing 91% of of our UK pest control business.
Its new management divisional revenue.
By December we were experiencing team has focused on growing the business by driving a fourfold increase in the number of visitors to the site over sales and improving customer retention through higher quality service delivery.
Against 2006, Q4 revenue grew the previous year and web-based enquiries are now higher by 5.8% against a decline of 9.6% in Q1.
Retention levels than enquiries sourced from the Yellow Pages in both strengthened further during the quarter to an annualised the UK and Spain.
rate of 81.8% and the contract portfolio has now grown During 2007 we launched new residential propositions by 2.5% since the beginning of 2007.
Q4 profit, however, in the UK, Belgium, Ireland and Portugal and, whilst still lagged 2006 by 0.6 million as the business adjusted outside North America the overall contribution from these to its new operating model, but represents a significant customers is still small, we believe we now have the makings improvement on the 1.2 million decline posted in Q1.
of a residential service offering which will make a useful Returning this business to profit growth in 2008 is contribution in the medium term.
a priority for the Pest Control division.
Divisional spend on acquisitions in the year was 42.3 North America recovered from a weak start to finish million.
The major acquisitions were Presto-X in North strongly.
The cool weather and a late start to the season America and a further six in Spain including Ambigest, adversely impacted profit in the first half, but actions to which together made Rentokil Spains leading pest improve J C Ehrlichs off-season productivity in Q4 have control operation.
been partly responsible for improving profit by 12.0% on like-for-like revenue up by 6.2% on 2006.
Although still early Continental Europe continued to build on the progress days since acquisition, Presto-X is delivering to expectations delivered in 2005 and 2006 and demonstrated a strong and we are confident that we have acquired a high-quality performance throughout the year.
Revenue grew by business that expands our national footprint in the United 10% driving profit growth of 2.9 million.
Overall organic States into an additional 16 states.
This is a continuation of growth was 5.7% and was particularly good in the important our strategy to build market share through regional anchors markets of Spain 10.6%, Italy 7.6%, Ireland 9.3% and the delivering both residential and commercial pest control.
In addition, good progress was made in gaining market share through acquisitions in Spain, Italy, Copesan, a US organisation of independent pest control Germany and France.
During the year we also took our first companies has recently taken steps to exclude JC Ehrlich step into the Baltic States, entering Estonia through the and Presto-X from membership.
This matter is under acquisition of two small businesses.
negotiation but represents a small risk to the divisions US revenue base in the short term.
CUSTOMERS DEPEND UPON RENTOKIL As part of the reorganisation of the UK pest control business, Rentokil launched a dedicated high dependency service team focused on the zero tolerance needs of customers in the food and pharmaceutical industry.
This specialist team is delivering great results.
According to Steve Edwards, Director of Operational Standards for Trading Law and Technical of Tesco, the UKs leading food retailer, Providing an effective barrier against pests is of vital importance to us in order to meet the expectations of our customers and the new Rentokil team has set the highest performance standards and provides a professional risk management reporting process.
