Rentokil Initial plc Directors Report DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The authority is normally renewable annually and approval will be sought from shareholders at the 2008 annual general meeting The company is the holding company of a group which through to renew the authority for a further year.
its operating businesses in some 50 countries provides a range of, principally, business to business support services.
of Nature of under review the company disposed of its interests in the electronic Substantial shareholdings % ordinary shares holding security sector in Europe and the United States.
A summary Aviva plc and subsidiaries 3.11 56,498,478 Direct description of the groups activities is given on the inside front Britel Fund Trustees Ltd 5.004 90,818,295 Indirect cover and a more detailed description is contained within the Legal and General Group plc 4.19 76,211,543 Indirect business review on pages 18 to 44.
The principal subsidiary Lloyds TSB Group plc 8.686 157,633,447 Indirect undertakings and joint ventures of the company Silchester International are shown on page 122.
Investors Ltd 5.29 96,039,752 Direct ValueAct Capital Management BUSINESS REVIEW LLCanditsaffiliates i 6.10 110,789,037 Indirect The business review, on pages 18 to 44 forms part of this report and 1. i  reports on the groups activities during the year and on likely future 5.42% 98,383,480ordinary developments.
The business review describes the key performance shares and the 0.68% holding of ValueAct Capital Master Fund III, LP indicators used by the board to monitor progress against strategy, 12,405,557 ordinary shares.
together with disclosures of the principal risks and uncertainties ii FranklinResources, Inc andaffiliates  affecting the business.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS The consolidated profit before income tax for 2007 was 142.0 million With the consent of shareholders at the annual general meeting in the tax on this was 30.3 million.
Dividends declared and 2007, the company is authorised under the Companies Act 2006 to recommended out of 2007 profits amount to 133.4 million.
Net communicate with shareholders or anyone with an indirect interest consolidated capital employed is 58.3 million compared to negative in shares by making such communication available on its website, in 533.6 million last year.
accordance with Schedule 5 of the Act.
Accordingly, the company will distribute its printed annual report only to shareholders who have An interim dividend of 2.13p per share, amounting to 38.5 million, indicated to the company that they wish to receive it in that form.
The board recommends the declaration The company will periodically canvas new shareholders on the form of a final dividend of 5.25p, amounting to 94.9 million adjusted for in which they wish to receive their shareholder communications.
the waiver of dividend in respect of the shares held by the trustee of Further information on shareholder services is available on page 132. the Rentokil Initial Employee Share Trust.
The total distribution for 2007 would then be 7.38p per share 2006: 7.38p amounting to BOARD 133.4 million.
Subject to shareholders approving the recommended Biographical information on the current directors of the company, dividend at the annual general meeting, the dividend will be paid including their ages and their dates of appointment, is shown on on 23 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business page 51. on 18 April 2008.
Ian Harley stepped down as a director on 18 July 2007 and at the same SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS AND SHARE CAPITAL time was appointed a director and chairman of the trustee company The company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled of Rentokil Initials UK pension schemes.
by another corporation or by an individual and there are no On the recommendation of the nomination committee, Richard arrangements in operation which may at a subsequent date result Burrows was appointed a director on 14 January 2008 and William in a change in control of the company.
As at 27 March 2008, the Rucker was appointed a director on 15 February 2008 and under following shareholders had indicated that they were interested in the companys articles of association will offer themselves for 3% or more of the companys issued share capital.
The total interests re-appointment at the annual general meeting on 14 May 2008. of such shareholders equals 32.38%.
Neither Richard Burrows nor William Rucker have a service contract with the company.
Details of movements in the companys ordinary shares during the period are provided in note 9 to the parent company Following the resignation of Brian McGowan and Doug Flynn financial statements.
as Chairman and Chief Executive respectively on 19 March 2008, it was announced on 20 March 2008 that Dr John McAdam will Authority for the company to make purchases of its own shares of up be proposed for appointment as a director at the annual general to 90.7 million was obtained at the annual general meeting on 3 May 2007.
No purchases of its shares were made by the company in 2007. meeting.
Alan Brown will be appointed a director and Chief Executive 52 23073 001 065 SAS.
indd 52 28 3 08 10:09:52 Rentokil Initial plc Directors Report on 1 April 2008 and Andy Ransom will be appointed a director magazine called Horizons which features interviews with senior on 1 May 2008, both of whom will submit themselves for election executives about major initiatives and performance.
A DVD of the at the annual general meeting.
2007 leadership conference was made available to all businesses to support the communication of company strategy.
In Europe, the The directors retiring by rotation will be Andrew Macfarlane and company meets its European Forum European Works Council at Duncan Tatton-Brown, who are eligible and offer themselves for least once a year to communicate with employee representatives from re-election at the 2008 annual general meeting.
Details of Andrew across the continent.
It maintains an open dialogue with the Forum Macfarlanes contractual arrangements with the company are at times of business change.
Divisional communications use a wide set out in the remuneration report.
Duncan Tatton-Brown does range of channels such as email, divisional intranets, electronic not have a service contract with the company.
Great importance is placed on face-to-face team meetings.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully The interests of the directors and their families in the share capital considered, taking into account the aptitudes of the applicants.
of the company on 1 January 2007, or their date of appointment if In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is later, and 31 December 2007 are set out on pages 62 to 64.
Doug Flynn made to ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial continues and Andrew Macfarlane each received an award under the companys and that appropriate re-training is made available.
It is the policy of performance share plan introduced in 2006, details of which are Rentokil Initial that the training, career development and promotion shown in the remuneration report on page 63.
No director had any of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with those beneficial interest in the shares of any of the companys subsidiaries of other employees.
Any changes in the interests of the directors and their families in the company and its subsidiary companies during the period from the end of the financial year to 27 March 2008 are POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS described in the directors remuneration report.
Richard Burrows Post balance sheet events are shown in note 35 to the consolidated holds a beneficial interest over 25,000 shares in the company accounts on page 121. purchased on 28 February 2008.
POLICY IN RELATION TO PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS DIRECTORS INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE Rentokil Initial has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers in The company has granted indemnities in favour of its directors as various countries.
These are either negotiated along with other is permitted by the Companies Audit Investigations and Community contract terms or conform to standard terms applied either by the Enterprise Act 2004.
It has also purchased insurance cover for the relevant group company or by the supplier.
It is the companys policy directors against liabilities arising in relation to the company, to pay suppliers in accordance with either negotiated or standard as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
This insurance does terms, provided that the relevant invoice is properly presented in a not cover fraudulent activity.
timely manner and is not the subject of dispute.
At 31 December 2007 the trade creditors of the group represented 57 days of annual INTERESTS OF DIRECTORS IN CONTRACTS purchases and the UK businesses trade creditors represented 56 days During 2007, no director had any material interest in any significant of purchases: UK trade debtors represented 55 days of turnover.
contract to which the company or any subsidiary was a party.
During the year the parent company did not have any trade creditors.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS As described in the corporate responsibility review on pages 45 to 49, Other than in respect of arrangements relating to employment of the group seeks continually to identify best practices within the group directors, details of which are provided in the remuneration report, in relation to employees, customers, suppliers and the communities or as set out in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements on on which we have an impact and to encourage the highest standard page 121 there is no material indebtedness owed to or by the company of responsible behaviour as well as continually to seek to operate the to any employee or any other person considered to be a related party.
business in ways which are most sympathetic to our environment.
The company publishes a corporate responsibility report annually EMPLOYEES which is available to download from the companys website, The company attaches considerable importance to communicating www.
Internal communications take place at a group, divisional, business and team level in order to ensure that employees The company takes account of social, environmental and ethical receive accurate information in a timely manner and a variety of considerations when managing the business and when contemplating structures exist for two way communications at all levels.
The company views the processes in place to manage corporate level, the group intranet is used to announce company risk and to motivate and incentivise managers described in the report news with the support of direct email communication from the as equally relevant and integral to an analysis of social, environmental executive team.
This is supplemented by a periodic electronic and ethical matters.
indd 53 28 3 08 10:09:52 Rentokil Initial plc Directors Report In 2002 the board adopted a range of corporate responsibility policies.
following the appointment and for re-election by rotation.
In addition to policies and procedures in respect of the environment The articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
and health and safety, they comprise policies on ethics, the fundamental rights of employees, equal opportunities and diversity, The board is responsible for the management of the business of the employee remuneration, training and employee development, company and may exercise all the powers of the company subject to job security and wealth creation, relationships with customers the provisions of relevant statutes and the companys memorandum and suppliers and community involvement.
In 2007 the company and articles of association.
For example, the articles contain specific reviewed and updated its ethics policy and introduced new guidance provisions and restrictions regarding the companys power to borrow for operating businesses worldwide on how their local business money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are practices should conform to the groups business principles.
also included in the articles of association and such authorities are The chief executive is the director responsible for corporate renewed by shareholders each year at the annual general meeting.
A copy of the articles of association is available to view on the companys website.
Donations for UK charitable purposes in 2007 amount to 51,000 and a further 56,000 was donated in other countries.
There were There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate no payments to political organisations.
Payments are made to a upon a change of control of the company, such as some commercial wide range of charitable organisations both in the UK and overseas.
agreements, financing arrangements and employee share plans.
The matched giving scheme whereby the company matches None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential donations made by employees following employee fundraising has impact on the group as a whole.
The remuneration and contractual been reviewed by the board and a greater effort is now being placed arrangements for the executive directors and senior management do not contain any matters that are required to be disclosed under The upon ensuring that the scheme is better utilised by employees, Takeovers Directive.
Copies of executive directors service contracts particularly those outside the UK.
are available for inspection by shareholders at the companys registered office and at the annual general meeting.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The company invests in an active programme of research and ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING development in support of its major international business The annual general meeting of the company will be held at streams.
This programme includes the conception, design, No.
4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ on 14 May 2008 at 11 a. m. testing and manufacture of new products to enhance the quality, effectiveness and safety of the companys services and minimise In addition to the adoption of the 2007 report and accounts, their environmental impact.
Where appropriate, work may be the declaration of a final dividend, resolutions dealing with the sponsored at universities with expertise in relevant areas.
The appointment and re-election of directors, incentive arrangements companys total research and development expenditure in 2007 for new directors, and the resolution dealing with the approval of the was 1.7 million 2006: 3.1 million.
directors remuneration report, there are resolutions on the following matters: the re-appointment and remuneration of the auditors, a FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS routine authority to repurchase the companys shares, authorities to The companys financial risk management objectives and policies are allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights and a general authority set out within the Financial Review on pages 40 to 44, which includes to make donations to EU political organisations.
In addition the the policy for hedging certain forecast financial transactions.
company will be proposing changes to its articles of association that The review and notes 16, 21 and 22 to the accounts also detail the are consequential on the enactment of the Companies Act 2006. companys exposure to price, credit and liquidity risks.
The company A separate letter to shareholders containing the notice of the annual is not materially exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from crossgeneral meeting and explanatory information on the resolutions to border trading transactions, although it is significantly exposed be proposed as special business accompanies this annual report.
to foreign exchange investment risks.
This annual report and the notice of the annual general report can be found on the companys website, www.
TAKEOVERS DIRECTIVE Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which By order of the board implements the EU Takeovers Directive the Company is required to disclose certain additional information.
Those further disclosures, which are not made elsewhere in this annual report, include the following: The companys articles of association give power to the board to PAUL GRIFFITHS appoint directors, but also require directors to retire and submit SECRETARY themselves for re-election at the first annual general meeting 27 MARCH 2008 54 23073 001 065 SAS.
