Rentokil Initial plc Business Review considerable improvement on 2006 when the division TEXTILES AND posted an 18.7% decline in adjusted operating profit on flat WASHROOM SERVICES revenue.
Revenue growth was 1.3% of which, organic growth was 2.3%.
MARKET CONDITIONS The market dynamics have varied more in 2007 than Following a year of flat revenue in 2006 efforts were in previous years based principally on the performance focused on restoring the division to sales growth in 2007 of local economies.
The industrial base, especially large and the business has achieved some steady portfolio manufacturers, have continued to steadily downsize.
gains throughout the period in continental Europe.
Small to medium size enterprises remain strong.
Energy, 2007 operating profit was down on 2006 in the first half labour, general regulation and environmentally related of the year but showed modest growth in the second.
costs continue to apply cost pressure across all markets.
The UK business, which accounts for 12% of divisional This drives an increasing need for innovation and revenue, has remained the most challenged part of the operational efficiencies for which larger players in the division, undergoing a major re-engineering programme markets and international operators are better placed.
Following the closure of its loss-making KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS linen and garment activities in 2006, and wipers business Change in the second half of 2007, the infrastructure of the m vs 2006 washroom business has been completely changed.
This Revenue 603.0 1.3% Organic revenue 2.3% was a necessary step in the plan to return this important Operating profit 105.9 15.0% part of the business to growth.
Adjusted operating profit 108.0 -0.4% Net adjusted margin 17.9% -0.3% Although they remain challenging, the market and Contract portfolio gain 4.7 -50.5% economic conditions experienced in continental Europe New business wins 54.6 2.2% Net additions reductions 14.8 33.3% during 2006 eased slightly with customer garment volumes Acquisitions disposals 7.5 improving modestly.
Pricing is competitive and we expect Terminations 57.2 1.1% Retention rate 90.0% 0.1% it to remain so in 2008.
2007 REVIEW During the year we completed a management restructuring Although adjusted operating profit was broadly flat of the continental European business, creating a new compared with 2006, the Textiles and Washroom Services role of Operations Director and merging the former 19- division performed significantly better in 2007.
The country national structure into seven regions.
This move business was stabilised and returned to year-on-year is improving efficiency and will also help us to develop profit growth after the first quarter.
This represents a and manage a number of international accounts.
VISIBLY HIGHER MARGINS The Initial Textiles division hires, cleans and returns 900,000 pieces of garments per week.
Increasingly, customer requirements are changing to include specialist items such as high visibility protective equipment, smart reception wear and cold room clothing.
The specialist clothing ranges are able to command higher margins.
The division recently signed an exclusive agreement to supply employees of the French national railway, SNCF, with high visibility personal protective equipment until June 2011.
The first phase will roll out in September 2008 for a minimum of 12,000 staff at 180 sites.
indd 22 27 3 08 02:56:00 Rentokil Initial plc Business Review The biggest turnaround programme during 2007 centred During the period, the Netherlands business returned to on the UK washroom business which underwent major profit and revenue growth, posting full year increases of infrastructure changes.
In the fourth quarter we announced 2.0 million and 2.1% respectively.
This is a result of a new the closure of our plants at Bradford and Chorley management team introduced earlier in the year, a smaller allowing us to complete the transfer of roller-towel and but more effective sales team and an improving contract mats processing to three new modern sites in Reading, portfolio position.
Birmingham and Glasgow by the end of January 2008, and In last years report we announced plans to exit our lossexit the wipers business.
The development of these three making hospital services business in Germany.
We secured new laundry plants and a significant number of new service a successful exit from the business in the fourth quarter centres were major achievements as we exited the year.
This led to a 6.9% decline in revenue compared The physical infrastructure changes to this business are to the prior year, but has assisted profit which is up now complete.
Despite the reorganisation, the UK business 0.8 million in the year.
was able to reduce the rate of washroom portfolio attrition during the year.
The overall effect has been a deceleration Revenue increased in the divisions business in Belgium in the rate of decline of performance ending with Q4 by 3.2% over last year but higher costs associated with profit level with prior year.
For the full year, profits were the settling down of the new plant at Lokeren resulted in 3.3 million lower than last year, but we enter 2008 with a a decline in adjusted operating profit in the second half, restructured business positioned for future development.
which held full year profits growth to 0.2 million.
In France, the industrial sector of the textiles business All of the divisions smaller continental European businesses has seen a steady trend of customer development during recorded higher revenue in 2007 and, in general, higher the year and as a result the business exited the year profits.
The change from a country to a regional management with a number of important contract wins.
The revised structure will help reduce overheads in these businesses in organisational structure put in place during 2006 has 2008.
Some small acquisitions have been undertaken during restored greater profit and loss accountability within the year in Poland and Sweden to build scale.
the business, which is the largest contributor to profit in the division.
The washroom business has seen consistent A number of capital investment programmes continued in portfolio growth throughout the year.
This can be attributed continental Europe in 2007.
The developments in Amstetten to a combination of some creative client solutions and also in Austria, Lokeren in Belgium and Brie-Comte Robert the impact of the sale of the CWS business to Elis.
On the in France were all completed to budget and on time.
strength of its return to profit and revenue growth up by A new plant for Prague in the Czech Republic continues in 8.0 million and 3.8% respectively over 2006 the business development and is due to open on schedule in the autumn was taken off the turnaround list during the year.
The total investment associated with these projects SMARTER PROCESSING STRUCTURE During 2007 the UK Washroom business made significant progress by improving its infrastructure and operations.
In particular, it opened three new processing plants in Reading, Birmingham and Glasgow, while closing its former plants in Bradford and Chorley.
The new facilities are ideally located close to major customer footprints and feature the stateof-the-art auto-roll and other processing facilities.
The new equipment achieves water recycling of up to 90% and reduces chemicals usage by a third, thus reducing cost and environment impact.
