Report of the Directors of The Restaurant Group plc The Directors present their Annual Reportand the Group Accounts for the year ended 30 December 2007.
Results and dividends The results forthe year ended 30 December 2007 arepresented under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The Report and Accountsare drawn up ona52week reporting basis endingon30December 2007.
The results for the year areset out in the Groupconsolidated income statement on page 36.
This showsaGroup profit after taxation of 29.2m 2006:14.4m.
An interim dividend of 1.26p per sharewas paid on 18 October 2007.
The Directors proposeafinal dividend of 5.99p per sharetobepaid on 9July 2008 bringing the ordinary dividend payable in respect of 2007 to 7.25p 2006: 6.00p.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Group is the operation of restaurants and pub restaurants.
Further information relating to the business includingareview of the yearsperformance and planned developments is given in the Chief Executive .
Directors Full details of the Directors of the Company aregiven on pages 10 and 11.
The Directors who held office during 2007 wereasfollows: Alan Jackson Andrew Page Stephen Critoph Kevin Bacon Trish Corzine John Jackson Andrew Thomas retired on6February 2008 David Richardson from1February2007 Tony Hughes was appointedasa non-executive Director of the Companywith effect from1January 2008.
Andrew Thomas retired from the Boardon6February 2008.
In respect of 2007, each of thenon-executive Directors excluding the Chairman is considered by the Boardtobeindependent.
Alan Jackson transitioned from executive Chairman to non-executive Chairman on1January 2006 and following his tenureasan executive Director, isnot considered to be an independent non-executive Director.
No Director hasaservice contract withthe Company requiring morethan twelvemonths notice.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Directorsretiring by rotation areAndrew Page and Stephen Critoph who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-electionatthe Annual General Meeting.
Tony Hughes offers himself for election at the AnnualGeneralMeeting of the Company, being the first opportunity for shareholders to approve his appointment.
John Jacksonhas beenanon-executive Directorofthe Company for morethan nine years, and, in accordance with corporate governance best practice, also offers himself for re-election.
The Boardconsiders John Jackson to remain independent and recommendshis re-election as an independent non-executive Director.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors: John Jackson Chairman Andrew Thomas David Richardson from1February2007 During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors: Andrew Thomas Chairman John Jackson David Richardson from1February2007 During the year the Nominations Committee comprised the following Directors: John Jackson Chairman Alan Jackson Andrew Page Andrew Thomas David Richardson from1February2007 Following his appointment asanon-executive Director, Tony Hughes has been appointed asamember of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
Andrew Thomas retired from the Boardand the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on6February 2008.
The Directors remuneration report, which includes detailsofDirectors remuneration and interests in the Companysshares and options, together with information on service contracts, is set out on pages 23 to 29.
12 The RestaurantGroup plc Annual Report 2007 Directors shareholdings The interests of the Directorsinthe shares of the Company, all being beneficially owned, wereasfollows: At At At 5March 30 December 31 December 2008 2007 2006 Executive Directors Andrew Page 270,166 270,166 183,950 Stephen Critoph 43,250 43,250 26,250 Kevin Bacon 125,133 125,133 95,566 Trish Corzine 100,423 100,423 74,400  Alan Jackson 400,191 400,191 350,198 John Jackson 80,000 80,000 49,166 Andrew Thomas n a 52,388 48,888 David Richardson 13,000 13,000 n a Tony Hughes n a n a Details of the Directors shareoptionsare disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 28 and 29.
The closing mid-market 1 3 price of the ordinary shares on 30 December 2007 was 183p and the range during the year was 175 4pto373 4p.
Sharecapital structure 1 1 The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares of 28 8p.
The authorised sharecapital is 284,444,444 ordinary shares of 28 8p.
As at 30 December 2007, the allotted, called up and fully paid number of shares in issue was 196,605,258 shares.
Thereare no preference shares or special rights pertaining to any of the shares in issue.
Following the 2007 Annual General Meeting the Directors have had the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 18,983,936 which represented approximately one thirdofthe ordinary sharecapital of the Company at the time the authority was given by shareholders.
This authority expires at the Annual General Meeting to be held on7May 2008 and it will be proposed to extend this authority updated for the current number of shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
In addition, following the 2007 Annual General Meetingthe Directorshave the authority to make market purchases of shares in The Restaurant Group plc on behalfofthe Company up to 19,600,683 ordinary shares which represented 10% of the Companysissued 1 ordinary sharecapital.
The minimum price that may be paid for such shares is 28 8pper share.
The maximum price is the higherof5% above the average middle market quotation for the ordinary shares for the five business days preceding the date of purchase and the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highestcurrent independentbid on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List at the time the purchase is carried out.
This authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and it will be proposed to extend this authority updated for the current number of shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Group has entered into various contracts including leases during the course of ordinary businesswhich may be terminated in the event ofachange of controlofThe Restaurant Group plc.
Substantial shareholdings At 26 February2008 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or moreinthe issued ordinary sharecapital of the Company: Number of %ofissued shares sharecapital Legal&General Investment Management11,257,984 5.73 F&C Asset Management 10,233,442 5.20 M&GInvestment Management 8,708,601 4.43 NewSmith Asset Management8,541,321 4.34 JP Morgan Asset Mgmt 8,066,211 4.10 Rathbone Unit Trust Management 7,630,742 3.88 Old Mutual Asset Managers 7,493,821 3.81 Artemis Investment Managers 6,000,000 3.05 WilliamBlair Capital Partners 5,951,897 3.03 13 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007 Report of the Directors of The Restaurant Group plc continued Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The  Companysshareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance areapplied to the Company and the Companys compliance with the best practiceprovisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the Guidance on Audit Committees, together the Code.
The Company has been in full compliance throughout the year with the provisions set out in the Code except for provisions concerning the number of Directors , and the independence of the Chairman.
The Board The Boardsrole is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company and Group withinaframework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Boardreviews theGroups strategic objectives and looks to ensure that the necessary financialand human resourcesare in place to achieve these objectives, and to  against these objectives.
The Boardalso sets the Companysvalues and standards and manages the business inamanner to meet its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Boardcurrently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Executive Director of the Leisuredivision, the Executive Director of the Concessions division and three non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear on pages 10 and 11 and these demonstratearange of experience and sufficient  judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources andstandards of conduct which is vital for the success of the Group.
John Jackson acts as senior independent non-executive Director and is available to shareholders if they have reasons for concern on which contact through the normal channels is inappropriate or has failed to resolve an issue.
The roles of Chairmanand ChiefExecutive Officer areclearly defined.
The  for the leadership of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the strategic direction and operational management of the Group.
The Boardmeets onaregular basis andthereisa formal schedule of matters specifically reservedfor its decision.
This includes approval of the annual budget and the three year business plan, approval of the interim and year end Report and Accounts, review and approval of significant capital expenditure including development of new sites, significant disposals of assets and acquisitions or disposals of businesses.
Operational management areresponsible for the day-to-day runningofthe Group and  on that performance to the Board.
The Boardisresponsible for reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic direction of the Group and monitoring operational performance.
The  for the proper management of the Group and has access to the necessaryinformation to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors aresubject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, except wherethey , and to re-election thereafter at intervals of notmorethan three years.
Thereissignificant involvement from the non-executive Directors.
This involves an on-going dialoguewith the executiveDirectors including constructive challenge of performance and the Groupsstrategy.
The non-executive Directors areprovided with sufficient information to allow them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive management of the Group.
Comprehensive Boardpapers including financial information arecirculated to all Directors prior to Boardmeetings and, onaweekly basis, they receive up-to-date trading information.
The non-executive Directorshave the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors present, and this includes discussions of targets set and achieved by management.
All Directorshave access to the advice and services of the CompanySecretary andaprocedurehas been agreed for the Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, if necessary, atthe expense of the Company.
Onjoining the  Directors to receive training as to their role and its requirements and for non-executive Directors to gain an understanding of the whole business.
Non-executive Directors areactively encouragedtomeet with operational management and to visit the Groupsoperations in order to enhance their understandingofthe Groupsbusiness, its brands, employees and processes.
During 2007 therewerenine Boardmeetings with full attendance by Boardmembers.
Executive Directors areincluded in the annual performance evaluation of all senior employeeswithin the Group.
Thisinvolves a comprehensive review of performance against objectives and covers areas for futuredevelopment through appraisal documentation and meetings.
The non-executive Directors also meet in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmansperformance in the light of his fee review.
The Company acknowledges the importance of developing the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist in this, Directors aregiven the opportunity to attendrelevant coursesand seminarsand to acquireskills and experience which may enhance their contribution to the on-going progress of the Group.
The Boardand committees of the Boardhave been subject toaformal performance appraisal, throughaninternal questionnaire, and the performance of all members of the Boardisconsidered as part of the annual remuneration review process.
14 The RestaurantGroup plc Annual Report 2007 Communications with shareholders Communications with shareholders aregiven high priority.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review and Group Finance Directors review on pages 2 to9include a detailed review of the business and the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 4 to 7 includes a review of planned futuredevelopments.
Thereis a regular dialogue  including presentations after the Companys preliminary announcement of the year end results, and at the half year.
Feedbackfrom major institutional shareholders is provided to the Boardon a regular basis and, where appropriate, the Board will take steps to address their concerns and recommendations.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate withprivate and  and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims toensure that the chairmen of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions, and for all Directors to attend.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of three non-executive Directors.
There was 100% attendanceof the two Remuneration Committee meetings during 2007.
The role of this Committee and details of how the Company complies with the principles of the Code are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 23 to 29.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the non-executive Directors, the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
It met twiceduring 2007 withfull attendance.
There are written terms of referencefor the Nominations Committee.
It makes recommendations to the Boardfor the appointment or replacement of additional Directors.
It is also responsible for succession planning for the Group.
It was not felt necessary toemploy anexternal search consultant in the recruitment of T ony Hughes, given his profile and experience in the puband restaurant industry.
However, this does not imply that the Company would not useexternal search consultants for future appointments to the Board.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of three non-executive Directors.
During the year the Committee was chaired by John Jackson who is a qualified accountant.
It meets on a regular basis under its terms of reference, and meets with the Group Finance Director and the external auditors to review the financial statements and externalfinancial announcements made by the Company.
It has responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity, and reviews supplies of all non-audit services provided by the external auditors toensure that their independence and objectivity arenot compromised.
David Richardson, who is achartered accountant, brings considerable knowledge to the Audit Committee withhis experience as Finance Director of aFTSE 100 company.
The Audit Committee met three times during 2007 withfull attendance at eachmeeting.
During the year BDO Stoy Hayward LLP resigned as auditors and the Audit Committee, in conjunction with senior management, carried out a tender process for the Group audit.
Following this process, Deloitte &T ouche LLP were appointed as auditors of the Company and Group.
There werenomatters raised by BDO Stoy Hayward LLP in their letter of resignation which were required to be brought to the attention of shareholders.
Shareholders of the Company have the opportunity to re-appoint Deloitte &T ouche LLP at the Annual General Meeting to beheld on 7 May 2008.
Following the retirement from the Boardof Andrew Thomas, John Jackson has taken over the chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee and David Richardson will take over the chairmanship of the Audit Committee following the Annual General Meeting.
The Restaurant Groupplc strategy The Restaurant Groups key objectiveis togrow shareholder value and the strategy deployed to achieve this is to build abusiness capable of generating long-term sustainable and growing cashflows.
Inpursuit of this wehave built abusiness whichis focused on the growing casualeating-out market.
Wehave targeted segments of this market whichoffer distinct barriers toentry and where we can be confident of delivering good growthinprofits and cashflows and where thereis good potentialfor high returns on investment.
This has led the Group tofocus our activities in two areas Leisure and Concessions.
This emphasis was underlined by the divesting of our high street businesses Caffe Uno and Est Est Est during 2005.
The Groupoperates in the expanding casualdining market, and our offerings continue toprovide good valuefor money in comfortable surroundings and excellent servicefrom our dedicated teams.
The Groups strategy is set todeliver further organic growth through the roll-out of our brands Frankie &Bennys and Chiquito and our PubRestaurant business.
Wehave a plentifulpipeline of sites for development, coupled with a strong focus on continuing todeliver likeforlike sales growthfrom our existing restaurants.
Our Concessions business operates in a dynamicand complicated market whereour management teams havemarket-leading expertise and a track recordofinnovation and improving sales performance.
15 The Restaurant Groupplc Annual Report 2007 Report of the Directors of The RestaurantGroup plc continued The Restaurant Group plcrisk factors The BoardofDirectors regularly identify, monitor and manage potential risks and uncertainties to the Group.
The list below sets out what the Directors consider to be the current principal risksand uncertainties.
This list is not  and is, by its very nature, subject to change.
Adverse economic conditions andadecline in consumer confidence and spend in the UK.
Increased supply of new restaurant concepts into the market.
Increase in prices of key raw materials, wages and overheads including utilities.
Impact of terrorism in key locations including airports.
Increased regulation of the food and beverage industry leading to higher costs.
Possible health pandemic that may cause customers to stay away or prevent restaurants being adequately staffed.
Failuretoprovide customers with brand-standardvalue for money offerings and service levels.
Major failureofkey supplierstodeliver products intorestaurants.
Damage to our brands images due to failures in environmental health in the restaurants or from contamination of products.
The lossofkey personnel or failuretomanage successionplanning.
Breakdown in internal controls through fraud or error.
The Restaurant Group plckey  The BoardofDirectors and executive management receiveawide  delivered inatimely manner.
Listed below arethe principal measures of progress that arereviewed onaregular basis to monitor the development of the Group.
Like-for-like sales This measureprovides an indicator of the underlying performance of our existing restaurants, and highlights successful development of our offerings to best match changing consumer demandsover time.
During 2007, the Group like-for-like salesincreased by 5.5%, which followeda5%increase in 2006 anda3%increase in 2005.
New sites opened The expansion of our brands isakey driver of Groupsprofitability.
Asnoted in the Group Finance Directorsreview, potential new sites  appraisal process beforethey arepresented to the Boardfor approval.
This process ensures we maintain the quality of openings as well as the quantity of sites opened.
During 2007 the Group opened 36 new sites and plans to open 30-35 new restaurantsduring 2008.
EBITDA The ability of the Group to finance its roll-out programme is aided by strong cash flows from the existing business.
The Group defines EBITDA as operating profit beforedepreciation, amortisation and non-trading items.
EBITDA serves asauseful proxy for cash flows generated by operations and is closely monitored.
During 2007 the Group generated67.8m EBITDA, an increase of 22% on the 2006 level of 55.6m.
Operating profit margin The Boardand management closely monitor profit margins as an indicator of operating efficiency within restaurants and across the Group.
During 2007 the Group adjustedoperating margin improved by 60 basis points to 13.1%.
In addition, the Group closely scrutinises the returns on investedcapital from new site openings and the average EBITDAgenerated by restaurants.
Internal control The  the Groupssystem of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Inaccordancewith guidance for directors Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the CombinedCode the Turnbull Guidance, the Boardhas ensured that there is an ongoing process for reviewing the effectiveness of the systemofinternal control including identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, is carried out in conjunction with business planning and is documented inarisk register that has been progressively enhanced during the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for the system of internal control, the Boardisawarethat the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failuretoachieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
16 The RestaurantGroup plc Annual Report 2007 The Group has well established procedures which have been developed over many years which meet the requirementsofthe Turnbull Guidance.
Akey control procedureisthe day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Boardinall aspects of the business and their attendance at regular management meetings at whichperformance against planand business prospects arereviewed.
The Group has establishedamonthly executive management meeting wherethe four executive Directors, senior operational managersand head of functional departments review Group performance and issues affecting the Group.
Additionally, the Boardseeks to continually strengthen the internal control system wherethis is consistent with improving the relationship between risk and reward.
The Groupsassociate company, Living Ventures Limited now restructured as Pimco2637 Limited, does not fall under the same internal controls as the Group.
The internal controls within the associateare discussed with management of that companyduring shareholdermeetings and areconsidered to be appropriatefor an entity of its size.
Other key features and the processes for reviewing effectiveness of the internal control system aredescribed below: Terms of reference for the Boardand its sub-committees, includingaschedule of matters reserved for the Boardand an agreed annual programme of fixed agenda items for Boardapproval.
 clear lines of responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements.
Operational performance and operational matters areconsidered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors with senior management.
Financial performance is monitored and action taken through weekly reporting to the executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Boardagainstannual budgets approved by the Board.
Capital  processand authorisation levels, with appraisals and post-investment reviews.
Comprehensive policy manualssetting out agreed standards and control procedures.
These includehuman resources related policies, information technologyand health and safety.
Aninternal audit functionheaded by an experienced internal auditorhas access to all areas of the Company and Groupsbusiness and reports into the Board.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts The Directorsare responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclosewith reasonable accuracy at any time the financial positionofthe company, for safeguarding the Companysassets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation ofaReport of the Directorsand  report which comply with the requirements of the CompaniesAct 1985.
Financial statements arepublished on the Groupswebsite in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governingthe preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenanceand integrity of the Groupswebsite is the responsibility of the Directors.
The  also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financialstatements contained therein.
The Directorsare responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directorsare required to preparefinancial statementsfor the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EuropeanUnion and Article4ofthe IAS Regulationsand have chosen to  for the  UK GAAP.
Group financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordancewith IFRSasadopted by the EU, the Companies Act 1985 and Article4ofthe IAS Regulation.
IAS1Presentation of Financial Statements requires that  fairly for each financial year the Groups financialposition, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the  of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards BoardsFramework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, afair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Afair presentation also requires the Directorsto: consistently selectand apply appropriate accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, inamanner that provides relevant, reliable, comparableand understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSisinsufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the  and financial performance.
17 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007 Report of the Directors of The RestaurantGroup plc continued Parent company financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Information provided to auditors All of the current Directors have taken all the steps that they ought reasonably to have taken to make themselves aware of any material information needed by the Companys auditors for the purpose of their audit and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware of any relevant material information of which the auditors are unaware.
Going concern Based on the Groups plans for 2008 and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate responsibility The Restaurant Group plc TRG acknowledges that it has a significant role to play with regard to the community and wider environment in which it operates.
This statement sets out the principal areas of focus and activity that the Group has undertaken to date, and what the Group is looking at for future development, in managing its impact on customers, employees, communities and the wider environment.
This is split into five sections: Our market the area of business that our strategy is focused on.
Our environment the impact of TRG on the wider environment, and how we are seeking to reduce this.
Our people the Groups policies and actions towards our 8,500 and more employees.
Our communities how TRG interacts with those communities from which our customers and employees are drawn from.
Our shareholders those that have invested capital in the development of The Restaurant Group plc, and to whom the Directors and management of the Group are reporting to.
Our market The Restaurant Group has a clearly defined strategic aim to grow shareholder value by operating in the expanding casual dining market, focusing on those areas of this market which can offer barriers to entry, high returns on investment and strong and growing cash flows.
The general trend of a growing dining out market in the UK continues, but in recent years there has been an increased focus from customers and regulatory authorities on healthy dining issues including dietary habits, drinking and smoking.
Healthy eating Healthy eating is a personal responsibility but TRG acknowledges that as a provider of food and drink we have a role to play in providing appropriate options from which individuals may choose when they eat out.
TRG strongly believes that it should provide its guests with choice.
Whilst we do not wish to be prescriptive we aim to provide a healthy choice at each menu point, alongside more indulgent options.
For many people dining out is a treat and therefore the normal restrictions which may be applied to healthy eating on a day-to-day basis are waived in favour of enjoyment and experience.
For example whilst completing the weekly shop a consumer may choose chocolate fudge cake for their weekend dessert as opposed to a piece of fruit during the week.
During 2007 TRG worked extensively on its childrens menus to provide a selection of healthy meals alongside the more traditional dishes which, by virtue of their make-up, contain a higher number of calories.
Healthy dishes are clearly marked on the childrens menus in Chiquito & Garfunkels and all of our brands offer vegetables or salad with every childs meal.
We believe that a balanced diet is as important as regular exercise and appropriate rest and relaxation in promoting physical and mental well being.
Healthy dining is of particular concern when it affects young people, and our Chiquito, Garfunkels and Filling Station brands have childrens dishes which have no added sugar, colours or preservatives and are low in salt.
These brands also offer a free salad with every main dish on our childrens menu.
In Frankie & Bennys, all children can receive, at no additional cost, a portion of vegetables or salad with any main course, and can replace fries with jacket potatoes.
We also serve a wide range of alternatives to the traditional fried potato chip such as mashed potato, rice and jacket potatoes.
18 The RestaurantGroup plc Annual Report 2007 Hydrogenated fats In light of UK government and consumer focus with  containing high levels of fat, particularly saturated fats and artificial hydrogenated trans-fats, which have been linked to potential risks to cardiovascular health, during 2007 in conjunction with our external food safety consultants we  of our suppliers and our menu ingredients.
Wehave worked closely with all of our supplierstoidentify the types and levels of fats and oils in our ingredients to facilitate aprogramme of removal, replacement or reduction, whilst maintaining our required quality standards.
The vast majority of our ingredients 99% are now free from hydrogenated fats and oils.
Since August 2007 we have prohibited the supply of new ingredients containing added hydrogenated fats and oils.
Wecontinuetowork closelywith all of our suppliers to identify and progress opportunities for reducing overall levels of saturatedfat wherever possible and to provide healthier choices.
Whilst some trans-fats occur naturally and arefound in small amounts in meat and dairy products, concerns have been raised about artificial trans-fats, formed duringafood manufacturing process called hydrogenation that turns oils into solid semi-solid fats.
These hydrogenated fats oils can be found in products such as biscuits, cakes, margarine, processed foods and cooking oils.
Genetically modified foods For many years the Grouphas hadapolicy of not sourcing genetically modified foods and new suppliers arerequired to confirm that they will not provide The Restaurant Group with such products.
Drink aware All our restaurants operate an AreYou 21 policy, whereby we will ask for proof of identification to anyone who appears to be under21.
We also do not permit the sale of alcohol to under 18s, even if the alcohol is for consumption withameal.
All of our restaurants offer a wide range of non-alcoholic drinks including fruit juices, carbonates, minerals and non-alcoholic cocktails.
Smoking From1July 2007 we havecompliedfully with the legislation throughout the United Kingdomwhich has banned smoking in public areas.
Our environment The Restaurant Group takes its commitment to the environment very seriously.
Weare developinganumber of initiatives to reduce our impact on the wider environment, which link in with improving our cost base.
Our initial focus is ensuring we have reliable and measurabledata to monitor our impact: hence we have been upgrading our facilities to measureconsumption of gas, electricity and water.
This will allow us to analyse inefficient use of these resources and then take steps to improve our usage.
This will reduce our impact on the environment and also save costs.
We aretaking steps to recycle morepackaging and waste within the Group.
Weare working with suppliers to increase volumes of glass recycling and paper  how few suppliers areable to offer assistance in this areabut we continuetowork with them to achieve this.
We haveanumber of initiatives and trials across the Groupwhich have been instigated over the past couple of years.
We have been monitoring their progress during the 2007 and look forwardtoincreasing these schemes.
For example: During 2007 we have trialled glass recycling schemes in ten restaurants and arenow evaluating rolling this out across our restaurant businessinthe Leisuredivision during 2008.
We arealso currently working with our waste contractors to developasystem whereby we can economically recycle our cardboardwaste.
Within Frankie&Bennyswehave undertakenascheme to replace as many as possible of our light bulbs with lower wattage, more energy efficient devices.
For the past 18 months we have been installing refrigeration units that have new energy efficientcontroller technology, which can save up to 15% on energy usage and costs on refrigeration equipment.
During 2007, in co-operation with our principalfood distributor, wehave successfully trialled the use of reusable Eco-traysfor the delivery of fresh produce.
This delivery mechanism has now been rolled out to 75% of our restaurants in early 2008 and it is planned to increase this during the year.
All new units complywith the latest environmental regulations.
Our new head office at Marshalsea Road has recycling facilities for waste paper throughout the building.
19 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007 Report of the Directors of The RestaurantGroup plc continued Our people It is often said thatacompanysmost important assetisits people.
At TRG we endeavour to build great teams, in which individuals can develop their skills, contribute toasuccessful business and enjoy their time at work.
We employ over 8,500 people and this number is expanding rapidlythe roll-out of our great brandsmeans thereare plenty of opportunities for individuals to develop with the Group inavariety of rewarding and challenging roles.
Our staffhandbook clearlysets out that the Group offers equal employment rights regardless of age, colour, gender, sexual orientation, disability or religion.
This is reinforced across our teams from the recruitment process onwards.
We have clear and fair terms of employment within the Group.
All staffare provided withacontract of employment or service agreement and thereare fully documentedprocedures in place for disciplinary issues and grievances raised by employees.
The Group has adefined termination policy, should this be required.
The Group devotes considerable resource to training our teams.
Training commences on the first day of joining any of our brands and we have recently invested inanew HR system to enable continual monitoring of the development of individuals through their time with TRG.
Employees take part in performance reviews on at least an annual basis with training and development opportunities or requirements identified.
With an expanding portfolio of sitesandasizeable Group already in place, communications with all our teams areofvital importance.
All restaurants receive regular communicationpacks with updatesofwhat is happeningwithintheir brands.
We also have processes in place for monthly meetings within restaurants to cascade information throughoutthe Group.
Most importantly, our moresenior  amount of time visiting the restaurants and discussing matters with the teams.
The health and safety of our customersand employees is of paramount importance.
The Group has extensive procedures to ensurewe mitigate risks to our guests and teams as far as possible.
We have very clear procedures and standardsinplace, and to enforcethese we employexternal auditorsand carry out benchmarking of our restaurants.
We have also significantly increased the level of training in health and safety matters across the Group in recent years to further enhance the clean, safe environment for our customers and staff.
Our communities The Restaurant Group  in the local communities around our restaurants andpub restaurants.
Whilst the Group hasabroad nationwide portfolio of sites, it is vital that each site has its roots in its local community.
Whether it isaBlubeckers or Brunning&Price pub, oftenabuilding of local historical importance, that has been carefully developed maintaining many of its original features and characteristicsand so offering the warmth ofalocal inasmall rural community, orabusy Frankie&Bennysona large leisurescheme, we aim to ensureour restaurants areinvolved in their communities.
Each year our brands choose various charities to support.
During 2005, Frankie&Bennyscelebrated its 10th anniversary by supporting the BBCsChildren in Need charity, and through the effortsofour staffand customers, over 150,000 was raised for this worthwhile cause.
In 2006, Frankie&Bennys supported Great Ormond Street Hospital as the nominated charity.
The charity of the yearfor 2007 was the NSPCC, and therehave beenanumber of fund raising initiatives carried on at our restaurants to support this.
During 2007, our teams in Frankie&Bennys have been actively encouragedtoget involvedinlocal projects and we areinvolved withanumber of schools through sponsorship of sports teams up and down the country.
Chiquito also  each year to support throughamajor fund raising event across the brand on 5th of May, Cinco fide Mayo.
Cinco fide Mayo isaNationalFiesta in Mexico, so it is very appropriate that Chiquito celebratesthis date with special events at the restaurants.
In 2007 15,000 was raised on this one night alone.
During 2008 Chiquito is proud to be working with Childline to help raise funds and the profile of this worthwhilecause and  in place during the year, including the Cinco fide Mayo celebrations.
Theme nights and events areheld on an ad-hoc basis to raise funds for local causes.
Thousands of pounds worth of vouchersare donated to charitableevents every year, tobeused as raffle prizes and auction lots.
20 The RestaurantGroup plc Annual Report 2007 Our shareholders The Group has hadaclear strategy since 2001todeliver value for shareholders by focusing on sectors within the eating out market that offer high barriers to entry, wherewecan generate sustainable and growing cash flows and which offer high returns on investment.
This hasled the Group to focus investmentinto the Leisuredivision and our Concessions division, which operates principally on airports.
In 2005 the Group disposed of its high-street focussed brands, Est Est Est and Caffe Uno.
GarfunkelsinCentral London, Bath and Edinburghcontinues to perform well for the Group.
The Chairmansstatement, Chief Executives review of operations and Group Finance  further detail on the Groupsstrategy, performance during 2007 and prospects for the Group.
Donations No donations for political purposes have been directly made by the Company during the year.
Charitable events, fund raising and sponsorship areorganised by restaurants for organisations in their locality as described above.
Creditor payment policy The Companyspolicy is to agree the terms of payments with its suppliers as and whenatrading relationship is established.
The Company ensures that the terms of payment areclear and its policy is to abide by the agreed terms, provided the supplier meets its obligations.
At 30 December 2007 the Company had no trade creditors.
The Group had an average of 56 days 2006:52days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensurethat it will be able to continue asagoing concernwhile looking to maximise returns to shareholders.
The capital structureofthe Group consists of equity comprising issued sharecapital, reserves and retained earnings, debt, finance leases and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group monitors its capital structureonaregular basis through cash flow projections and consideration of the cost of financing its capital.
In December2007 the Group  exercise and further detail on this is set out in the Group Finance Directors review.
Aspart of this the Group has externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group hasa120m revolving facility anda10m overdraft facility.
Under the terms of the 120m revolving facility the Group is required to comply with its financing covenants whereby net interest charges must be covered by at least four times by EBITDA and net debt must not exceed three times EBITDA.
These covenants aretested twiceannually and aremonitored onaregular basis.
Under the terms of the previous facility the Group was required to comply with its financingcovenants whereby net interest charges must be covered by at least four times by profit beforeinterest and tax, and net debt must not exceed 2.5 times EBITDA.
During 2007 the Groupremained within its external limits throughout the year.
Financial risk management The BoardofThe Restaurant Group plc regularly reviews the  of the Group and the risks associated therewith.
The Group does not use complex financial instruments, and wherefinancial instruments areused it is for reducing interest rate risk.
The Group does not use derivativefinancial instruments for trading purposes.
Group operations areprimarilyfinanced from retained earnings and bank borrowings including an overdraft facility.
In additiontothe primaryfinancial instruments, the Group also has other financial instruments such as debtors, prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise directly from the Groupsoperations.
Further information is provided in note 26 to the accounts.
 2006, the Group entered intoathree year interest rate swap, for an initial notional amount of 25m rising to 50m from 18 April 2006 until 16 January2008, when it reduced to 30m until 16 January2009, at which date it terminates.
The fixed rate for the duration of the three years is 4.695%.
 2008, the Group entered intoafurther three year interest rate swap foranotional amount of 25m, from 18 January 2008 to 18 January 2011 atafixed rate of 4.92%.
After the impact of the interest rate swap, the average rate of interest charged during the year on the Groupsdebt was 6.02% 2006: 5.67%, and the average year end rate was 6.40% 2006:5.41%.
On 2007results, net interestwas covered 12.1 times 2006: 12.0 times by profit beforetax, interest and non-trading items.
Based on year end debt and profits for 2007, a1%rise in interest rates would reduce profits beforetax and non-trading items by 0.7% 2006: 0.1% and interest cover would reduce to 11.3 times 2006:12.0 times.
At 30 December 2007 the Group had gross borrowings attracting interest including overdraft of 79.0m 2006: 48.2m and cash balancesof1.7m 2006: 0.7m.
21 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007 Report of the Directors of The RestaurantGroup plc continued AnnualGeneral Meeting AseparateCircular is included with the mailing of the Annual Report to shareholders setting out the resolutions to be voted on at the Annual General Meeting, whichistotake place at 11am on7May 2008 at the offices of Dresdner Kleinwort Investment Bank, 30 Gresham Street, London EC2P 2XY.
The Boardbelieves that the proposed resolutions to be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting areinthe best interests of shareholders and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as theDirectors intend to do in respect of theirown beneficial shareholdings in the Company.
Auditors During the year BDO Stoy HaywardLLP resigned as auditors and Deloitte&ToucheLLP wereappointedintheir place.
Deloitte& Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors, andaresolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for their reappointment.
By order of theBoard, Robert Morgan Company Secretary 5March 2008 22 The RestaurantGroup plc Annual Report 2007
