4 Business review We add unique value to all this content by organising and labelling it Acquisition of Reuters Group PLC by within our data model, a framework which makes it easy for our The Thomson Corporation customers to use the data within their own software applications.
On 15 May 2007, Reuters and Thomson entered into a definitive agreement under which Reuters agreed to be acquired by Thomson by Our brand is a powerful asset, ranked as a Top 100 Global Brand by implementing a dual listed company DLC structure.
The essence of our brand is Trust.
Strong brands attract structure, Thomson Reuters will have two parent companies, both of customers and help to drive financial performance.
As an organisation which will be publicly listed: Thomson Reuters PLC, a new English and as a brand, we are aligned to deliver consistently on the Reuters company, and Thomson, a Canadian company which will be renamed Trust Principles of independence, integrity and freedom from bias.
Under the DLC structure, shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC will both Our business review provides information on have a stake in Thomson Reuters, with cash dividend, capital Strategy distribution and voting rights that are comparable to the rights they Markets and market share would have if they were holding shares in one company carrying on the People Thomson Reuters business.
The acquisition is expected to complete on 17 April 2008, subject to the receipt of shareholder and court approvals.
Ethics and compliance Corporate responsibility Thomson Reuters will be a leading global provider of electronically Supply chain delivered critical information and decision support tools to businesses and professionals.
By combining Thomsons strength in North America Governmental regulation with Reuters strength in Europe, the Middle East and Asia, Thomson Challenges Reuters will create a business with a global brand and presence that Supplementary information will have opportunities to grow faster than either Thomson or Reuters could on its own.
Thomson Reuters will serve the legal, financial services, tax and accounting, scientific, healthcare and media markets, 02 Strategy and will be organised in two divisions: Grow revenues, both from our core business and through our Core Plus initiatives Markets, which will consist of the existing Reuters business The core Reuters business serves a market for financial information combined with Thomson Financial: and and related services.
Professional, which will consist of Thomsons existing non-financial We are continuing to improve our product line by delivering regular business segments Legal, Tax & Accounting, Scientific and upgrades to our key products.
For example, in 2007 we took steps to Healthcare.
improve the search functionality within our products by acquiring ClearForest, a company specialising in advanced search technologies.
Thomson Reuters will adopt the following strategy for achieving Key content enhancements included strengthening our coverage of growth and delivering greater value to shareholders than either the credit derivatives market by providing access to data from Markit, a Thomson or Reuters could have achieved on its own: leading provider of credit default swaps information.
This approach of continuous product evolution is justifying increased prices and helping Capitalise on global brand and presence to drive international us to attract new users, particularly in the institutional investment growth.
community and at our largest clients.
We have also adapted our commercial model to align pricing more closely with customers use of Deliver greater value to customers through a broader range of our data, which is increasing.
electronically delivered critical information and decision support tools.
Initiatives such as our Be First campaign to highlight the breadth and depth of our services for the foreign exchange FX and Treasury Integrate Thomson and Reuters businesses to accelerate growth markets help to focus sales effort and to reinforce the strength of our and capture synergies.
The introduction of the European Unions Market in Leverage increased revenue diversity and scale, financial strength Financial Instruments Directive MiFID and Regulation NMS in the US and capital deployment to maximise shareholder return.
are creating a demand for greater transparency and driving changes in market structure.
Banks need to consolidate data from multiple venues, For more information about Thomson Reuters, see the Circular at publish trade data and demonstrate best execution.
introduced new trade publication tools, consolidated information displays and a transaction cost analysis service to help our customers address these requirements.
01 Overview As a leading electronic publisher of news and financial data, Reuters With Core Plus, we are aiming to become market leaders in electronic drives financial markets, powers newsrooms and informs individuals trading, new and hard-to-obtain information which we call high-value around the world.
Our news and information are seen by over one content, advanced technology solutions for financial services billion people each day.
Reuters runs the worlds largest multimedia companies and services for new markets.
We are creating neutral, news operation, employing over 2,300 journalists, reporting in 19 scaleable, open trading platforms to be used by both people and languages.
We also supply the data that powers the financial markets.
machines and we are seeking to be a recognised innovator in new We offer insight into the markets by creating polls, analytics, indices asset classes, consumer media and high-growth economies.
We aggregate price information collected from contributors for many asset classes and we distribute trade data Electronic trading published by exchanges and other trading venues.
Reuters has an established track record of providing electronic transaction services for the financial markets, such as our FX conversational dealing system, Reuters Dealing 3000, and our Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review 5 continued electronic bid-and-offer matching service, Reuters Dealing Matching.
of their trading and settlement operations and reduce risk by verifying We believe that the electronic trading trend is accelerating and as a details of their trading counterparties.
result we have invested in electronic trading services by building a New markets multi-asset trading platform over which we deliver Reuters Trading for We are increasing our presence in high-growth geographic markets, Foreign Exchange, Reuters Trading for Fixed Income and Reuters including China, India and the Middle East, where we are extending Trading for Exchanges, which provides equity order routing facilities our coverage of financial markets, focusing on news, company for institutions wanting to trade.
The strength of the Reuters FX user fundamental data, funds information and broker research.
In 2007 we community means that our desktop products are ideally placed to broadened our coverage of Sukuk bonds to enable us to serve the provide the access point to multiple trading services provided both by growing market for Shariah-compliant finance products.
Reuters and by third parties, giving our customers the facility to find and trade on the best prices.
The Reuters Trade Notification Service, We have identified emerging asset classes with the potential to which helps customers streamline their trade confirmation operations, become liquid markets, including real estate, environmental markets continued to see rapid growth in 2007 in the number of messages including the rapidly growing emissions trading market and freight carried.
We also extended our range of post trade services to include derivatives an asset class tied directly to growth in China and India.
Trade Affirmation and Trade Publication facilities.
This coverage is now included in our premium desktop products and in our new web-based services such as ReutersRealEstate.
com, and High-value content we have extended our commodities information services to include High value content remains at the heart of our strategy to help our shipping data.
In Russia we launched a domestic oil service to cater customers make better decisions.
During 2007 we continued to invest for the needs of the fast-growing energy market.
in extending the quality and coverage of our information as well as enhancing the tools that give our customers real insight.
This included We are also continuing to target new types of customers such as a significantly increasing our economic data coverage to 186,000 macro consumer media audience.
We are building a fast-growing presence economic series, speeding up the update cycle for company around the world with our Reuters.
com family of websites and our fundamentals and collecting operating metrics of companies to help content services for mobile devices and internet-delivered TV.
our customers gain deeper insight into the drivers of a companys financial performance.
Our depth of coverage has also been extended Simplify our organisation in order to become stronger, more in Japan, India, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and we competitive and more efficient introduced Chinese and Japanese versions of key data sets in Reuters We are working to deliver further improvements in our products and Knowledge to meet customer demand.
our customer service through a series of simplification initiatives and through these we are aiming to make 150 million of annualised cost In 2007 we launched Reuters Insight, an independent consultancy savings by 2010.
By the end of 2007, we had delivered cumulative which draws on our expert network and proprietary data to provide savings of 55 million towards this total.
This is in addition to the customised research.
885 million of cost savings delivered since 2001 through previous business transformation programmes.
New enterprise services In a highly competitive market, our customers are turning to Changing the way our product development teams work computer-driven trading and increasingly complex financial products Our product development teams are integrated into the business in order to differentiate themselves from their competitors.
Our divisions and we are streamlining our software development as we Enterprise business helps banks and other financial organisations to move to a smaller number of larger sites.
Around 45% of our automate their businesses by managing the flow of information and development resource is now located in our centres in Bangkok and transactions both internally and with their institutional customers.
Demand for structured information and data management services is increasing, driven by growth in program and algorithmic trading.
Simplifying our product delivery infrastructure and making it more robust We have a wide range of assets such as high-speed streams of We are aiming to consolidate our data centres as we move our machine-readable trading data, historical price data and risk customers and our products to a modern IP telecommunications management and position-keeping systems.
Using these tools, we network.
In 2007 we focused on the software development required to have built long-term partnerships with many of our largest clients to consolidate our product delivery infrastructures into a common help them develop and adapt their information and trading platform from which to deliver our products.
We are planning to infrastructures.
We are making our products more compelling to our deliver the first products over the new platform in 2009. customers by offering tools such as Reuters Tick History, which is used to back-test clients algorithmic trading strategies, Reuters Tick Transforming the way our content is created, collected and Capture Engine, which stores details of price movements as they processed happen, and Reuters Wireless Delivery Network, which enables our We are investing in extensive automation of our content production customers to distribute content to their employees mobile devices.
and in content quality improvements.
In 2007, we expanded the focus Reuters NewsScope is an innovative service for financial institutions of the programme from fixed income to include equities and other that want to use algorithms to drive automated trading from news asset classes.
It categorises news events so that machines can read the Modernising our customer administration systems news and the information can then be used to generate inputs to We are modernising our administration systems in order to make it trading algorithms and inform trading decisions.
We added to this faster and easier for us to provide customers with access to our capability in 2007 by introducing the Reuters News Sentiment Engine products and to simplify our ordering and billing processes.
which categorises sentiment around news stories, helping to further Improvements during the last year have included a web-based refine trading strategies.
Other product releases in 2007 included product catalogue and an eInvoicing system to enable customers to Reuters Enterprise Data Management platform, which provides tools manage their payments more efficiently.
We are also streamlining our for accessing, distributing and managing customer data, and a product log-in processes so that users can access all their Reuters counterparty data service, which helps banks to improve the efficiency products with one user ID.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007
