10 Business review continued standard of contributed content to a level which meets our customers 08 Governmental regulation high expectations.
We are regulated by several bodies in the various jurisdictions in which we operate.
Supply chain ethical code As a company we are committed to developing relationships with Under the provisions of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, suppliers whose standards are as high as our own.
Our supply chain Reuters Limited is regulated and authorised as a service company by ethical code forms the basis of our agreement with suppliers.
Based the UK Financial Services Authority FSA.
Reuters Limited has also on the recognised and well-regarded Ethical Trading Initiative Base been listed by UK FSA as a Trade Data Monitor service.
Code, our code endorses expected standards of behaviour, including a ban on the use of child labour, support for nonReuters Transaction Services Limited RTSL, through which we offer discriminatory working practices and a requirement to reduce the our foreign exchange Matching products, equities order routing, impact of the suppliers operations on the environment.
This gives us connectivity to LiquidityHub a multi-dealer aggregator for fixed an opportunity to drive our commitment to ethical and income markets and our suite of next generation transaction products environmental improvements and to demonstrate a reduction of risk such as Reuters Trading for Fixed Income and Reuters Trading for through our supply chain on a global basis and the code has been Exchanges, is also subject to regulation by the FSA.
rolled out in all regions.
Suppliers are required to confirm their Since 1 November 2007 RTSL has officially been classified as a adherence to the code when selected.
Multilateral Trading Facility MTF a classification previously known Since our code was put in place in September 2006, 97% of our top under the UK regulatory regime as an Alternative Trading System 60 suppliers have complied with it.
These suppliers provide goods or ATS.
In accordance with the passporting provisions of the EU services in potentially high-risk categories such as freight, cleaning Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID which took effect on and the provision of promotional products, or are based in countries 1 November, RTSL has utilised the passporting provisions to provide with poor human rights records as identified by the Maplecroft its services throughout all member countries of the European Human Rights Index, and collectively, they account for around 37% Economic Area.
RTSL is also subject to regulatory approvals in Australia, Hong Kong Supplier payment terms and Singapore, where it is approved by the Australian Securities and We agree terms of transactions, including payment terms, with Investments Commission ASIC, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority suppliers in advance.
Our policy is to make payments in accordance HKMA and Securities and Futures Commission, and by the Monetary with the agreed terms, provided that suppliers have also acted in Authority of Singapore.
During the third quarter of 2007 RTSL was also accordance with them.
During 2007 we made further progress in granted Rep Office status in China by the China Banking Regulatory improving our trade creditors through agreed transactions.
31 December 2007 Group Trade Creditors were equivalent to 10 days RTSLs sister company in the United States, Reuters Transaction purchases during the year 2006: 13 days.
The company had no trade Services LLC RTS LLC, is responsible for an equity order routing and creditors at 31 December 2007 or 31 December 2006. indications of interest network.
It is also licensed to offer trading in Communications networks other instruments such as interest rate swaps.
RTS LLC is subject to Our financial and media products are mainly delivered to customers regulation by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA.
over private secure high-speed communications networks.
However, For its equity derivatives products as offered through Reuters Trading the public internet is becoming more accepted in many parts of the for Exchanges, RTS LLC has also been approved by the National world and we use it extensively for our consumer content and for Futures Association and is a member of the Commodity Futures other content that does not require ultra-low latency.
we sold our network services financial extranet subsidiary Radianz, FXMarketSpace Limited, our 50 50 joint venture with the Chicago a former joint venture with Equant NV, to British Telecommunications Mercantile Exchange CME, has been authorised by the FSA, plc BT.
At the same time we entered into an eight and a half year registered by ASIC and is approved as a money broker by the HKMA.
outsourcing deal with BT which was extended in 2007 to 2015, as a result of which BT provides the majority of our networks.
This To comply with anti-money laundering AML regulations and to outsourcing deal will result in the migration of all products to IP-based reduce the opportunity for Reuters transactions products to be used services.
It will enable us to deliver greater resilience, capability and as a conduit for money laundering operations, all our regulated flexibility through the use of industry standards.
We have major subsidiaries operate appropriate AML systems and controls.
technical centres in the Asian, European and American time zones, supported by smaller local data centres.
The data centres are linked by communications services provided principally by BT Radianz see above and SAVVIS, Inc. Savvis.
The services agreements with BT Radianz and with Savvis are important to our ability to deliver products and services to customers.
Summaries of these network services agreements and the Radianz purchase and sale agreements are given on page 125.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007
