qxd 18 3 08 18:43 Page 50 50 United Kingdom audit opinion We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Independent Auditors report to the Members explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial of Reuters Group PLC statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall We have audited the Group financial statements of Reuters Group PLC for the adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow Opinion statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and In our opinion: the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Reuters Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance been audited.
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with  LLP relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section London 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving 19 March 2008 this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Information for Shareholders that is cross referred from the Business review and Operating and financial review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report which comprises the Financial highlights, Acquisition of Reuters Group PLC by The Thomson Corporation, the Business review, Overview, information about strategy, markets, people, commitment to ethics and compliance, corporate responsibility, supply chain, governmental regulation and challenges, Supplementary information, Governance, information about the Board, Directors and senior managers, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, Corporate governance and the Operating and financial review and the Information for shareholders.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007
