Business review 9 continued During the year, the Foundation offered training opportunities to Our business has a role to play in the effective dissemination of journalists and humanitarian workers from all over the world, providing environmental information.
We have a network of around 50 Reuters journalism courses for over 700 journalists and media and journalists who are an authoritative resource on environmental issues, communications skills courses for around 500 aid workers from UN with a special focus on issues such as global warming and fossil fuel agencies.
Reuters is a member of the Global Business Coalition on use.
We also share our skills in the communication of environmental HIV AIDS, an organisation which aims to increase the range and issues through the work of Reuters Foundation.
Working with Com quality of business sector AIDS programmes in the workplace and in Alliance, a group of international organisations that embraces and the community.
To build on our work in this area, Reuters Foundation supports sustainable development projects, we delivered a course to ran its fifth annual workshop on HIV AIDS reporting.
prepare journalists for coverage of the ongoing G8 Climate Change Dialogue.
The Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism was officially launched by Lord Patten, Chancellor of Oxford University, in 2006.
During 2007 we implemented an Environmental Management System Sponsored by Reuters Foundation, the Institute builds on the using data from around 20 key office locations and data centres.
partnership created by the Reuters Foundation Journalists Fellowship We have established a small number of environmental key Programme at Green College, Oxford.
Reuters Foundation has performance indicators relevant to our business and we are gathering committed to provide 1.75 million over five years to fund the data on them where practicable.
These are: international research centre.
Energy: Total electricity consumption and resulting CO2 emissions: The Institutes research aim is the rigorous, international, comparative study of journalism.
Its companion activities seminars, conferences Travel: Total CO2 emissions through centrally-booked travel: and debates also reflect its global, comparative perspective.
As a forum that brings together scholars and practitioners in the study of Water: Total consumption: journalism, the Institutes output is expected to span a broad range from academic research to media comment and internet output.
It is Waste: Total waste produced, total waste recycled: developing its website as a premier reference point in the field.
Paper: Mass of paper purchased: mass of recycled content.
Reuters AlertNet, a humanitarian news website set up by the Foundation in 1997, aims to keep relief professionals and the wider We recognise that our business air travel has an impact on the public up-to-date on humanitarian crises around the world including environment.
In 2007, we reduced the number of flights taken by our emergencies largely neglected by mainstream media.
employees when compared to 2006 levels and wherever possible we use alternatives to business travel, including video tele-conferencing.
AlertNet for Journalists, a set of tools and resources to help reporters worldwide cover difficult crises, was completed in 2007.
Jointly funded We continue to hold our annual staff awareness-raising event, Green by Reuters and Britains Department for International Development, Week, delivering information to staff in a variety of ways including the toolkit includes detailed crisis briefings, aid agency contacts, films, guest speakers, blogs, intranet briefings, exhibitions and humanitarian statistics and early warning of disasters.
In 2007 we expanded this initiative, creating a rolling programme of Green Weeks around the world.
Thirteen locations All employees may take at least one day of company time each year delivered events in the 8-month period from May to December.
As a to engage in community activities.
We focus on these activities during result, our Green Teams were able to introduce bio-degradable our annual Community Events Week programme.
In 2007, over 4,500 consumables in our London and New York restaurants.
A scoping employees participated, sharing their skills on projects ranging from study during the year identified opportunities for us to further reduce schools workshops, mentoring team challenges and fundraising work.
our resource consumption and our environmental impact.
Reuters volunteers also continued to work on house building projects 07 Supply chain run by Habitat for Humanity.
During the year volunteers worked on projects in tsunami-affected villages near Pondicherry, India and in Sourcing flood-hit villages in Guangdong province, China.
Our sourcing operations are the responsibility of a single global sourcing team, with the exception of content sourcing, which is We also operate programmes in the US, UK and Asia which match the charitable donations and fundraising efforts of our employees.
managed by our Content group.
Charitable cash donations totalled 1.7 million during 2007 As a global company, we source goods and services from an extensive range of suppliers.
Over the last few years we have reduced our 2006: 1.8 million.
This included funding of 1.1 million to Reuters Foundation, with the balance going mainly to community, health and supplier list, despite increasing the range of services we outsource.
In 2007 3% of vendors accounted for 85% of our third party spend.
The functions we outsource include telecommunications and network It is the Groups policy not to make political contributions and none services, travel, print services, IT support and elements of back office were made in 2007. administration.
We have been certified in the UK by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply for excellence in our sourcing Environmental impact processes and have also received ISO 9000 accreditation for our We are classified by Ethical Investment Research Services EIRIS as Singapore operations.
belonging to a sector with low environmental impact, however we know that we have a responsibility to manage our impact and In addition to producing content in-house, our Content team consumption of resources.
We seek to reduce our impact on the aggregates and distributes data sourced from 250 exchanges and environment by managing our data centres and facilities efficiently 4,000 financial services contributors within our products.
Our extensive and by raising employee awareness of environmentally friendly global customer base and distribution network make us an attractive choices at work, at home and when travelling.
distribution partner for content providers.
We are continuing to roll out our content supplier management programme to raise the Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007
