Directors and Officers Rolf Brjesson Peter Ellwood Michael Buzzacott Noreen Doyle Wolfgang Meusburger Jean-Pierre Rodier Carl Symon Leslie Van fide Walle Bill Barker Graham Chipchase David Robbie David Gibson 42 Rexam Annual Report 2007 The Board considers that, with the exception of the Chairman, all the Executive Directors non executive directors, including Peter Ellwood, are independent.
Leslie Van fide Walle 51 Chief Executive Officer Chairman Appointed to the Board on 17 January 2007 and as Chief Executive Rolf Brjesson 65 Officer on 1 February 2007.
Until December 2006, Leslie was Appointed to the Board on 10 January 1996 and as Chairman Executive Vice President of Global Retail of Royal Dutch Shell plc.
He will retire from the Board at the conclusion to joining Shell he held a number of senior international management of the AGM on 1 May 2008.
Rolf was the Chief Executive of the positions with Cadbury Schweppes plc and was Chief Executive of Company from 1 July 1996 to 25 May 2004.
He is also Chairman United Biscuits plc.
He is a non executive director of Aegis Group plc.
of Ahlsell AB and a non executive director of Avery Dennison Corporation and Svenska Cellulosa AB.
Bill Barker 58 Group Director Beverage Cans Chairman Designate Appointed to the Board on 21 January 2005 with overall Peter Ellwood 64 responsibility for the Beverage Cans business.
Bill joined Rexam Appointed to the Board as a non executive director and Chairman in 2001 as Sector Director of Rexam Beverage Cans Americas and Designate on 1 February 2008.
It is proposed that he will succeed in 2005 became Group Director Beverage Cans.
Before joining Rolf Brjesson as Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM 2008.
Rexam, Bill was President of the Commercial Solutions Group of Peter was Chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC ICI until ICI Textron Fastening Systems and President of OEA Automotive Safety was acquired by Akzo Nobel NV at the beginning of 2008.
Prior to Products: both companies were headquartered in the US.
that, he was Group Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc.
He is Chairman of the Royal Parks Charitable Foundation and, subject to Graham Chipchase 45 Akzo Nobel NV shareholder approval, he will be appointed to the Group Director Plastic Packaging Supervisory Board of Akzo Nobel NV on 22 April 2008.
Appointed to the Board on 10 February 2003 as Group Finance Director and became Group Director Plastic Packaging with overall Non Executive Directors responsibility for the Plastic Packaging business on 14 July 2005.
Michael Buzzacott 60 Before joining Rexam, Graham was Finance Director of GKN plcs Appointed to the Board on 17 May 2000.
Michael is currently Aerospace Services business and, before that, he held various a non executive director of Croda International Plc and Chairman positions within the BOC Group plcs US and European subsidiaries.
of Earls Nook Limited, a private company in the biofuels industry.
He held various senior international positions in BP p. l. c. until his David Robbie 44 retirement as Group Vice President, Petrochemicals in 2004.
Finance Director Appointed to the Board on 3 October 2005.
Before joining Rexam, Noreen Doyle 58 David was Chief Financial Officer of Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV Appointed to the Board on 22 March 2006.
Noreen is currently and, before that, Chief Financial Officer of CMG plc.
He is a non a non executive director of Credit Suisse Group, Newmont Mining executive director of the BBC.
Corporation and QinetiQ Group PLC, and a member of the Advisory Panel for the Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund II.
She held Company Secretary various senior operational positions at Bankers Trust Company and David Gibson 45 at the European Bank for Reconstruction & Development EBRD until Changes to the Board her retirement as First Vice President of the EBRD in 2005.
Lars Emilson retired from office as Chief Executive on 1 February Wolfgang Meusburger 54 2007 and David Tucker, a non executive director, retired from office Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2006.
Wolfgang currently on 3 May 2007. sits on the board of a number of international consumer goods Senior Management companies based in Europe and is Chairman of the non executive Together with the executive directors, the following are part of board of Schoellershammer and a non executive director of BS Rexams senior management team.
In addition to his Group Director Group, CCT Reig Group and Chiquita Fruit Bar.
He has held various role, Graham Chipchase has assumed responsibility for the senior international positions in the consumer goods industry and was Healthcare division.
Chief Executive of Tchibo GmbH until 2001.
He now acts as an advisor on management issues and business development.
Graham Chipchase, Plastic Packaging Healthcare Jean-Pierre Rodier 60 David Beckmann, Plastic Packaging Closures Appointed to the Board on 7 June 2006.
Jean-Pierre is currently an Robert Brands, Plastic Packaging Personal Care associate with Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario.
He is also Chairman of Enterprises et Personnel and an advisor to Corporate Tomas Sjlin, Beverage Cans Europe & Asia Value Associates.
He was Chief Executive of Union Minire and Harry Barto, Beverage Cans North America Chairman and Chief Executive of MetalEurop France prior to his appointment as Chairman and Chief Executive of Pechiney until Andr Balbi, Beverage Cans South America 2003 when Pechiney merged with Alcan.
Rudolph Kalveks, Business Development Carl Symon 61 Jonathan Thornton, Communications Appointed to the Board on 17 July 2003 and as senior independent director on 8 February 2006.
Carl is currently Chairman of HMV Roger Bellis, Human Resources Group plc, the BT Group Equality of Access Board and Clearswift Paul Martin, Information Management Systems Limited.
He is also a non executive director of BT Group plc and Rolls-Royce Group plc, and an Advisory Board member of David Gibson, Legal Cross Atlantic Capital Partners.
He held numerous executive positions with IBM Corp. in Canada, the US, Latin America, Asia and Europe.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IBM UK, until his retirement in 2001.
