Directors Report The directors present their Report, the audited Group consolidated Disposal financial statements and the audited Company financial statements On 12 March 2007 Rexam announced the sale of its Glass business for the year ended 31 December 2007. to Ardagh Glass Group PLC for a net consideration of 401m.
The sale completed on 21 June 2007. Business Review A review of the development and performance of the Group, Directors including the financial performance during the year, can be found in The Board of directors for the year ended 31 December 2007 the Business Review on pages 14 to 41.
The principal activities and and at the date of this report are set out on page 43. financial summary relating to the Group are set out on pages 1 to 3, Leslie Van fide Walle was appointed as an executive director on with the key performance indicators on page 15.
A description of 17 January 2007 and as Chief Executive Officer on 1 February the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed 2007.
Lars Emilson retired as Chief Executive on 1 February 2007 on pages 27 to 30. and David Tucker retired as a non executive director on 3 May 2007.
The Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the members Peter Ellwood was appointed as a non executive director and of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, Chairman Designate on 1 February 2008.
It is proposed that he its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume will replace Rolf Brjesson as Chairman of the Company when Rolf responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or retires from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability Meeting AGM on 1 May 2008. is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Group described in this Annual During 2007 and up to the date of this report there were no further Report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances changes to the Board.
can cause results and developments to differ materially from those As Peter Ellwood has been appointed to the Board since the date of anticipated.
The forward looking statements reflect knowledge and the last AGM he is required to stand for election at the AGM 2008. information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report In addition, Bill Barker, an executive director, will retire by rotation and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward from the Board at the AGM 2008 and, being eligible, will offer looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be himself for re-election.
The Boards reasons for, and recommendation of, the election Dividends of Peter Ellwood and the re-election of Bill Barker can be found Subject to shareholder approval, the directors have proposed a final on page 49 of the Corporate Governance Report and in the 2007 dividend of 11.7p per ordinary share.
The total dividend for Notice of AGM 2008. the year ended 31 December 2007 is 20.0p per ordinary share 2006: 19.0p.
In accordance with section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose that the rules regarding the appointment and Dividends on ordinary shares replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Dividend Ex-dividend Record Payment Association Articles, which may only be amended with shareholder per share p date date date approval in accordance with relevant legislation.
The powers of the Interim 2007 8.3 10.10.07 12.10.07 06.11.07 directors are contained in the Companys Memorandum of Proposed final 2007 11.7 07.05.08 09.05.08 03.06.08 Association and Articles.
The Articles give the directors powers, subject to relevant legislation, to authorise the issue and buy back Principal acquisitions and disposals of the Companys shares by the Company, subject to authority being Details of the Groups principal acquisitions and disposals can be given to the directors by shareholders in general meeting.
The found in the Business Review.
The following is a summary of the most Company annually seeks the authority of shareholders to authorise significant transactions.
the exercise by the directors of these powers.
A copy of the Acquisitions Companys current Articles can be found on the website, On 1 June 2007 the Group announced that it had entered into a www.
joint venture arrangement with Envases Universales fide Mexico SAPI The service contracts of the executive directors and letters of fide CV to participate in a new beverage can plant in Guatemala.
appointment for the non executive directors are available for Rexam has taken a 50% stake in the joint venture company for an inspection at the registered office of the Company and will initial investment of 14m.
be available at the AGM 2008, as specified in the Notice The acquisition of the OI Plastics business of Owens-Illinois, Inc. was of AGM 2008. announced on 11 June 2007 for an initial consideration of 905m.
Directors interests Following regulatory approval, and shareholder approval at an None of the directors had any interest during or at the end of Extraordinary General Meeting on 28 June 2007, the acquisition the year in any contract of significance in relation to the business completed on 1 August 2007. of the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
Post balance sheet acquisition Full details of the share interests of those directors holding office on On 4 July 2007 Rexam announced its intention to acquire Rostar, 31 December 2007 in the ordinary share capital of the Company, a Russian beverage can maker, for a total cash consideration of including any interest of a connected person, are set out in the 149m, including borrowings assumed.
Regulatory approval from Remuneration Report.
the Federal Antimonopoly Service of the Russian Federation was received on 8 January 2008 and the acquisition completed on 31 January 2008.
44 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Substantial shareholdings Research and development At the date of this report, the Company had received notification The Group aims to keep in the forefront of all relevant product, from the following financial institutions of their and their clients process and system developments in the markets in which it operates.
interests in the voting rights of the Company, in accordance with Rexam works actively to manage a balanced innovation portfolio of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial Services custom and Rexam standard products.
This has been achieved by Authority FSA, and which are required to be disclosed under section establishing internal and customer led innovation programmes.
The number of shares and Rexams leadership in this area is demonstrated by the number of percentage interests stated are as disclosed at the date on which new consumer packaging products launched which include Rexams the interests were notified.
aluminium bottle, Fusion, which is fully recyclable and manufactured using the drawn wall ironed technology, and a plastic airless piston Interests of 3% or more in issued ordinary share capital package which protects and dispenses skincare preparations.
With Shares % the acquisition of the OI Plastics business, the Group now has a Barclays PLC 26,987,197 4.85 plastic packaging research and development facility in the US.
INVESCO Limited 76,972,606 11.97 Expenditure on research and development during the year amounted to 14m 2006: 14m.
Legal & General Group Plc 26,509,144 4.12 Schroder plc 32,309,404 5.03 Corporate responsibility Wellington Management Co LLP 31,313,624 4.88 Information relating to the Companys policies towards environmental, social and governance areas of corporate responsibility CR can be Information provided to Rexam pursuant to the DTR is publicly found in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Review.
available via a Regulatory Information Service or on the Companys Rexam has a comprehensive CR section on its website, where website, www.
numerous case studies, policy documents, facts and figures Share capital underlining Rexams involvement in and commitment to the 2 The Company had ordinary shares of 64 7p each in issue at environment, our people, the community, our suppliers, emerging 31 December 2007.
Full details of the Companys authorised and markets and governance can be found.
issued share capital, together with details of the rights and restrictions Payments to suppliers attaching to the ordinary shares can be found in note 27 to the The Groups operating businesses are responsible for the terms and consolidated financial statements.
conditions under which they conduct business transactions with their suppliers.
It is Group policy to agree the terms of payment and make Significant agreements change of control payments to suppliers in accordance with those terms, provided that The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements suppliers have complied with all relevant terms and conditions.
that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
The Company has committed debt facilities all of which The Company had 10 days 2006: 21 days purchases outstanding are directly or indirectly subject to change of control provisions, at 31 December 2007 based on the average daily amount invoiced albeit that the facilities do not require mandatory prepayment on by suppliers.
At 31 December 2007 the facilities subject Donations to these provisions are: Charitable donations made by the Group in 2007 are shown in the Debt facilities table.
No donations were made for political purposes.
Amount Maturity Charitable donations Medium term notes 370m March 2009 2007 2006 700m March 2013 UK 48,000 61,000 Subordinated bond 750m June 2067 Worldwide 320,000 589,000 Committed bank facilities 935m Between September 2010 and December 2012 In the UK, donations were given to Kidscape, which aims to keep children safe from abuse, the Childrens Safety Education Foundation, Details of the service contracts of the executive directors and the which provides educational material to help save childrens lives and letters of appointment for the non executive directors are summarised also various health and medical research charities.
in the Remuneration Report, together with the Companys policy on a change of control.
Worldwide donations included the purchase of medical equipment for local hospitals in Russia, a donation to the Camp Coca-Cola Financial risk management Foundation in the US and contributions to support charity sporting The financial risk management and objectives of the Group and the events around the world.
exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk are set out in the Business Review and note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 45 Directors Report Employees Annual General Meeting 2008 The Rexam Way culture is a fundamental characteristic of the The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00am on 1 May Companys day to day activities and distinguishes the Company as 2008 at Church House, Deans Yard, London SW1, details of which a market leader and an employer of choice.
Continuous Improvement, can be found in the Notice of AGM 2008.
Trust, Teamwork and Recognition are the core values that the Group Purchase of own shares has chosen and which involve, inform and motivate employees to At the AGM 2007, shareholders passed a special resolution work towards the vision of making Rexam the leading global renewing the authority to the Company, in accordance with the consumer packaging company.
Rexam has developed a number Articles, to purchase its own ordinary shares in the market.
of key HR programmes, such as the Impact Program, the Talent Management Program and the Horizon Program, whose aims are No ordinary shares have been purchased in the market, nor has any to raise overall employee performance and systematically develop contract been made to purchase ordinary shares under the previous employee talent.
Rexam people are at the core of the Groups or existing authorities from 1 January 2007 to the date of this report.
strategy to deliver profitable growth, operational excellence and The directors are seeking to renew the authority at the AGM 2008. satisfied customers.
Further details can be found in the Notice of AGM 2008.
Further information on the Groups training and development Share purchase authority programmes can be found in the Business Review on pages 30 AGM 2008 AGM 2007 Proposed number Approved number and 31.
10% of issued ordinary share capital 64.26m 58.3m The Group has active policies of equal opportunity ranging from selection and recruitment to training and development which meet the Directors statement needs of its operations around the world.
Disabled people are given Each person who is a director of the Company at the date full consideration for employment and subsequent training including, of approval of this report confirms that: if needed, retraining for alternative work where employees have so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit become disabled, career development and promotion on the basis information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and of their aptitudes and abilities.
each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Communication with employees has an important focus through team taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant briefings where employees can participate and give their views on audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is any aspect of the Groups business.
The Chief Executive Officer also aware of that information.
issues online updates to employees through the Groups intranet and answers questions asked by employees through his web blog.
Auditor The Groups annual and interim results announcements are presented In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, at the subsequent team briefings and employees are given the a resolution for the re-appointment of  LLP opportunity to comment on the financial and economic factors will be proposed at the AGM 2008. affecting the Groups performance.
The Groups global intranet is an immediate source of information and knowledge.
At regular intervals an electronic newsletter, Group News, is produced and distributed On behalf of the Board globally to employees.
This supplements the communications David Gibson produced by the businesses to keep their employees informed of Company Secretary what is happening in and around the Group.
20 February 2008 The Rexam European Forum REF is a joint employee representative and management body created for the exchange of information and dialogue concerning issues which may impact Rexams employees within the European Economic Area.
The REF holds an annual meeting attended by the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management.
A smaller coordinating committee drawn from within the REF exists to discuss organisational issues as well as any exceptional business issues which may arise and which may have an impact on Rexams European employees.
The Company has well established employee share schemes to promote share ownership, as described in the Remuneration Report.
Competitive retirement and benefit packages are offered and, subject to the culture, market practices and regulations in the countries where we carry out our business, benefits may be provided in whole or in part by the government, private or supplementary Rexam sponsored programmes.
Financial details of the Groups worldwide retirement benefit arrangements can be found in the Business Review and note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
