RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Scott Forbes Ed Williams residential property businesses during his team that continues to consulting with Chairman Group Managing Director services worldwide.
tenure at Cendant and run Rightmove and leads McKinsey & Co, Scott Forbes was Ed Williams was Scott established held similar roles for the day-to-day Accenture and appointed Chairman of appointed to the Board the international other companies in other operational management JPMorgan.
Appointed Rightmove plc in July of Rightmove plc in headquarters in London sectors, including of the Group.
He has over 25 December 2000, shortly in 1999 and led this National Car Parks and Chairman of Holiday years experience in after joining the newly division as group Green Flag.
Prior to his Lettings Limited in which operations, finance and founded business as managing director until time at Cendant, Scott Rightmove has a twomergers & acquisitions Group Managing he joined Rightmove.
was a certied public thirds ownership stake.
Ed formed the He was chairman or accountant.
Appointed His prior experience is in at Cendant Corporation.
senior management chief executive of various 13 July 2005. business strategy and IT Cendant was formerly residential property the largest provider of and travel industry Stephen Shipperley Judy Vezmar Nigel Cooper agency business in range of LexisNexis various listed company Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director the UK with interests in successful online legal regulations.
He is Stephen Shipperley Judy is the chief Nigel was formerly a residential estate agency, research services to also a member of joined the Board on its executive officer of senior partner at KPMG surveying, financial customers as the the Remuneration formation in 2000.
After a 33-year services, relocations and industry continues to Committee.
Nigel was Stephen has over 30 Europe, Canada, Latin career in the accounting conveyancing.
shift away from ofine previously Lead Audit years of experience in America and Africa profession, he joined Appointed 30 June hard copy research and Advisory Partner for the property industry.
He headquartered in Rightmove plc in January 2000. publications.
Appointed KPMG LLPs Information, is group chief executive London and a subsidiary 2006 as a non-executive 16 January 2006.
Communications and of Connells, which has of Reed Elsevier.
Nigel is Member of the Audit, Entertainment Group grown to become the responsible for chairman of the Audit Remuneration and based in London.
second largest estate expanding the reach and Committee, where he Nomination Appointed 16 January provides oversight of Committees.
Chairman of the the financial reporting Audit Committee and practices, internal member of the control environment and Remuneration compliance with the Committee.
16 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Graham Zacharias FCA Nick McKittrick with Coopers and as Finance Director of businesses and took architect in the Group Finance Director Managing Director of Lybrand, working in BTRs Aerospace Group.
over the operational government and Graham Zacharias was Rightmove.
co. uk Spain for several years Graham was formerly responsibilities for the telecoms sectors before appointed Group Nick McKittrick joined before joining Group Finance Director property website advancing into the Finance Director of Rightmove plc in 2000 to Schlumberger where he for over nine years at advertising business management of largeRightmove plc in focus on technology and held a number of finance Spectris plc, a process from 2005.
Before scale projects across January 2006.
He led the roles in Dubai and and control and joining the Company he various industry sectors.
33 years of experience development of the London.
He then moved instrumentation worked in Accentures Appointed 5 March in a range of operational Companys original to Singapore as company in the FTSE management 2004. and financial roles in a website and technology Managing Director of a 250.
Appointed 17 consultancy team public company arena.
platform, built the new small, publicly-quoted January 2006. for eight years in the He qualied as a homes business, company before technology consulting chartered accountant overseas and lettings returning to the UK division as a technical Colin Kemp Jonathan Agnew Liz Taylor Contact Centres, one of group chief executive has 20 years company Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Company Secretary the largest call centre of Kleinwort Benson.
secretarial experience Colin Kemp was Jonathan joined the Liz Taylor was appointed operations in Europe, He has been Chairman across a variety of public appointed to the Board in Board in January 2006 Company Secretary of and heading up the of Nationwide Building companies.
He is as Senior Independent Rightmove plc on 4 July Halifax Employee Share Society, Limit and joining Rightmove, she managing director of Director.
She is a Fellow of Services business Gerrard Group and has was Company Secretary Halifax Bank of Scotland appointed as Chairman the Institute of Chartered administering employee served on the Council of The Berkeley Group HBOS Retail Network, of the Remuneration Secretaries and share plans to over 400 of Lloyds.
He is Administrators and UK companies, including 16 January 2006. bank branches across Chairman of Beazley 27 of the FTSE 100.
Chairman of the Scotland, Northern Group, LMS Capital, From January 2005 to Remuneration Ireland and the North of The Cayenne Trust December 2007, he was Committee, member of England.
With over 25 and Ashmore Global Managing Director of the Audit and Nomination years experience in high Opportunities.
Jonathan Halifax Estate Agents Committees.
street retail banking, Colin was an investment Ltd. Colin is a Craneld has worked for HBOS banker for over 25 years, MBA and an Associate of companies since 1979. including being a the Chartered Institute of His roles have included managing director of Marketing.
Appointed 3 running the HBOS Retail Morgan Stanley and July 2007.
