RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Miles Shipside Scott Marshall Peter Brooks-Johnson Alan Gearing Commercial Director Finance Director of Product Director Property Related Services Miles joined Rightmove Rightmove.
co. uk Peter joined Rightmove Director as a founding Director in Scott joined Rightmove in in 2006 and focuses on Alan joined Rightmove in 2001 bringing 20 years 2001 as Finance Director the development of the 2006 developing new of experience at senior and was Company Rightmove proposition to sources of revenue levels in independent Secretary until the IPO in customers including the separate from advertising.
Scott led the development of the As MD of Cubitt and West Halifax Estate Agency.
preparations for the oat Rightmove Choice and Estate Agents, part of the He has responsibility on the London Stock AboutMyPlace services Arun Group, he was the for estate agency and Exchange in 2006 and and the recent complete earliest major estate agent media relations, led the recent Scheme of redesign of the website.
to join Rightmove in 2001. specialising in advising Arrangement to introduce Peter was formerly a Prior to Rightmove he was the industry on how the and list a new holding management consultant a founder of both The internet is transforming company for the with Accenture and The Asset Management Group home moving and the Rightmove Group.
Scott Berkeley Partnership property disposal and state of the housing is a director of Holiday working with clients such maintenance services and market.
He qualied as Lettings Limited.
Scott as BP, Marks & Spencer The Inventory Exchange a chartered surveyor qualied as a chartered and Woolwich.
online inventory and in 1982. accountant in Australia property inspection.
Peter Armstrong Justin Figgins Simon Hickie New Homes Director Overseas Director Human Resources Director Peter joined Rightmove Since 2006 Justin has Simon joined Rightmove in 2003 as one of the been Director of in 2007 following seven first handful of people Rightmove Overseas, years at Bloomberg LP developing the New which caters for British where he was responsible Homes business, a homebuyers looking for for HR operations across business which he has property abroad.
He Europe, the Middle East run since May 2006.
He joined Rightmove in and Africa.
Prior to moving is now responsible for 60 2005 as Head of Group into HR, he had managed people in Rightmoves Strategy responsible for part of Bloombergs fastest growing business M&A opportunities, new financial research unit and is part of the business ventures and operation covering new new homes industry execution of the debt and equity security community.
Prior to Companys otation in issuance and M&A activity Rightmove, Peter March 2006.
Simon has worked in sales and 14 years of experience recently led a significant sales management, in corporate finance upgrading of employee latterly in directory and strategic planning remuneration and benets advertising with Yell.
including with and career development.
18 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 People are at the heart of our business Our employees are our largest resource and our most highly valued asset 19
