qxd 11 7 07 11:56 am Page 34 34 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report and the audited accounts for the financial POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS year ended 30 April 2007.
Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment terms agreed with each of them.
The number of Group creditor days at 30 April 2007 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES was 72 days 30 April 2006: 57 days which reects the terms agreed with The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment holding and individual suppliers.
There were no trade creditors in the Companys balance management company.
The principal activity of the Group is the rental of sheet at any time during the past two years.
equipment to industrial and commercial users mainly in the non-residential construction sectors in the US and the UK.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS Charitable donations in the year amounted to 52,839 in total TRADING RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS 2006: 29,914.
No political donations were made in either year.
The Groups consolidated loss before taxation for the year was 36.5m 2006: profit of 81.7m.
A review of the Groups performance and future CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY development, including the principal risks and uncertainties facing the The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate Group, is given in the Business and Financial Review on pages 14 to 31. responsibility.
It places a high priority on compliance with all legislative and These disclosures form part of this report.
The Group paid an interim regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, dividend of 0.55p per ordinary share in February and the directors across the Group.
We seek continually to improve our performance in terms recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.1p per ordinary share, of employee development and health and safety in particular, as without to be paid on 28 September 2007 to those shareholders on the register the highest standards in these areas, our business model simply would not at the close of business on 7 September 2007, making a total dividend work.
Over the coming year we intend to formalise and coordinate these for the year of 1.65p 2006: 1.5p.
individual corporate responsibility initiatives across all our territories and to increase the reporting of these at Group level.
SHARE CAPITAL AND MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 18 to the financial Employees statements.
So far as the Company is aware, the only holdings of 3% Our employees are our greatest asset and we place enormous value on the or more of the issued share capital of the Company as at 22 June 2007 welfare and commitment of our employees as well as the superior level of the latest practicable date before approval of the financial statements service they provide for our customers.
At 30 April 2007, the total number are as follows: of employees worldwide was 10,077.
Our employees all benefit from extensive on the job training schemes and are highly incentivised to deliver % superior standards of work and customer service.
We have taken action Aviva plc 7.3 consistently through the year to maintain and develop arrangements aimed Barclays Bank plc 6.9 at involving employees in its affairs.
For example, monthly meetings are Legal and General plc 4.0 held at profit centres to discuss the previous months performance.
We Lloyds TSB Group plc 3.4 pride ourselves on many of our staff remaining with us throughout their UBS AG 3.1 careers, something which is increasingly uncommon in the commercial world.
A significant number of our most senior operational staff started out at entry level within our profit centres and their continuity of employment Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share capital and is testament to the Groups focus on employee development throughout in options over that share capital are given in the Directors Remuneration their careers.
We are committed to ensuring equal opportunities for all Report on pages 40 to 48.
Details of all shares subject to option are given our staff.
We make every reasonable effort to give disabled applicants, in the notes to the financial statements on page 74. and existing employees becoming disabled, opportunities for work, training and career development in keeping with their aptitudes and abilities.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INSURANCE Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 32 and 33.
Health and safety Each of the directors as at the date of approval of this report confirms, In all our markets we have extensive programmes to develop and maintain as required by section 234 of the Companies Act 1985 that to the best the highest standards of health and safety for both our employees and our of their knowledge and belief: customers.
A copy of the relevant formal statement of the Groups policy 1 there is no significant information known to the director relevant on health and safety is on display at profit centres in the UK and the US.
to the audit of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and We make a considerable annual investment in ensuring that our equipment 2 each director has taken reasonable steps to make himself aware of meets or exceeds the latest safety standards.
We also employ an internal such information and to establish that the Companys auditors are health and safety audit team to ensure that the correct health and safety aware of it.
precautions are in place throughout every aspect of our business.
Education is key to improving safety standards across the industries that we serve.
The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year to cover all The Group is at the forefront of the drive to promote higher standards and directors against liabilities in relation to the Company and its subsidiary educate our customers and employees about new and improved methods undertakings.
to ensure a safe operating environment.
qxd 11 7 07 11:56 am Page 35 35 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT Safeguarding the environment ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Group is committed to minimising any risk or negative impact our The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30 pm on Tuesday, business may have on the environment.
During the course of its business, 25 September 2007.
Notice of the meeting is set out in the document the Group impacts the environment principally through the disposal of accompanying this Report and Accounts.
In addition to the adoption of the waste oils, lubricants and through fuel emissions, as well as through the 2006 7 Report and Accounts, the declaration of a final dividend, resolutions disposal of efuent.
Across our territories, our operating philosophy involves dealing with the appointment and re-election of directors and the a commitment to: resolution dealing with the approval of the Directors Remuneration Report, reduce the quantity of waste we produce and to dispose of it correctly: there are four other matters which will be considered at the Annual General supply and run correctly maintained equipment to reduce both fuel and Meeting.
These relate to the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as noise pollution: auditors, the ability for the directors to unconditionally allot shares up to purchase and supply, where possible, equipment which is energy and approximately one-third of the Companys share capital, the disapplication noise efficient: of pre-emption rights in relation to the previous resolution and encourage the use of recycled materials where these are nancially viable empowering the Company to buy back up to 5% of its issued share capital.
including encouraging suppliers to improve the environmental standards These resolutions update for a further year similar resolutions approved by of their products: shareholders in previous years.
maximise transport efficiency for both environmental and commercial benefit: By order of the Board ensure that our fuel storage facilities, both xed and mobile, conform to relevant guidance to reduce the risk of contamination: establish optimal procedures to deal with oil or fuel spillage including notifying the relevant enforcing authority: and identify and correctly handle potentially hazardous waste material in accordance with the regulations in each of our territories.
ERIC WATKINS COMPANY SECRETARY We expect to report more fully on our environmental initiatives in next 25 June 2007 years Annual Report.
Customers and suppliers We set out to apply a Customer First culture and aim to build partnerships to enable our customers to do more, more effectively, over the long term.
We try to put our customers needs first in everything, from concept and planning through to delivery and post-contract, and offer a range of benets such as our pioneering extranet facility giving qualifying customers on-line real-time account tracking.
We have a national account management function in both the US and UK and offer preferred or sole supplier agreements, whereby customers can reduce their equipment supplier bases with bespoke arrangements that can provide significant savings in time and money as well as enhancing safety.
In addition, we invest heavily in new equipment, selecting only brand leaders as suppliers, building long-term relationships with them to ensure we offer the highest quality equipment.
Contributing to the community The Group recognises the importance of giving back to the communities where we do business.
We have a number of community programmes across both the US and the UK as well as individual initiatives at a number of our profit centres.
AUDITORS Deloitte & Touche LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in ofce and in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution concerning its re-appointment and authorising the directors to x its remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
