127 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Shareholder information U54670 pp124-131 5 3 08 23:59 Page 127 acquired, held or used for the purposes of such a permanent Dividends paid by Qualified Foreign Corporations QFCs are establishment.
subject to a maximum rate of income tax of 15 per cent.
This maximum rate applies to taxable years beginning before 1 January Inheritance tax 2009.
Both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited expect to be QFCs Under the UK Estate Tax Treaty, a US holder, who is domiciled in the throughout this period.
To qualify for the 15 per cent maximum US and is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK income tax rate on dividends the stock of the QFC must be held for inheritance tax upon the holders death or on a transfer during the more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning on the date holders lifetime unless the ADSs and shares form part of the business which is 60 days before the ex-dividend date.
property of a permanent establishment in the UK or pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK used in the performance of independent EXCHANGE CONTROLS personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs or shares are Rio Tinto plc subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US Federal gift or estate tax, There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other restrictions on the the UK Estate Tax Treaty generally provides for tax payments to be import or export of capital or on the payment of dividends to non relieved in accordance with the priority rules set out in the Treaty.
resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that affect the conduct of Rio Tinto plcs operations.
The Bank of England, however, administers Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax financial sanctions against specified targets related to certain regimes.
Transfers of Rio Tinto plc ADSs will not be subject to UK stamp duty There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs memorandum and provided that the transfer instrument is not executed in, and at all articles of association or under UK law that limit the right of non times remains outside, the UK.
resident owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plc shares.
Purchases of Rio Tinto plc shares are subject either to stamp duty at a rate of 50 pence per 100 or to stamp duty reserve tax Rio Tinto Limited SDRT at a rate of 0.5 per cent.
Conversions of Rio Tinto plc shares Under current Australian legislation, the Reserve Bank of Australia into Rio Tinto plc ADSs will be subject to additional SDRT at a rate of does not restrict the import and export of funds and no permission 1.5 per cent on all transfers to the Depositary or its nominee.
is required for the movement of funds into or out of Australia, except that restrictions apply to certain financial transactions relating to Australian taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited specified individuals and entities associated with certain regimes.
Taxation of dividends The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has responsibility US holders are not normally liable to Australian withholding tax on for the administration of restrictions relating to terrorists and their dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited because such dividends are sponsors, and the former Iraqi regime.
normally fully franked under the Australian dividend imputation Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct withholding tax system, meaning that they are paid out of income that has borne from foreign remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are Australian income tax.
Any unfranked dividends would suffer unfranked, and from payments of interest.
Australian withholding tax which under the Australian income tax There are no restrictions under the constitution of Rio Tinto convention is limited to 15 per cent of the gross dividend.
Limited that limit the right of non residents to hold or vote Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Capital gains However acquisitions of interests in shares in Australian US holders are not normally subject to any Australian tax on the companies by foreign interests are subject to review and approval by disposal of Rio Tinto Limited ADSs or shares unless they have been the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia under the Foreign used in carrying on a trade or business wholly or partly through a Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers Act.
The permanent establishment in Australia, or the gain is in the nature Takeovers Act applies to any acquisition of 15 per cent or more of of income sourced in Australia.
the outstanding shares of an Australian company or to any transaction that results in one non resident, or a group of associated Gift, estate and inheritance tax non residents, controlling 15 per cent or more of an Australian Australia does not impose any gift, estate or inheritance taxes in company.
The Takeovers Act also applies to any transaction which relation to gifts of shares or upon the death of a shareholder.
results in a group of non associated non residents controlling 40 per cent or more of an Australian company.
Persons who are proposing Stamp duty such acquisitions or transactions are required to notify the Treasurer An issue or transfer of Rio Tinto Limited shares does not require the of their intention.
The Treasurer has the power to order divestment payment of Australian stamp duty.
in cases where such acquisitions or transactions have already occurred.
The Takeovers Act does not affect the rights of owners US Federal income tax whose interests are held in compliance with the legislation.
United States Internal Revenue Service Circular 230 Notice To ensure compliance with Internal Revenue Service Circular 230, DUAL LISTED COMPANIES STRUCTURE holders are hereby notified that, any discussion of US federal tax In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed issues contained or referred to in this report or any document companies merger the DLC merger which was designed to place the referred to herein is not intended or written to be used, and cannot shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position be used by holders for the purpose of avoiding penalties that may as if they held shares in a single enterprise owning all of the assets be imposed on them under the United States Internal Revenue Code, of both Companies.
As a condition of its approval of the DLC merger, such discussion is written for use in connection with the matters the Australian Government required Rio Tinto plc to reduce its addressed herein, and holders should seek advice based on their shareholding in Rio Tinto Limited to 39 per cent by the end of 2005. particular circumstances from an independent tax adviser.
Consistent with the commitments made to the Australian Government in 1995, the Rio Tinto plc shareholding in Rio Tinto Dividends Limited has been reduced over time and it now stands at Dividends on the Groups ADSs and shares will generally be treated approximately 37.5 per cent.
as dividend income for purposes of US Federal income tax.
In the Following the approval of the DLC merger, both Companies case of Rio Tinto Limited shares, the income will be the net dividend entered into a DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing plus, in the event of a dividend being subject to withholding tax, the Agreement through which each Company agreed to ensure that the withholding tax.
businesses of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are managed on a Dividend income will not be eligible for the dividends received unified basis, to ensure that the boards of directors of each Company deduction allowed to US corporations.
is the same, and to give effect to certain arrangements designed to Shareholder information 128 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp124-131 5 3 08 23:59 Page 128 provide shareholders of each Company with a common economic The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of the interest in the combined enterprise.
public shareholders of each Company by treating the shares In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement issued by each Company as if they were separate classes of shares provided for the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution issued by a single company.
So decisions that do not affect the rights attached to each Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto shareholders of both Companies equally require the separate Limited share to be fixed in an Equalisation Ratio which has approval of the shareholders of both Companies.
Matters requiring remained unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing Agreement has provided for this approval procedure are referred to as Class Rights Actions and this ratio to be revised in special circumstances where, for example, are voted on a poll.
certain modifications are made to the share capital of one Company, Thus, the interests of the shareholders of each Company are such as rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and share protected against decisions which affect them and the shareholders consolidations, but not to the share capital of the other.
Outside in the other Company differently, by requiring their separate these specified circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can only be approval.
For example, fundamental elements of the DLC merger altered with the approval of shareholders under the Class Rights cannot be changed unless approved by shareholders under the Class Action approval procedure described under Voting rights.
In addition, Rights Action approval procedure.
any adjustments are required to be confirmed by the auditors.
Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject where legislation requires the separate approval of a decision by the to a wide range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple appropriate majority of shareholders in one Company and where jurisdictions.
Where these rules differ Rio Tinto, as a Group, aims to approval of the matter by shareholders of the other Company is comply with the strictest applicable level.
Consistent with the creation of a single combined enterprise Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint under the DLC merger, directors of each Company act in the best Decision or a Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
When matters may involve a power to change that categorisation.
If a matter falls within both conflict of interests between the shareholders of each Company they categories, it is treated as a Class Rights Action.
In addition, the must be approved under the Class Rights Action approval procedure.
directors can determine that matters not expressly listed in either To ensure that the boards of both Companies are identical, category should be put to shareholders for their approval under resolutions to appoint or remove directors must be put to either procedure.
shareholders of both as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions as To facilitate the joint voting arrangements each Company has described under Voting rights, and it is a requirement that a person entered into shareholder voting agreements.
Each Company has can only be a director of one Company if that person is also a issued a Special Voting Share to a special purpose company held in director of the other Company.
So, for example, if a person was trust by a common Trustee.
removed as a director of Rio Tinto plc, he or she would also cease to Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share RTP Special be a director of Rio Tinto Limited.
Voting Share to RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued its Special Voting Share RTL Special Voting Share to RTP Dividend rights Shareholder SVC.
The total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc by the public shareholders of one Company are voted at the parallel and Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, meeting of the other Company.
The role of these special purpose that is without taking into account any associated tax credits.
companies in achieving this is described below.
Dividends are determined in US dollars and are then, except for ADR In exceptional circumstances, certain public shareholders of the holders, translated and paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
The Companies can be excluded from voting at the respective Companys Companies are also required to announce and pay their dividends general meetings because they have acquired shares in one and other distributions as close in time to each other as possible.
Company in excess of a given threshold without making an offer for In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient all the shares in the other Company.
If this should occur, the votes distributable reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised cast by these excluded shareholders will be disregarded.
capital distribution, it would be entitled to receive a top up payment Following the Companies general meetings the overall results of from the other Company.
The top up payment could be made as a the voting on Joint Decisions and the results of voting on separate dividend on the DLC Dividend Share, or by way of a contractual decisions will be announced to the stock exchanges, published on payment.
the Rio Tinto website and advertised in the Financial Times and The If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the Australian newspapers.
The results of the 2008 annual general law applicable to one of the Companies, then they may depart from meetings may also be obtained on the appropriate shareholder the Equalisation Ratio.
However, should such a departure occur, helpline Rio Tinto plc: Freephone 0800 435021: and Rio Tinto then the relevant Company will put aside reserves to be held for Limited: toll free 1800 813 292. payment on the relevant shares at a later date.
Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the Rio Tinto plc dividend equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision The DLC Dividend Share can also be utilised to provide the will be considered, each Rio Tinto plc share will carry one vote and Group with flexibility for internal funds management by allowing the holder of its Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote dividends to be paid between the two parts of the Group.
Such cast by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited.
The holder of dividend payments are of no economic significance to the the Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly and only in shareholders of either Company, as they will have no effect on the accordance with the votes cast by public shareholders for and Groups overall resources.
against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting.
Voting rights The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the public hold any voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint Rio Tinto Limited and cannot enforce the voting arrangements electorate on all matters which affect shareholders of both relating to the Special Voting Share.
These are referred to as Joint Decisions.
Such Joint Decisions include the creation of new classes of share Rio Tinto Limited capital, the appointment or removal of directors and auditors and At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at which a Joint the receiving of annual financial statements.
Joint Decisions are Decision will be considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share will carry voted on a poll.
one vote and, together with the Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares
