Of these holders, 265 had registered addresses Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Of these holders, 265 had registered in the US and held a total of 161,062 Rio Tinto plc shares, addresses in the US, representing approximately 0.072 per cent of representing 0.015 per cent of the total number of Rio Tinto plc the total number of Rio Tinto Limited shares issued and outstanding shares issued and outstanding as at such date.
In addition, as of such date.
In addition, nominee accounts of record with 94,920,868 million Rio Tinto plc shares were registered in the name registered addresses other than in the US may hold Rio Tinto Limited of a custodian account in London which represented 8.855 per cent shares, in whole or in part, beneficially for US persons.
of the publicly held Rio Tinto plc shares issued and outstanding.
These shares were represented by 23.73 million Rio Tinto plc ADSs ADR holders held of record by 379 ADR holders.
In addition, certain accounts of ADR holders may instruct JPMorgan as to how the shares record with registered addresses other than in the US hold shares, in represented by their ADRs should be voted.
whole or in part, beneficially for US persons.
Registered holders of ADRs will have the Annual report and Summary financial statements and interim reports mailed to them at Rio Tinto Limited their record address.
ADR holders will receive the Annual report and Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities Summary financial statements and interim reports on request.
Exchange ASX and the New Zealand Securities Exchange.
The ASX Rio Tinto is subject to the US Securities and Exchange is the principal trading market for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
The ASX Commission SEC reporting requirements for foreign companies.
is a national stock exchange operating in the capital city of each A Form 20-F, which corresponds with the Form 10-K in US public Australian State with an automated trading system.
Although not companies, will be filed with the SEC.
Rio Tintos Form 20-F and listed, Rio Tinto Limited shares are also traded in London.
other filings can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website as well as the Closing ASX share prices are published in most Australian SEC web site at www.
gov newspapers and are also available during the day on the Rio Tinto and other websites.
Investment warning Rio Tinto Limited had an ADR facility with JPMorgan Chase Past performance of shares is not necessarily a guide to future Bank NA under a Deposit Agreement, dated 6 June 1989, as performance.
The value of shares and investments and the income amended on 1 August 1989, as further amended and restated on derived from them can go down as well as up, and investors may not 2 June 1992 and as further amended and restated on 7 July 2005 get back the amount they invested.
when JPMorgan became Rio Tinto Limiteds depository.
Rio Tinto Limited had established a separate ADR programme TAXATION before the DLC merger in 1995 but the Group did not believe that UK resident individuals shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc there was any benefit in continuing to maintain two separate ADR Taxation of dividends programmes and in 2006 decided that, due to the relative size of Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the dividend.
the Rio Tinto Limited ADR programme, it should be terminated.
Individuals who are not liable to income tax at the higher rate will In February 2006 formal notice of termination of the Deposit have no further tax to pay.
Higher rate tax payers are liable to tax Agreement was given to JPMorgan and it was terminated on 10 April on UK dividends at 32.5 per cent which, after taking account of the 2006, immediately after the payment of the final dividend to the tax credit, produces a further tax liability of 25 per cent of the ADR holders.
Any questions concerning holdings of Rio Tinto dividend received.
Limited ADRs should be directed to the JPMorgan Service Center on 001 800 990 1135. Dividend reinvestment plan DRP The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high The taxation effect of participation in the DRP will depend on and low closing sale prices of Rio Tinto Limited shares based upon individual circumstances.
Shareholders will generally be liable for information provided by the ASX.
There is no established trading tax on dividends reinvested in the DRP on the same basis as if they market in the US for Rio Tinto Limiteds shares.
had received the cash and arranged the investment.
The dividend should, therefore, be included in the annual tax return in the normal way.
Shareholder information 126 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp124-131 5 3 08 23:59 Page 126 The shares acquired should be added to shareholdings at the on disposal are greater than the cost base of shares.
A capital loss date and at the net cost shown on the share purchase advice.
The arises when the proceeds on sale are less than the cost base or actual cost of the shares, for Rio Tinto plc shareholders including the reduced cost base.
Where a capital gain arises on shares held for at stamp duty stamp duty reserve tax, will form the base cost for least 12 months, individual, trust and superannuation fund capital gains tax purposes.
shareholders may be eligible for a capital gains tax discount.
Shareholders are advised to seek the advice of an independent Capital gains tax taxation consultant on any possible capital gains tax exposure.
Shareholders who have any queries on capital gains tax issues are advised to consult their financial adviser.
US resident individuals Details of relevant events since 31 March 1982 and adjusted The following is a summary of the principal UK tax, Australian tax values for Rio Tinto plc securities as at that date are available from and US Federal income tax consequences of the ownership of the company secretary.
Rio Tinto plc ADSs, Rio Tinto plc shares and Rio Tinto Limited shares the Groups ADSs and shares by a US holder as defined below.
It is Australian resident individuals shareholdings in not intended to be a comprehensive description of all the tax Rio Tinto Limited considerations that are relevant to all classes of taxpayer.
Future Taxation of dividends changes in legislation may affect the tax consequences of the The basis of the Australian dividend imputation system is that when ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
Australian resident shareholders receive dividends from Rio Tinto It is based in part on representations by the Groups depositary Limited, they may be entitled to a credit for the Australian tax paid bank as Depositary for the ADRs evidencing the ADSs and assumes by the Group in respect of that income, depending on the tax status that each obligation in the deposit agreements will be performed in of the shareholder.
The application of the system results in the Australian tax paid You are a US holder if you are a beneficial owner of the Groups by the Group being allocated to shareholders by way of franking ADSs and shares and you are: a citizen or resident of the United credits attaching to the dividends they receive.
Such dividends are States, a domestic corporation, an estate whose income is subject to known as franked dividends.
A dividend may be partly or fully United States federal income tax regardless of its source, or a trust if franked.
The current Rio Tinto Limited dividend is fully franked and a United States court can exercise primary supervision over the the franking credits attached to the dividend are shown in the trusts administration and one or more United States persons are distribution statement provided to shareholders.
authorized to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
The extent to which a company can frank a dividend depends on This section applies to US holders only if shares or ADSs are held the credit balance in its franking account.
Credits to this account as capital assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to can arise in a number of ways, including when a company pays shareholders who are members of a special class of holders subject company tax or receives a franked dividend from another company.
to special rules, including a dealer in securities, a trader in securities The dividend is required to be included in a resident individual who elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for shareholders assessable income.
In addition, an amount equal to securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, a life insurance the franking credit attached to the franked dividend is also included company, a person liable for alternative minimum tax, a person that in the assessable income of the resident individual, who may then actually or constructively owns ten per cent or more of Rio Tintos be entitled to a rebate of tax equal to the franking credit amount voting stock, a person that holds shares or ADSs as part of a straddle included in their income.
Should the franking credits exceed the tax or a hedging or conversion transaction, or a US holder whose due, the excess is refunded to the resident individual.
functional currency is not the US dollar.
The effect of the dividend imputation system on non resident This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as shareholders is that, to the extent that the dividend is franked, no amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, Australian tax will be payable and there is an exemption from published rulings and court decisions, and on the convention dividend withholding tax.
between the United States of America and United Kingdom, and the A withholding tax is normally levied at the rate of 15 per cent convention between the United States of America and Australia when unfranked dividends are paid to residents of countries with which may affect the tax consequences of the ownership of the which Australia has a taxation treaty.
Most Western countries have a Groups ADSs and shares.
These laws and conventions are subject to taxation treaty with Australia.
A rate of 30 per cent applies to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
countries where there is no taxation treaty.
US holders should consult their own tax adviser regarding the Since 1988, all dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited have been United States federal, state and local and foreign and other tax fully franked.
It is the Groups policy to pay fully franked dividends consequences of owning and disposing of shares and ADSs in their whenever possible.
For the purposes of the Conventions and of the US Internal Dividend reinvestment plan DRP Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Code US holders of ADSs Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested are treated as the owners of the underlying shares.
in the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash and The summary describes the treatment applicable under the arranged the investment.
The dividend should therefore be included Conventions in force at the date of this report.
in the annual tax return as assessable income.
The shares acquired should be added to the shareholding at the UK taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc date of acquisition at the actual cost of the shares, which is the Taxation of dividends amount of the dividend applied by the shareholder to acquire shares US holders do not suffer deductions of UK withholding tax on and any incidental costs associated with the acquisition, including dividends paid by Rio Tinto plc.
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to stamp duty, will form part of the cost base or reduced cost base of one ninth of the net dividend, or ten per cent of the net dividend the shares for capital gains tax purposes.
The tax credit is not repayable to US holders.
Capital gains tax Capital gains The Australian capital gains tax legislation is complex.
If A US holder will not normally be liable to UK tax on capital gains shareholders have acquired shares after 19 September 1985 they realised on the disposition of Rio Tinto plc ADSs or shares unless the may be subject to capital gains tax on the disposal of those shares.
holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a Generally, disposal of shares held on capital account would give permanent establishment in the UK and the ADSs or shares have rise to a capital gain or loss.
A capital gain arises when the proceeds been used for the purposes of the trade, profession or vocation or are
