Rio Tinto 12 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp12-18 6 3 08 00:00 Page 12 Rio Tinto Rio Tinto is a leading international mining group whose business is groups and geographical areas are shown in notes 31 and 32 to the finding, mining and processing the Earths mineral resources.
In the Operating and financial report Groups interests are diverse both in geography and product.
Our OFR, operating assets and sales revenue for 2006 and 2007 are activities span the world but we are strongly represented in Australia consistent with the financial information by business unit in the and North America and we have significant businesses in South 2007 Full financial statements.
America, Asia, Europe and southern Africa.
Businesses include open The tables on pages 62 to 73 show production for 2005, 2006 pit and underground mines, mills, refineries and smelters as well as and 2007 and include estimates of proved and probable ore reserves a number of research and service facilities.
Words and phrases, often technical, have The Group combines Rio Tinto plc, which is listed on the London been used which have particular meanings: definitions of these Stock Exchange, and headquartered in London, and Rio Tinto terms are in the Glossary on pages 132 to 134.
The weights and Limited, which is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange and measures used are mainly metric units: conversions into other units has executive offices in Melbourne.
The Group consists of wholly are shown on page 135. and partly owned subsidiaries, jointly controlled assets, jointly controlled entities and associated companies, the principal ones History being listed in notes 37 to 40 of the 2007 Full financial statements.
Rio Tintos predecessor companies were formed in 1873 and 1905.
On 31 December 2007, Rio Tinto plc had a market capitalisation The Rio Tinto Company was formed by investors in 1873 to mine of 53.0 billion US$105.9 billion and Rio Tinto Limited had a ancient copper workings at Rio Tinto, near Seville in southern Spain.
market capitalisation of A$38.3 billion US$33.5 billion.
The The Consolidated Zinc Corporation was incorporated in 1905 to combined Groups market capitalisation in publicly held shares at treat zinc bearing mine waste at Broken Hill, New South Wales, the end of 2007 was US$139.4 billion.
The RTZ Corporation formerly The Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation Objective, strategy and management structure was formed in 1962 by the merger of The Rio Tinto Company and Our fundamental objective is to maximise the overall long term The Consolidated Zinc Corporation.
value and return to our shareholders.
We do this by operating CRA Limited formerly Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited responsibly and sustainably in areas of proven expertise such as was formed at the same time by a merger of the Australian interests exploration, project evaluation, mining, smelting and refining where of The Consolidated Zinc Corporation and The Rio Tinto Company.
the Group has a competitive advantage.
Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered Our strategy is to maximise net present value by investing in important mineral deposits, developed major mining projects and large, long life, cost competitive mines and processing plants.
Investments are driven by the quality of each opportunity, not by the RTZ and CRA were unified in 1995 through a dual listed choice of commodity.
This means the Group, with its common board Rio Tintos management structure is designed to facilitate a clear of directors, is designed to place the shareholders of both Companies focus on the Groups objective.
This structure, reflected in this in substantially the same position as if they held shares in a single report, is based on the following principal product and global enterprise owning all of the assets of both Companies.
support groups: In 1997, The RTZ Corporation became Rio Tinto plc and CRA Limited became Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the Rio Tinto Aluminium Group.
Over the past decade, the Group has continued to invest in Copper developments and acquisitions in keeping with its strategy.
Diamonds and Industrial Minerals In 2007, Rio Tinto completed an agreed takeover of the Energy Canadian aluminium producer Alcan Inc. in a US$38 billion Iron Ore transaction that transforms the Groups aluminium product group Exploration into a global leader in aluminium.
Technology and Innovation Business Resources Contact details Rio Tintos contact details are shown on page 136 of this report and The chief executive of each product group reports to the chief for purposes of service, its agent in the US is Shannon Crompton, executive of Rio Tinto.
Diamonds and Industrial Minerals report to secretary of Rio Tintos US holding companies, who may be the product group heads of Copper and Energy respectively.
contacted at Rio Tinto Services Inc. 80 State Street, Albany, New York, 12207-2543.
Nomenclature and financial data Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc operate as one business organisation, referred to in this report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, the Group.
These collective expressions are used for convenience only, since both Companies, and the individual companies in which they directly or indirectly own investments, are separate and distinct legal entities.
Limited, plc, Pty, Inc, Limitada, or SA have generally been omitted from Group company names, except to distinguish between Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial data in United States dollars US$ is derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, the 2007 Full financial statements which are in US$.
In general, financial data in pounds sterling and Australian dollars A$ have been translated from the consolidated financial statements and have been provided solely for convenience: exceptions arise where data, such as directors remuneration, can be extracted directly from source records.
Certain key information has been provided in all three currencies in the 2007 Full financial statements.
Rio Tinto Group sales revenue, profit before tax and net earnings and operating assets for 2006 and 2007 attributable to the product
