99 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Directors report U54670 pp99-102 5 3 08 23:54 Page 99 Directors report The directors are pleased to present their report to shareholders of obligations.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, together with the Full financial ordinary shares in Rio Tinto plc save for: statements for the year ended 31 December 2007. restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, those relating to market abuse and Dual listed structure insider dealing : An explanation of the dual listed companies structure DLC, which restrictions that may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules of unified Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited in 1995, can be found on the UK Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of page 127.
This section also provides a description of voting rights the Group require approval to deal in shares: restrictions which may apply in respect of the shares of either restrictions on the transfer of shares that maybe imposed under Company under specified circumstances.
Rio Tinto plcs articles of association or under Part 22 of the UK Companies Act 2006, in either case following a failure to supply Memorandum and articles of association information required to be disclosed following service of a request Rio Tinto plcs articles of association were adopted by special under section 793 of the UK Companies Act 2006: and resolution passed on 11 April 2002 and amended by special restrictions on transfer of shares held under certain of the resolutions passed on 14 April 2005 and 13 April 2007.
Rio Tinto Rio Tinto plcs employee share plans while they remain subject Limiteds constitution was adopted by special resolution passed on to the plan.
24 May 2000 and amended by special resolutions passed on 18 April 2002, 29 April 2005 and 27 April 2007.
Details of substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited can be found on page 131.
Activities and business review On 2 February 2006 the Group announced, subject to market Details of the Groups results, operations and principal activities, conditions, an intention to return a total of up to US$4,000 million likely future developments, significant changes during the year and of capital to shareholders during the course of 2006 and 2007, post balance sheet events are set out in the Chairmans statement on comprising a special dividend of US$1,500 million, and a share pages 4 and 5, the Interview with the chief executive on pages 6 to 8 buyback programme of US$2,500 million.
and in the Operating and financial review on pages 13 to 82.
On 27 October 2006 the Group announced, subject to market During 2007 and until 22 February 2008 the significant changes conditions, a US$3,000 million increase in the programme to and events affecting the Group have been: US$7,000 million which would be returned to shareholders by the The retirement of the chief executive, Leigh Clifford, in April and end of 2007. the appointment of his successor, Tom Albanese.
At the annual general meetings held during April 2007 the The acquisition of Alcan Inc in October and the subsequent shareholders: commencement of integration.
renewed the general authority to buy back up to 101.7 million of Announcements of major expansion plans in iron ore and Rio Tinto plcs ordinary shares, representing approximately ten uranium.
per cent of its issued share capital for a further 12 month period: US$15 billion divestment programme announced in November approved buy backs by Rio Tinto Limited under off-market with US$10 billion targeted for 2008. buyback tenders and or on-market over the 12 months following In November an approach by BHP Billiton proposing a approval, provided that the number bought back did not exceed combination of companies and a subsequent pre-conditional 28.5 million shares: and takeover offer in February, both of which were rejected by the renewed the shareholder authorities to buy back up to all the board of Rio Tinto.
Rio Tinto Limited shares held indirectly by Rio Tinto plc.
As permitted by sections 299 3 and 299A 3 of the Australian Shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities at the 2008 Corporations Act 2001, information which is likely to result in annual general meetings.
unreasonable prejudice, regarding likely future developments in, During 2007 Rio Tinto plc bought back 27,700,000 ordinary and the expected results of the operations of the Group or its shares under the buyback programme, representing approximately strategies and prospects, has been omitted.
2.8 per cent of its issued share capital, on the open market for The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are described US$1,562 million.
All were held as treasury shares.
Following the under Risk factors on page 10. announcement on 12 July 2007 of the Groups recommended all cash offer for the acquisition of Alcan Inc, the buyback programme Share capital, buybacks and options was discontinued.
Details of the Groups issued share capital as at 31 December 2007 can be found at notes 28 and 29 to the financial statements.
Details During 2007, to satisfy obligations under employee share plans, of the rights and obligations attached to each class of shares can be Rio Tinto plc issued 311,458 ordinary shares and reissued 969,435 found on page 128 under the heading Dual Listed Companies ordinary shares from treasury, and Rio Tinto Limited purchased on Structure Voting rights.
Details of certain agreements triggered on a change of control Also during the year, the Companies registrars purchased on can be found on page 127 under the heading Dual Listed market 451,867 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 760,057 Rio Tinto Companies Structure.
Limited shares to satisfy obligations to shareholders under the Details of certain restrictions on holding shares in Rio Tinto plc dividend reinvestment plans.
Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each: Rio Tinto Limited shares.
The share buy back programme was discontinued on 12 July 2007 on the 2.
The average prices paid have been translated into US dollars at the exchange announcement of Rio Tintos recommended all cash offer to acquire all of the rate on the day of settlement.
outstanding common shares in Alcan Inc. 3.
Shares purchased by the Companies registrars in connection with the dividend reinvestment plans and employee share plans were not deemed to form part of any publicly announced plan or programme.
No further shares were bought back between 1 January 2008 and 22 effect from 1 May 2007.
Leigh Clifford retired as a director on February 2008.
During this period, Rio Tinto plc issued 70,244 30 April 2007. shares in connection with employee share plans, and reissued Dick Evans, as an executive director, and Yves Fortier and Paul 385,692 ordinary shares from treasury and Rio Tinto Limiteds Tellier, as non executive directors, were appointed on 25 October registrars purchased on market and delivered 783,209 shares.
2007, retire and offer themselves for election at the 2008 annual Awards over 2,195,740 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and general meetings.
Ashton Calvert resigned with effect from 1,932,977 Rio Tinto Limited shares were granted in connection with 7 November 2007 and Tom Albanese, Vivienne Cox, Richard employee share plans during 2007, and as at 22 February 2008 there Goodmanson and Paul Skinner retire by rotation and, being eligible, were options outstanding over 6,051,292 Rio Tinto plc ordinary offer themselves for re-election.
Sir Richard Sykes will also retire at shares and 5,590,662 Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Upon exercise, the conclusion of the 2008 annual general meetings.
Details of options may be satisfied by the issue of new shares, the purchase directors service contracts and letters of appointment can be found of shares on market, or, in the case of Rio Tinto plc, from treasury on pages 107 and 110 respectively.
A table of directors attendance at board and committee There were no changes to the authorised capital of Rio Tinto plc meetings is on page 120. during the year.
Remuneration of directors and executives Dividends A discussion of the Groups policy for determining the nature and Final dividends of 43.13 pence or 93.02 Australian cents per share amount of remuneration of directors and senior executives, and of will be paid on 11 April 2008.
Full details of dividends paid and the the relationship between that policy and the Groups performance, dividend policy can be found on page 124. appears in the Remuneration report on pages 103 to 106.
The Remuneration report forms part of the Directors report and includes Annual general meetings details of the nature and amount of each element of the The 2008 annual general meetings will be held on 17 April in remuneration including options of each of the directors and of each London and on 24 April in Brisbane.
Notices of the 2008 annual the key management personnel and highest paid executives below general meetings are set out in separate letters to the shareholders of board level in respect of whom disclosures are required in 2007. each Company.
Secretaries Directors Details of the company secretary of each of Rio Tinto plc and The names of the directors who served during the year, together Rio Tinto Limited together with their qualifications and experience with their biographical details, directorships of other companies in are set out on page 98. the past three years and the period of each directorship are shown on pages 95 to 97.
Indemnities and insurance In December 2006 the board announced that Tom Albanese The articles of association and constitution of the Companies would succeed Leigh Clifford as chief executive of Rio Tinto with require them to indemnify officers of the Companies, including 101 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Directors report U54670 pp99-102 5 3 08 23:54 Page 101 officers of wholly owned subsidiaries, against liabilities arising from Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Political Parties, Elections the conduct of the Groups business, to the extent permitted by law.
In the case of Rio Tinto plc this is reflected by Deeds of Indemnity provided to the directors.
Governmental regulations The Group has therefore purchased directors and officers Rio Tinto is subject to extensive governmental regulations affecting insurance during the year.
In broad terms, the insurance indemnifies all aspects of its operations and consistently seeks to apply best individual directors and officers personal legal liability and costs for practice in all of its activities.
Due to Rio Tintos product and claims arising out of actions taken in connection with Group geographical spread, there is unlikely to be any single governmental business.
It is a condition of the insurance policy that detailed terms regulation that could have a material effect on the Groups business.
and premiums paid cannot be disclosed.
Rio Tintos operations in Australia, New Zealand, and Indonesia are subject to state, provincial and federal regulations of general Employment policies and communication application governing mining and processing, land tenure and use, The average number of people employed during the year by Rio Tinto, environmental requirements, including site specific environmental including the Groups proportionate share of consolidated companies licences, permits and statutory authorisations, workplace health and and equity accounted units, was approximately 52,000 2006: safety, trade and export, corporations, competition, access to 35,000.
Of these, about 16,000 were located in Australia and New infrastructure, foreign investment and taxation.
Some operations are Zealand, around 14,000 in the US and Canada and 5,000 in Europe.
conducted under specific agreements with the respective Alcans employees were prorated from 24 October 2007. governments and associated acts of parliament.
In addition, Rio Rio Tintos employment policies are set out in its statement of Tintos uranium operations in the Northern Territory, Australia and business practice, The way we work.
Namibia are subject to specific regulation in relation to mining and Rio Tinto is committed to equality of opportunity for all, as set the export of uranium.
out in The way we work, and applies this philosophy to recruitment, US and Canada based operations are subject to local, state, development and promotion of individuals.
Within this philosophy, provincial and national regulations governing land tenure and use, each operating company is further encouraged to develop its own environmental aspects of operations, product and workplace health policies and practices to suit individual circumstances.
Group and safety, trade and export administration, corporations, companies employ disabled people and accept the need to maintain competition, securities and taxation.
In relation to hydro-electric and develop careers for them.
If an employee becomes disabled and, power generation in Canada, water rentals and royalties, as well as as a result, is unable to perform his or her current duties, every effort surplus power sales, are regulated by the Quebec and British is made to offer suitable alternative employment and to assist with Columbia provincial governments.
The South African Mineral and Petroleum Resources Rio Tinto respects the right of employees worldwide to choose Development Act 2002, as read with the Empowerment Charter for whether or not they wish to be represented collectively.
the South African Mining Industry, targets the transfer for fair value Group companies actively promote a healthy and safe working of 26 per cent ownership of existing South African mining assets to environment through training and communication with employees.
historically disadvantaged South Africans HDSAs within ten years.
For further information about Group staff and health and safety Attached to the Empowerment Charter is a scorecard by which initiatives, please see pages 88 to 89. companies will be judged on their progress towards empowerment Post retirement benefits are provided by Rio Tinto and its major and the attainment of the target transfer of 26 per cent ownership.
subsidiaries in accordance with local conditions and good practice in The scorecard also provides that in relation to existing mining the countries concerned.
assets, 15 per cent ownership should vest in HDSAs within five years The Group provides clear and timely communication with its of 1 May 2004.
Rio Tinto anticipates that the government of South employees concerning business performance and corporate Africa will continue working towards the introduction of new royalty developments.
It endeavours to maintain effective channels of payments in respect of mining tenements, expected to become communication through an internal communications team, which effective during 2009. manages the release of information to employees across the Groups businesses.
Information is released through a number of forums Environmental regulation including electronic and paper newsletters and bulletins, video and Rio Tinto measures its performance against environmental the Groups intranet.
Individual operations also invite employees to regulation referred to in the previous section by rating incidents on briefings outlining business performance including results, health, a low, moderate, high, or critical scale of likelihood and consequence safety and environmental matters.
High and critical ratings are reported Rio Tinto operates worldwide share plans which, taking account to the Executive committee and the board Committee on social and of local country tax and securities regulation, aim to facilitate environmental accountability, including progress with remedial employee shareholding.
The directors believe that this is a good way actions.
Prosecutions and other breaches are also used to gauge Rio for employees to participate in the success of the Group.
In 2007, there were nine high or critical environment incidents Corporate governance compared with eight in 2006.
These incidents were of a nature to A full report on corporate governance can be found on pages 118 impact the environment or may have concerned local communities.
Of these two impacted air quality, five resulted from water discharge and two were spills.
Examples of these include: Donations Air emission concentrations of fluorine exceeded license During 2007, the Group spent US$107 million on community conditions at Boyne smelters, Australia.
assistance programmes and payments into benefit receiving trusts Unauthorised discharge of mine water downstream of a dam as a set up in directly negotiated community impact benefit agreements.
result of poor communications with a contractor at Kestrel, Total community spending in Australia amounted to A$87.7 million Australia.
Donations in the UK during 2007 amounted Sewage discharged into a holding pond following a blockage in to 1.8 million 2006: 2.5 million of which 0.2 million 2006: pumps at Weipa, Australia.
0.5 million was for charitable purposes as defined by the Sea water used in cooling was discharged to the ocean at a higher Companies Act 1985 and 1.6 million 2006: 2.0 million for other temperature and pH than limits imposed by the license at community purposes.
As in previous years, no donations were made for political Minor land clearing inside an area identified as having heritage purposes in the EU, Australia or elsewhere, as defined by the UK value at Hope Downs, Australia.
Directors report 102 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp99-102 5 3 08 23:54 Page 102 Diesel leak from below the floor of a bulk storage tank at West Rio Tinto has adopted policies designed to uphold the Angelas, Australia.
independence of the Groups principal auditors by prohibiting their During 2007 three operations incurred fines amounting to A$9,633 engagement to provide a range of accounting and other professional A$56,779 in 2006. services that might compromise their appointment as independent Further information in respect of the Groups environmental auditors.
The engagement of the Groups principal auditors to performance is included throughout this annual report, in the provide statutory audit services, other services pursuant to Sustainable development review on page 85 and on the website.
legislation, taxation services and certain other services are pre approved.
Any engagement of the Groups principal auditors to Legal proceedings provide other permitted services is subject to the specific approval of Neither Rio Tinto plc nor Rio Tinto Limited nor any of their the Audit committee or its chairman.
subsidiaries is a defendant in any proceedings which the directors Prior to the commencement of each financial year the Groups believe will have a material effect on either Companys financial finance director and its principal auditors submit to the Audit position or profitability.
committee a schedule of the types of services that are expected to be Contingencies are disclosed in note 35 to the 2007 Full financial performed during the following year for its approval.
committee may impose a US dollar limit on the total value of other permitted services that can be provided.
Any non audit service Exploration, research and development provided by the Groups principal auditors, where the expected fee The Group carries out exploration, research and development in exceeds a pre determined level, must be subject to the Groups support of its activities as described more fully under Exploration, normal tender procedures.
and Technology and Innovation on pages 48 to 51.
Notwithstanding In exceptional circumstances the finance director is authorised significant increases in cash expenditure, the amounts charged for to engage the Groups principal auditors to provide such services the year for exploration and evaluation were US$321 million without going to tender, but if the fees are expected to exceed 2006: US$237 million and for research and development were US$250,000 then the chairman of the Audit committee must approve US$69 million 2006: US$15 million.
The Audit committee adopted policies for the pre approval of Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors permitted services provided by the Groups principal auditors during  LLP and  are the 2003.
All of the engagements for services provided by the Groups auditors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited respectively.
principal auditors since the adoption of these policies were either  LLP have indicated their willingness to within the pre approval policies or approved by the Audit committee.
continue in office as auditors of Rio Tinto plc and a resolution to The directors are satisfied that the provision of non audit services by reappoint them as auditors of Rio Tinto plc will be proposed at the  in accordance with this procedure is 2008 annual general meetings of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors Limited.
 will continue in office as auditors imposed by relevant regulations, including the Australian of Rio Tinto Limited.
 as the auditors of Rio Tinto Limited are required to provide an Auditors Independence declaration to the Financial instruments directors under Section 307C of the Australian Corporations Act Details of the Groups financial risk management objectives and 2001.
A copy is set out in the 2007 Full financial Statements.
policies and exposure to risk are described in the Financial review on No person who was an officer of Rio Tinto during the year was a page 52. former partner or director of either Companys auditors.
Each of the directors at the time this report was approved has Value of land confirmed that: Most of the Groups interests in mining properties and leases, and in so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information other land and buildings have been included in the financial ie information needed by the Companies auditors in connection statements at cost in accordance with its accounting policies.
It is with preparing their report of which the auditors are unaware: not possible to estimate the market value of such interests in land as and this will depend on product prices over the long term which will vary he or she has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a with market conditions.
director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of Creditor payments that information.
It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payments with suppliers when entering into contracts and to meet its obligations accordingly.
Principal auditor - audit and non audit fees and services The Group does not follow any specific published code or standard The amounts payable to the Groups principal auditors, on payment practice.
, were: At 31 December 2007, there were 28 days 2006: 29 days 2007 2006 purchases outstanding in respect of the Group based on the total US$m US$m invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Audit fees a 30.7 10.8 Fees for other services supplied pursuant to legislation 2.4 The Directors report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Tax fees 0.8 0.8 board.
All other fees b 10.2 1.0 41.7 15.0 a Audit fees include the full cost of the 2007 audit of Alcan Inc. and its subsidiaries amounting to US$18.8 million.
b All other fees include those relating to the acquisition of Alcan Inc. and the Groups divestment programme.
Further information on audit and non audit fees is set out in note 44 to the 2007 Full financial statements.
