Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 48 Governance Financial statements Report of the directors The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Rolls-Royce Authority to purchase own shares Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for At the AGM in 2007, the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase up to the year ended December 31, 2007.
180,448,489 of its own ordinary shares representing ten per cent of its issued ordinary share capital as at February 7, 2007.
The Company did not make use of this authority Business review during 2007.
A review of the business can be found on pages 4 to 45.
The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the conclusion of the AGM in 2008 and a resolution to renew it will be proposed at that Corporate governance meeting.
The directorsreport on corporate governance and the  report are on pages 51 to 54 and 55 to 64 respectively.
Adoption of new Articles of Association Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders, B Shares including where applicable with written consent of the Special Shareholder, in At the Annual General Meeting AGM on May 7, 2008, the directors will recommend accordance with the legislation from time to time.
A special resolution will be an issue of 89.6 B Shares with a total nominal value of 8.96p for each ordinary share.
proposed at the AGM, to adopt new Articles of Association in order to incorporate a Together with the interim issue on January 2, 2008 of 40.4 B Shares for each ordinary number of changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006. share with a total nominal value of 4.04p, this is the equivalent of a total annual payment to ordinary shareholders of 13p for each ordinary share.
Auditors As a result of the strategic financial review referred to on page 42 the directors A resolution to reappoint the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and to authorise the directors have concluded that the dilution caused by the conversion of B Shares to ordinary to determine their remuneration, will also be proposed at the AGM.
shares is inconsistent with the Groups strategy.
Consequently, it is intended to create a new class of share to be titledC Shares.
The directors propose that the 2007 final Directors payment to shareholders be made by a further issue of B Shares using the current The  details, including their other significant commitments, B Share process.
Subsequently the directors intend that future shareholder payments, are set out on page 46.
During the year there were a number of Board changes: commencing with the 2008 interim payment to shareholders, will be by the issue of Professor Peter Gregson and John Rishton were appointed non-executive directors C Shares.
on March 1, 2007: Sir John Taylor retired as a non-executive director on May 1, 2007.
The principal difference between the existing B Shares and the proposed On September 1, 2007 Helen Alexander was appointed as a non-executive director C Shares is that the C Shares will not carry an option to convert into ordinary shares.
and Mike Terrett was appointed as an executive director.
On September 13, 2007 The Company plans to make arrangements with its Registrar to enable shareholders Iain Conn succeeded Peter Byrom as the Companys Senior Independent Director to reinvest their payments in a market purchase of ordinary shares.
For those and John Rishton succeeded Peter Byrom as chairman of the audit committee.
shareholders who retain their C Shares, a C Share dividend at a rate of 75 per cent of John Cheffins retired as an executive director on September 30, 2007.
Carl Symon will the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate LIBOR will be payable half yearly in arrears.
retire as a non-executive director at the conclusion of the AGM.
He will be succeeded Further details of this proposal and a resolution seeking shareholder approval as chairman of the remuneration committee by Helen Alexander.
will be included in the Notice for the forthcoming AGM.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the directors are Subject to shareholder approval, following the 2007 final shareholder payment subject to re-election every year, with each director also being subject to re-election and prior to the issue of C Shares in respect of the interim shareholder payment, the at intervals of not more than three years.
Any director appointed during the year is directors expect that the Company will exercise its rights to redeem for cash any separately required to retire and seek election by the shareholders at the next AGM.
B Shares that remain in issue.
The Board also requires any non-executive director who has served on the Board for more than nine years to be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
Going concern The directors appointed during the year seeking election by shareholders at the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the AGM are Helen Alexander and Mike Terrett.
Peter Byrom, having served 11 years on Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the the Board, is subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The directors retiring foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in under the annual re-election provisions contained in the Articles of Association are preparing the financial statements.
Sir John Rose, Andrew Shilston, Colin Smith, Ian Strachan and Carl Symon.
With the exception of Carl Symon they all offer themselves for re-election.
Political donations The Articles of Association also provide that no person may be appointed to the In line with its established policy, the Group made no political donations during 2007. office of chairman in an executive capacity or to the office of chief executive, While it remains the Groups policy not to make donations to political parties managing director or joint managing director of the Company, unless he is a British it is possible that certain routine activities undertaken by the Group might citizen.
No person may be appointed to the office of director of the Company if, unintentionally fall within the broad scope of the provisions controlling political immediately following such appointment, the number of directors of the Company donations and expenditure contained in the Companies Act 2006. who are not British citizens would exceed one half of the total number of directors of A resolution will therefore be proposed at the 2008 AGM seeking shareholder the Company for the time being.
approval for the directors to be given authority to make donations and incur Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum and expenditure up to a maximum amount of 25,000 per Group company and a Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution, the directors maximum amount of 50,000 for the entire Group, which might otherwise be may exercise all the powers of the Company.
caught by the terms of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of its directors.
The deeds provide substantially the same protection as that already provided to directors under the indemnity in Article 170 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for any legal action taken against its directors.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 49 Governance Financial statements Share capital Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations on holdings At December 31, 2007, the Companys authorised share capital comprised: There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the ordinary 2,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 20p: 1,000,000,000,000 B Shares of 0.1p: one Special shares or B Shares other than under the Articles of Association as described below, Share of 1: 50,000 preference shares of 1.
On December 31, 2007, the following under restrictions imposed by law or regulation for example, insider trading laws or shares were in issue proportion of total by nominal value : ordinary shares pursuant to the Companys share dealing code.
Both ordinary The Articles of Association provide that the Company should be and remain shares and B Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
As such, an individual foreign shareholding limit is set at 15 per cent of the aggregate votes attaching to the share capital of all classes Rights of each class of share taken as a whole and capable of being cast on a poll and to all other shares that the directors determine are to be included in the calculation of such holding.
Ordinary Shares The rights and obligations attaching to ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to Shareholder agreements and consent requirements attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more There are no known arrangements under which financial rights carried by any of the proxies or, if they are corporations, corporate representatives, and to exercise voting shares in the Company are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a bonus issue of B Shares or a dividend no known agreements between the holders of shares with restrictions on the transfer and on liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of ordinary of shares or exercise of voting rights.
shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual report.
Subject to meeting No disposal may be made to a non Group member which, alone or when certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of aggregated with, the same or a connected transaction, constitutes a disposal of the the Company and the proposal of resolutions at general meetings.
whole or a material part of either the nuclear business or the assets of the Group as a whole, without consent of the Special Shareholder.
B Shares Since July 2004, the Company has issued non-cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares B Shares as an alternative to paying a cash dividend.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Shareholders are able to redeem any number of their B Shares for cash or convert Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received them into ordinary shares.
Any B Shares retained attract a dividend of 75 per cent of by the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting.
LIBOR on the 0.1p nominal value of each share, paid on a twice-yearly basis, and have limited voting rights.
In certain circumstances the Company has the option to Authority to issue shares compulsorily redeem the B Shares, at any time, if the aggregate number of B Shares At the AGM in 2007, authority was given to the directors to allot new ordinary shares in issue is less than ten per cent of the aggregate number of B Shares issued, or on up to a nominal value of 124,149,953, equivalent to one third of the issued share the acquisition or capital restructuring of the Company.
capital of the Company at February 7, 2007.
Such authority is valid until the AGM in On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of B Shares shall be entitled, 2008 or 18 months from May 2, 2007, whichever is the earlier.
A further special in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares, to the repayment of resolution was passed to effect a disapplication of pre-emption rights for a maximum the nominal capital paid-up or credited as paid-up on the B Shares held by them, of five per cent of the issued share capital of the Company at February 7, 2007.
The together with a sum equal to the outstanding preferential dividend which will have directors propose to renew these authorities at the AGM in 2008. been accrued but not been paid until the date of return of capital.
At the AGM in 2007, authority was given to the directors to allot new B Shares The holders of B Shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at a General up to a nominal value of 200 million as an alternative to a cash dividend.
Such Meeting only if a resolution to wind up the Company is to be considered, in which authority is valid until the AGM in 2008 or 18 months from May 2, 2007, whichever is case they may vote only on such resolution.
The directors propose to renew this authority at the AGM in 2008.
Special Share Certain rights, set out in the Companys Articles of Association, attach Voting rights for employee share plan shares to the special rights non-voting share Special Share issued to HM Government Shares are held in various employee benefit trusts for the purpose of satisfying Special Shareholder.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, the awards made under the various employee share plans.
For shares held in a nominee Special Share may be redeemed by the Treasury Solicitor at par at any time.
The capacity or if plan trust rules provide the participant with the right to vote in respect Special Share confers no rights to dividends but in the event of a winding-up it of specifically allocated shares, the trustee votes in line with the participants shall be repaid at its nominal value in priority to any other shares.
For shares that are not held absolutely on behalf of specific individuals, Certain Articles in particular those relating to the foreign shareholding limit, the general policy of the trustees, in accordance with investor protection guidelines, disposals and the nationality of directors that relate to the rights attached to the is to abstain from voting in respect of those shares.
Special Share may only be altered with the consent of the Special Shareholder.
The Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at any General Meeting or any other Interests in voting rights meeting of any class of shareholders.
At February 6, 2008, the following companies had disclosed an interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with the requirements of the Preference Shares The 50,000 preference shares were issued pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Companys incorporation and were subsequently redeemed.
They cannot be % of issued ordinary share capital reissued.
Invesco Limited 6.91 Legal and General Group Plc 5.61 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 50 Governance Financial statements Report of the directors continued Change of control Employee share plans In the event of a change of control of the Company, the effect on the employee Major contracts share plans would be as follows: There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements which would allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those arrangements in the event of a change Executive Share Option Plan All options granted have vested and are of control of the Company.
These arrangements are commercially confidential and exercisable.
Consequently, no early vesting is currently possible.
It is not their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
proposed to make any further grants under this plan, which terminates in 2009.
Borrowings and other financial instruments Performance Share Plan Awards would vest pro-rata to service in the The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various lenders.
These performance period, subject to remuneration committee judgement of facilities generally include provisions which, upon the occurrence of a change of company performance.
control of the Company, may require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration or termination of the facility.
At December 31, 2007 these facilities were Annual Performance Related Award deferred shares The shares would be substantially undrawn.
The Group has entered into a series of financial instruments to hedge its currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.
These contracts provide for ShareSave Options would become exercisable immediately.
The new termination or alteration in the event that a change of control of the Company company might offer an equivalent option in exchange for cancellation of the materially weakens the creditworthiness of the Group.
Share Incentive Plan Consideration received as shares would be held within the Plan, if possible, otherwise the consideration would be treated as a disposal from the Plan.
By order of the Board Tim Rayner General Counsel and Company Secretary February 6, 2008
