Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 46 Governance Financial statements Board of directors At February 6, 2008 Simon Robertson John Rishton Non-executive Chairman since 2005, Chairman of the nominations committee Non-executive director, Chairman of the audit committee, Appointed to the Board in 2004.
He is the founder member of Simon Robertson a member of the nominations committee Associates LLP and a non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc, Berry Bros & Appointed to the Board in March 2007.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Royal Ahold.
Rudd Ltd, and The Economist Newspaper Limited.
He is a director of The Royal Opera He began his career in 1979 at Ford Motor Company and held a variety of positions House Covent Garden Limited, a Trustee of The Eden Project and the Royal Opera both in the UK and in Europe.
In 1994 he joined British Airways plc where he was House Endowment Fund.
He is the former President of Goldman Sachs Europe Chief Financial Officer from 2001 to 2005.
He is a former non-executive director of Limited.
Sir John Rose Andrew B Shilston MA, ACA, MCT Chief Executive since 1996, a member of the nominations committee Finance Director Appointed to the Board in 1992 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1984.
He is a Trustee Appointed to the Board in 2003 having joined Rolls-Royce in 2002.
He is a of The Eden Project.
Age 55. non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC and was Finance Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 until 2002.
Helen Alexander CBE Non-executive director, a member of the remuneration and Colin P Smith BSc Hons, FREng, FRAeS, FIMechE nominations committees Director Engineering and Technology Appointed to the Board in September 2007.
Helen Alexander was appointed Appointed to the Board in 2005 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1974.
He has held a Chief Executive of The Economist Group in January 1997, having joined the company variety of key positions within Engineering, including Director Research and in 1984.
She was Managing Director of The Economist Intelligence Unit from 1993 Technology and Director of Engineering and Technology Civil Aerospace.
She is a non-executive director of Centrica plc, a Trustee of the Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Tate Gallery and a governor of St Pauls GirlsSchool.
She was awarded a CBE for Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Age 52. services to publishing in 2004.
She has an MBA from INSEAD.
She is currently Chairman of PPA, the magazine industry trade association.
Ian C Strachan Non-executive director, a member of the audit and nominations committees Peter J Byrom BSc, FCA Appointed to the Board in 2003.
He is a non-executive director of Reuters Group plc, Non-executive director, a member of the remuneration and Johnson Matthey plc, Xstrata plc and Transocean Inc.
He was Chief Executive of nominations committees BTR plc, Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer of Rio Tinto plc Appointed to the Board in 1997.
He is Chairman of Domino Printing Sciences plc and non-executive Chairman of Instinet Group Inc. Age 64. and Molins PLC, and a non-executive director of AMEC plc.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
He was a director of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited from Carl G Symon BSc, MSc 1977 to 1996.
Non-executive director, Chairman of the remuneration committee, a member of the nominations committee Iain C Conn Appointed to the Board in 1999.
He is Chairman of HMV Group plc and Clearswift Non-executive director, Senior Independent Director, Systems Ltd.
He is also a non-executive director of BT Group plc and Chairman of the a member of the audit and nominations committees BT Group Equality of Access Board, Senior Independent Director of Rexam plc and an Appointed to the Board in 2005.
He is an executive director of BP p. l. c. having held a Advisory Board member of Cross Atlantic Capital Partners.
He was previously range of executive positions within the BP Group worldwide.
He is Chairman of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, IBM UK and held numerous executive positions Advisory Board of The Imperial College London Tanaka Business School.
Age 45. with IBM Corp. in Canada, USA, Latin America, Asia and Europe during a 32 year international career.
Professor Peter Gregson Non-executive director, a member of the remuneration and Mike J Terrett nominations committees Chief Operating Officer Appointed to the Board in March 2007.
He is President and Vice-Chancellor of Appointed to the Board in September 2007, having joined Rolls-Royce in 1978.
Queens University Belfast and serves on the Northern Ireland Economic He has held a variety of senior positions in the development of new aero engine Development Forum, the Council of CBI Northern Ireland and the Steering Group of programmes, including Managing Director of Airlines and President and Chief the US Ireland Research and Development Partnership.
He is a Fellow and Council Executive Officer of International Aero Engines IAE based in the United States.
Prior Member of the Royal Academy of Engineering, a member of the Royal Irish Academy, to his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, he was President Civil Aerospace.
and Deputy Lieutenant of Belfast.
He was formerly Professor of Aerospace Materials He is a member of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal and Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the University of Southampton and has served on the Aeronautical Society.
Council for the Central Laboratory of the Research Councils CCLRC.
Tim Rayner James M Guyette BSc General Counsel and Company Secretary President and Chief Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North America Inc.
He joined Rolls-Royce in 2007 having previously been General Counsel and Company Appointed to the Board in 1998 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1997.
He is a director of Secretary at United Utilities PLC.
Age 47. the Private Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Illinois and of priceline.
com Inc. Until 1995 he was Executive Vice President, Marketing and Planning of United Airlines.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 47 Governance Financial statements The Group Executive The Group Executive is responsible for the management of the Group within the strategy determined by the Board.
It is chaired by Sir John Rose, Chief Executive, and its other members are: Axel Arendt President Defence Aerospace Dr Mike Lloyd President Gas Turbine Operations Dr Mike Orris Chief Procurement Officer Charles Blundell Director of Public Affairs Tom Brown Director Human Resources John Paterson President Marine Miles Cowdry President Services Tim Rayner General Counsel and Company Secretary Tom Curley President Energy Andrew Shilston Finance Director James Guyette President and Chief Executive Officer of Colin Smith Director Engineering and Technology Rolls-Royce North America Inc. Mike Terrett Chief Operating Officer Dr Michael Haidinger Chairman of Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG Mark King President Civil Aerospace International Advisory Board The International Advisory Board IAB, formed in 2006, advises the Group on emerging political, business and economic trends.
Membership of the IAB is as follows: Lord Powell of Bayswater Chairman of IAB, former Foreign Aairs and Defence General Sir Mike Jackson Former Chief of the General Sta, Adviser to Prime Ministers Margaret Thatcher and UK Ministry of Defence John Major Mustafa Ko Chairman of Ko Holding AS Bernard Duc Senior Partner, Hollingsworth Management Taizo Nishimuro Chairman of Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc and International Ltd Hong Kong former Chairman of Toshiba Corporation former Deputy Chairman of the Rolls-Royce European Advisory Board Lubna Olayan CEO of the Olayan Financing Company General Counsel, A. Touboul Law rm Paris Eduardo Serra Former Spanish Defence Minister Sir Rod Eddington Non-executive Chairman, Australia & New Zealand Ratan Tata Chairman of Tata Sons Ltd JPMorgan Chase Bank NA and former Chief Executive, British Airways Plc Matthias Wissmann Former Minister for Transport and Research in Germany, President of the Association of the German Boris Federov Member of Gazprom Board, former Minister of Automotive Industry VDA, Vice-Chairman of the Finance of the Russian Federation Federation of German Industries BDI and Dr Fan Gang Professor at Chinas Academy of Social Sciences and Partner at WilmerHale Head of National Economic Research Institute Lee Hsien Yang Chairman, Fraser & Neave Limited Carla Hills Chair and CEO, Hills & Company, International Ernesto Zedillo Former President of Mexico, Director, Yale Center for Consultants, former US Trade Representative, the Study of Globalization former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, former Assistant Attorney General South East Asia Advisory Board Rolls-Royce formed the South East Asia Advisory Board SEAAB in 1987 to advise the main Board on political, economic and business trends in Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines.
It is chaired by Sir John Rose, Chief Executive, and its other members are: Chatrachai Bunya-Ananta Member of the National Legislative Council of Thailand Edward W Rubin Chairman of a Hong Kong-based private investment Former Senator of Thailand company, Non-Executive Director of Singapore-listed Former President of Thai Airways International plc Noble Group Ltd Bernard Duc Senior Partner, Hollingsworth Management Soedibyo Brigadier-General retired International Ltd Hong Kong Senior Fellow, Institute for Strategic Studies of Indonesia Deputy Chairman of the Rolls-Royce SEAAB Former Vice-Assistant to the Commander-in-Chief former Deputy Chairman of the Indonesian Air Force for Policy & Planning Rolls-Royce European Advisory Board Prof Mrs Tan Sook Yee Member of the Panel of the Strata Titles Board General Counsel, A. Touboul Law firm Paris Ex-Professor of Law, National University of Singapore DatoJaffar Indot Independent Non-Executive Director, Shell Refining Ashadi Tjahjadi Air Chief Marshall retired Company FO Berhad Former Chief of Staff of the Indonesian Air Force Chairman, Malaysian Dutch Business Council Former Indonesia Ambassador to Germany President, Federation of Family Planning Associations Malaysia Dr Bernardo M Villegas University Professor, University of Asia and the Pacific, Manila, Philippines, Visiting Professor in Economics, H E Ambassador Chairman President, Philippine Council for Foreign Relations IESE Business School, Barcelona, Spain Jose V Romero, Jr Former Philippines Ambassador to Italy
