ANNUAL REPORT 14 & ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED ROTORK SITE SERVICES PROVIDES SUPPORT AT PLANT LEVEL ON ALL APPLICATIONS WHERE OUR PRODUCTS ARE USED.
Rotork has been a leading actuator RSS provides support at plant level Within RSS, our aim is to make the Through delivering added value manufacturer for over 50 years on all applications where our application and utilisation of our services across the world we and its valve actuators and products are used.
Embedded products and services easy continue to differentiate our gearboxes are designed to provide within the site structure, and often whether it is by: business, strengthen relationships a significant service life, often within the customers operating Delivering small turnkey with our customers and contribute in arduous conditions.
Long-term team, our engineers can provide projects to actuate existing to the growth in the Groups cost of ownership is an important total support to ensure that the manual valves for customers: revenue and profits.
factor to our customers along plant operator gets maximum Refurbishing aging actuators One significant area of growth in with reliability, and these issues advantage from its investment.
In typically 25 years old to give 2007 has been the uptake of multidrive the choice of Rotork over addition, we are able to aid the them another lifetime of utility: year preventative maintenance any alternative.
With Rotork customer when investment Project managing the contracts, particularly by the providing the after sales support, programmes are being considered upgrading of sites entire petrochemical sector where uptime customers know that the by providing technical input to the actuation assets and associated is of critical importance.
We now equipment will be maintained to expansion and upgrading of equipment: have over 100 maintenance its original specication and equipment and to ensure that the Connecting actuators to contracts covering over 50,000 operational efficiency, which is correct equipment is considered valves for new build projects actuators worldwide.
Through particularly beneficial where the and commissioned appropriately.
for valve makers and end combining technology built into product is certied.
customers to facilitate easier our actuators, expert service installation on site: Rotork Site Services RSS, the engineers and data evaluation Delivering preventative new projects, service and retrot processes, we are able to identify maintenance programmes: arm of the Group which supports deterioration within a valve early.
Availability of our engineers on all three divisions, is active in 47 This enables unnecessary outages a call out basis to support the service centres in over 20 countries to be minimised whilst focusing customers own maintenance around the world, with agents maintenance expenditure where programme.
providing support services in it is needed.
This brings 2008 will see RSS grow further in the total number of expert terms of the service centres we technicians supporting Rotork operate from, the scope of the customers to well over 1,000. services we provide and the value we bring our customers.
IQ PRO MULTI TURN ACTUATOR FOR LOW TEMPERATURE OPERATION ON NATURAL GAS PIPELINES.
STANDARD 1P68 TEMPERATURE RANGE AND EXPLOSION PROOF ENCLOSURE ONCE INSTALLED, OUR PRODUCT IS PRACTICALLY IGNORED BY OUR CUSTOMER.
