ANNUAL REPORT 26 & ACCOUNTS 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors submit their report In January 2008 the Group NOTIFICATION OF MAJOR The Companys procedure with and the audited accounts for the acquired Remote Control Sweden INTEREST IN SHARES regard to the appointment and year ended 31 December 2007 as AB details of the transaction are Since the 2006 Directors Report replacement of directors and those set out on pages 42 to 77. provided in note 27. the Company has been notied of powers reserved for the Board is major interests and voting rights described in the Corporate PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The principal risks and held directly and or indirectly by Governance Report on pages Rotork p. l. c. is a holding company.
uncertainties facing the Group and the following: 28 to 30.
The principal activities of the the Groups approach to mitigating Rotork Group are the design, those risks are set out on pages 18 At the Annual General Meeting % OF VOTING RIGHTS manufacture and support of to 19.
AGM, in accordance with the Axa 8.7 actuators, systems and related Articles of Association, IG King, Legal & General 5.2 DIVIDENDS products worldwide.
RE Slater and GM Ogden will retire Prudential 3.3 The directors recommend a final by rotation and, being eligible, will The Rotork Group provides a range dividend of 12,116,000 for the offer themselves for re-election.
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT of products, systems and services year, payable on 9 May 2008 to JE Nicholas will also offer himself Total Group expenditure on for the motorisation and manual shareholders on the register on for re-election at the AGM, it research & development in the operation of and adaption to 18 April 2008.
This represents being his first opportunity to do year was 3,375,000 2006: industrial valves and dampers for 14.0p per ordinary share so since appointment.
2,759,000 further details of isolation duty and process control 2006:11.65p which with the which are contained in the applications.
It does this through its interim dividend of 7.7p 2006: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Business Review on pages Controls, Gears and Fluid Systems 6.5p paid on 28 September 2007 An explanation of the Group 16 to 17. divisions.
Actuated valves are major and the additional interim dividend policies on the use of financial control elements in reneries, of 9.3p 2006: 11.6p paid on CHARITABLE DONATIONS instruments and financial risk pipelines, power stations, water 21 June 2007 will produce a total During the year the Group made management objectives are distribution systems and efuent dividend per ordinary share of charitable donations of 48,000 contained in note 22 of these treatment plants and in all 31.0p 2006: 29.75p.
industries in which liquids or gases SHARE CAPITAL STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS There were no political donations are transported through pipes.
Details of the ordinary shares issued RESPONSIBILITY FOR PREPARING made in the year or the prior year.
The Business Review of the Group during 2007 are given in note 16.
THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS is set out on pages 6 to 21.
It Details of the Companys share The following statement, which The names of the directors in provides a balanced and capital including rights and should be read in conjunction ofce at the year end and their comprehensive analysis of the obligations attaching to each class with the Auditors Statement of biographical and other details development and performance of of share are set out in note 16 of Auditors Responsibilities, included including the other significant the business during the year under the financial statements.
5p in the audit report, is made with commitments of the Chairman are review and the position at the end ordinary shares represent over a view to distinguishing for as shown on pages 24 to 25.
The of the year, including future 99.9% of the Companys total shareholders the respective interests of the directors in ofce development of the business and share capital.
1 preference shares responsibilities of the directors and at the end of the financial year in research & development activities.
represent less than 0.1% of the of the Auditors in relation to the the shares of the Company are as To enable a full understanding of Companys total share capital.
shown in the Remuneration Report the analysis of the Groups EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES Statement of Directors on pages 34 to 40. business, financial and other Shares in the Companys share Responsibilities in Respect of key performance indicators are On 28 February 2008 JE Nicholas schemes all contain provisions the Annual Report & Accounts included in the Business Review.
was appointed as a non-executive providing voting rights to the The directors are responsible for director.
preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial WH Whiteley, RE Slater, RH Arnold, statements in accordance with GM Ogden and PI France have applicable law and regulations.
service agreements and details of these are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 40.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 27 Company law requires the directors For the Company financial CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY AUDITORS to prepare Group and Company statements, state whether While there is no formal code or Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG financial statements for each applicable UK Accounting standard, it is Company and Group Audit Plc as auditors and to financial year.
Under that law they Standards have been followed, policy to settle terms of payment authorise the directors to determine are required to prepare the Group subject to any material with creditors when agreeing the their remuneration are to be financial statements in accordance departures disclosed and terms of each transaction and to proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
with IFRS as adopted by the EU and explained in the Company abide by creditors terms of ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING applicable law and have elected to financial statements: payment provided that the supplier The AGM of the Company prepare the Company financial Prepare the financial statements is also complying with all relevant will be held at the Companys statements in accordance with UK on the going concern basis terms and conditions.
There are no ofces at Rotork House, Brassmill Accounting Standards and unless it is inappropriate to creditors subject to special Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ on Friday, applicable law UK Generally presume that the Group and arrangements outside suppliers 2 May 2008 at 12 noon.
the Company will continue in terms and conditions.
The A separate circular containing the business.
Company does not have any trade The Group financial statements Notice of the Meeting is suppliers so that a creditor day are required by law and IFRS as The directors are responsible for sent to shareholders with this payment period is not appropriate.
adopted by the EU to present keeping proper accounting records Annual Report & Accounts.
fairly the financial position and that disclose with reasonable DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS performance of the Group: the accuracy at any time the financial INDEMNITY INSURANCE Companies Act 1985 provides in position of the Company and Subject to the provisions of relation to such financial enable them to ensure that its the Companies Acts the statements that references in the financial statements comply with Companys Articles of Association relevant part of that Act to the Companies Act 1985.
They provide for the directors and financial statements giving a true have general responsibility for ofcers of the Company to be and fair view are references to taking such steps as are reasonably appropriately indemnified.
The ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD their achieving a fair presentation.
open to them to safeguard the Company purchases and maintains STEPHEN RHYS JONES assets of the Group and to prevent insurance for the directors and COMPANY SECRETARY The Company financial statements and detect fraud and other ofcers of the Company, in 29 FEBRUARY 2008 are required by law to give a true irregularities.
undertaking their duties, in and fair view of the state of affairs accordance with section 309 A of of the Company.
Under applicable law and the Companies Act 1985. regulations, the directors are also In preparing each of the Group DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION responsible for preparing and Company financial TO AUDITORS a Directors Report, Remuneration statements, the directors are The directors who held ofce at the Report and Corporate Governance required to: date of approval of this Directors Statement that comply with that Select suitable accounting Report confirm that, so far as they law and those regulations.
policies and then apply them are each aware, there is no relevant consistently: The directors are responsible audit information of which the Make judgements and for the maintenance and integrity Companys auditors are unaware: estimates that are reasonable of the corporate and financial and each director has taken all the and prudent: information included in the steps that he ought to have taken For the Group financial Companys website.
Legislation in as a director to make himself aware statements, state whether they the UK governing the preparation of any relevant audit information have been prepared in and dissemination of financial and to establish that the accordance with IFRS as statements may differ from Companys auditors are aware of adopted by the EU: legislation in other jurisdictions.
