ANNUAL REPORT 16 & ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT CONTINUAL INVESTMENT IN OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO IS AN IMPORTANT PART OF ROTORKS SUCCESS.
With a significant proportion of The release of an optional module Following the extensive feasibility The HIPPS approach can provide our income derived from products that enables the IQ series of exercise reported last year, work environmental benets in the form introduced within the last five products to be used within safety commenced at the beginning of of reduced venting to atmosphere years, investment in our product instrumented systems signalled the 2007 on the detailed design of a and in some cases may eliminate portfolio is an important part of successful conclusion of this family of actuators for the process the need for aring.
This is an important developments have included continuous improvement of our response indicates that the addition area of development for Rotork.
It increasing the torque capability of main electric and uid power has been well received and will is expected that initial sizes of this the pipeline solutions to enable actuator ranges, we have assist users in complying with product will commence production their use in severe service mining continued to invest in our regulatory requirements.
Other IQ in the second half of 2008. applications, where the latest proprietary Pakscan networking related research has focused on the A marketing structure has been autoclave valves require in excess system with further development use of alternate materials as a dened and is being built up.
of the master station to extend its means of reducing costs.
Test products have been giving Development work has also been functionality and enable it to be excellent performances at a Work continues on the undertaken in a combined effort installed outside the protected number of Beta sites and the development of a variant of the between the Fluid Systems and environment of the control room.
launch of this new product line for IQT product for naval applications Gears divisions to provide a sea Development of a mesh based Rotork is eagerly awaited.
with first shipments expected bed solution for the hydraulic wireless system has now reached during the last quarter of 2008.
The Fluid Systems division has automation of subsea valves with a stage where the initial technical continued to work closely with its independent manual override.
hurdles have been overcome and key customers resulting in the eld trials are anticipated during Within the Gears division a project approval of fast acting spring 2008.
This is an important commenced to develop a new return actuators suitable for use development, which will enable range of manual quarter-turn within high integrity pressure our customers to extend their gearboxes for valve operation.
plant visibility and control systems The aim is to increase exibility as Such actuators are an essential at very reasonable cost and with well as performance, making the component of the safety minimal disruption.
The continued product suitable for stocking and instrumented systems required to development of, and improvement modication at customisation mitigate over pressure events.
to, plant control and monitoring centres around the world.
This systems is an important part of the project is expected to continue drive towards more energy throughout 2008 with design and efficient intelligent plant processes, testing of a number of prototype and Rotork has established a units already well underway.
market leadership role in valve actuator control systems.
PIPELINE APPLICATION OPERATIONAL AMBIENT TO -50C SPECIAL LUBRICATION REQUIRED RELIABILITY COUNTS.
WHATEVER THE CONDITIONS, OUR ACTUATORS ARE DESIGNED TO WORK EFFECTIVELY FOR A LIFETIME.
