A selection of RPS projects from 2007 7 RPS continues to be a leading provider of multi-disciplinary consultancy services on airport developments throughout the world, working on projects of national importance such as Dublin, Guernsey, Luton, Stansted and Heathrow.
Managing one of the worlds largest ever Environmental Impact Assessments, linked to the commercialisation of untapped gas fields representing 25% of Australias gas reserves.
Barrow Island, Australia Value engineering aimed at reducing construction costs and times led to successful completion of Irelands largest cross-border road project five months ahead of schedule.
The A1 N1 Dublin Belfast corridor, Ireland & Northern Ireland RPS is shaping major regeneration schemes across the UK, including landmark urban renewal projects in Belfast, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, London, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Nottingham and Sheffield.
Business Review 8 Our Energy staff provided extensive technical support which enabled Salamander Energy Plc, on the 30th November 2007, to become the first oil and gas exploration and production company since 2004 to undertake an IPO on the full list of the London Stock Exchange.
Commissioned to prepare the architectural, structural and civil engineering designs as well as advising on waste planning and technology for a revolutionary mechanical biological waste treatment plant in Cambridgeshire, the first of its kind in the UK.
Donarbon, Cambridgeshire UK Alongside the existing 2,000 MW coal and biomass co-fired power station at Longannet in Fife, located on a protected coastal zone, RPS has assisted Scottish Power in developing Scotland's largest dedicated biomass fired energy plant 25 MW with rigorous air quality, human health risk and ecological studies.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 W We e ha hav five e a reputation f a reputation for meeting the challenges posed b or meeting the challenges posed by y lar large ge, complex projects and prob complex projects and problems and f lems and for conducting b or conducting business in an usiness in an open and responsib open and responsible manner le manner.. 9 Working on preparations for the 2012 London Olympics, RPS is involved in the development of the athletes village, rail infrastructure and on business relocations, advising on planning, transport, environment as well as building and urban design aspects.
RPS support assisted clients schemes win the Mayor's Award for Excellence King's Cross and the Best Conceptual Project Brent Cross Cricklewood New Town Centre at the London Planning Awards.
At the forefront of offshore jack-up drilling rig engineering, RPS has for many years been providing risk management advice and is now producing international guidelines for the safe emplacement and removal of rigs in collaboration with industry organisations.
RPS is assisting Centrica Renewables on the development, engineering and construction phases of the Lynn and Inner Dowsing Offshore Wind Farm, the largest wind farm under construction in UK waters.
Report & Accounts 2007 10 RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007
