Integrated services IV Energy Planning & Development Environmental Management RPS Energy is a global multiRPS has expertise in all aspects of the During thirty-five years involvement in disciplinary consultancy, providing planning and development process environmental management, we have integrated technical, commercial and from site identification and project gained insight into the commercial project management support definition to implementation and challenges and political, ethical and services in the fields of geoscience, management.
We offer planning, legal issues facing our clients.
engineering and HS&E to the energy design and environmental services of We provide advice and services to sector.
We operate from regional international repute operating from both public and private sectors in offices in the UK, Europe, North our extensive network of offices.
such diverse areas as health, safety, America, Australia and Asia.
Our environmental roots mean that environment, water, risk assessment, RPS Energy helps its clients develop we have a unique ability to deliver civil engineering, surveying, natural energy resources across the schemes that meet the increasingly laboratories and systems.
complete asset life cycle, combining challenging sustainability standards We appreciate that our professional our technical and commercial skills expected by local and national advice must be technically excellent and with a wide knowledge of government and those who own, commercially appropriate, but also environmental issues.
We have an occupy and fund developments.
politically aware and culturally sensitive.
annual portfolio of over 500 projects, in over 100 countries, for over 100 clients.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 E G S U N S A T H A I C N Our ability to integrate specialist knowledge across areas of expertise is highly valued by clients.
V Renewable Energy Town & Country Planning Geoscience and Engineering Regeneration Building Design Seismic Environmental Operations Assessment Urban & Landscape Design Reserves Ecology Reporting Well Transportation Heritage Operations Eco Homes & Asset Green Buildings Evaluation Civil & Structural Engineering Equity Determination M & E Engineering Energy Health & Safety Management Laboratory Risk Management Services Waste Management Utilities Network Safety Management Engineering Air Quality & Noise Waste Water Engineering Occupational Asbestos Health Report & Accounts 2007 E A T B I A L M I T I Y L C VI Every year since its inception in 2001, RPS has been named in the FTSE4Good index of socially responsible companies.
RPS is also a member of the FTSE 250 index on the London Stock Exchange.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007
