The executive committee excom is appointed by the Chief Executive.
It comprises the Chief Financial Officer, divisional managing directors and EXECUTIVE directors of group functions.
Its purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board.
In that context, COMMITTEE excom co-ordinates brand and operational execution and delivers strategic plans and budgets for the boards consideration.
It also ensures that regular financial reports are presented to the board, that effective internal controls are in place and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the group.
Norman Adami 52 Alan Clark 47 Sue Clark 43 John Davidson 48 Nick Fell 53 BBusSc hons, MBA MA, DLitt et Phil BSc hons, MBA MA, BCL Oxon BA hons President and Chief Executive Managing Director, Corporate Affairs Director, General Counsel and Group Marketing Director, Officer, SABMiller Americas SABMiller Europe SABMiller plc Company Secretary, SABMiller plc SABMiller plc Norman Adami was appointed Dr Clark was appointed Managing Sue Clark was appointed Corporate John Davidson joined the group Nick Fell was appointed Marketing President and Chief Executive Director, SABMiller Europe in 2003.
Affairs Director, SABMiller plc in as General Counsel and Group Director, SABMiller plc in 2006.
Officer, SABMiller Americas in He joined SAB Ltd in 1990 as 2003.
Prior to this, she held a Company Secretary in 2006.
Before Prior to this, he worked for Cadbury 2006.
He joined The South African Training and Development Manager.
number of senior roles in UK joining the group, he spent his Schweppes Plc, as President, Breweries Limited SAB Ltd in He has since held a number of companies, including Director of entire legal career at Lovells, a Global Commercial Strategy and 1975 and has held a number of senior positions in the group, Corporate Affairs, Railtrack Group leading international law firm, where also as Director of Marketing, senior positions in the group.
including Marketing Director, from 2000 to 2003 and Director of he had been a partner since 1991.
He These include Regional Director, SAB Ltd, Managing Director, Corporate Affairs, Scottish Power He has worked on numerous previously worked for Diageo plc Operations Director, Managing Amalgamated Beverage Industries plc from 1996 to 2000. projects for SABMiller since Lovells for 15 years in a number of senior Director and Chairman, SAB Ltd, Ltd and Chairman, Appletiser South was first appointed as the groups roles including Global Brands and President and Chief Executive Africa Pty Ltd. Before joining the principal UK legal adviser in 1998, Director, Johnnie Walker, and Officer, Miller Brewing Company.
group, he practised as a clinical including the London listing in 1999, Group Marketing Director, psychologist and lectured in the Miller, Peroni and Bavaria Group Guinness Brewing.
psychology at Vista University transactions, and various bond in South Africa.
Tony van Kralingen 49 Tom Long 48 Johann Nel 50 Andr Parker 56 Barry Smith 56 BA hons BA, MBA BA hons B Econ hons BSc, MBA Managing Director, The President and Human Resources Director, Managing Director, President, SABMiller South African Breweries Chief Executive Officer, SABMiller plc SABMiller Africa and Asia Latin America Limited Miller Brewing Company Tony van Kralingen was appointed Tom Long was appointed President Johann Nel was appointed Human Andr Parker was appointed to his Barry Smith was appointed Managing Director, SAB Ltd in and Chief Executive Officer, Miller Resources Director, SABMiller plc in current position in 1994.
He joined President, SABMiller Latin America 2003.
He joined SAB Ltd in 1982 Brewing Company in 2006 after 2002.
He joined SAB Ltd in 1997 SAB Ltd in 1975, and has held in 2007 and prior to this he was and has held a number of senior joining the company in 2005 as and was appointed Human a number of senior positions in President, SABMiller South America positions in the group.
Prior to Resources Director in 1998.
He joined SAB Ltd in include Managing Director, Plzensky this he was President, Northwest previously owned a consulting Manager Central Region, SAB Ltd, 1984 and has held a number of Prazdroj A. S. Marketing Director, Europe Division, The Coca-Cola organisation, and had worked with and Managing Director, South African senior positions in the group.
These SAB Ltd and Operations Director Company and he previously held SAB Ltd on various major strategy, Breweries International Africa.
include Marketing Director, SAB Northern Region, SAB Ltd. senior positions at the companys organisational development and Ltd, Managing Director, Kompania US headquarters, including human resources projects since Piwowarska S. A. and Senior Vice Vice President National Sales, 1988.
He has co-authored a book President, Market Development and Vice President and Director on managing productive change in Strategy, Miller Brewing Company.
Research & Trends, and Vice organisations and was involved in President and Director Global initiatives to encourage business Strategic Marketing.
involvement in the democratisation of South Africa in the 1980s and 1990s.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Executive committee 44
