Sharing our learning Risk is an accepted part of doing Boosted by favourable weather and the Our fourth strategic priority is to leverage our business.
As we describe in the Corporate soccer World Cup, volumes grew by 12%, global scale and ensure that each operation governance section on pages 39 and 40, with reported EBITA up 29% the sixth benefits from the resources and experience the group has a well developed riskyear of double-digit earnings growth.
Our of SABMiller as a whole.
Our scale is management process for identifying and Europe region represents and contains much enormously valuable, for example, in monitoring the principal risks to the of what were trying to achieve worldwide.
enabling us to develop and distribute business.
This process is integrated into Were building strong, highly differentiated regional and international premium brands.
the groups strategic and business planning brand portfolios, consistently rejuvenating We also have vast expertise across the process and is designed to manage, our core mainstream brands, growing organisation and we are using our scale to rather than eliminate, the risk of failure aggressively in the premium sector and transfer skills, methods and technologies in achieving our business objectives.
performing well at the point of sale.
A case in point is our The principal risks facing the group are We also had an excellent year in Latin system of SABMiller Ways the set out in the panel below.
America, where the impact of our marketing codification of best practice in key areas of In addition, the groups activities expose and sales activities was supported by strong our operations to enable critical knowledge it to a variety of financial risks.
These are economic growth across the region.
to be spread quickly and efficiently across discussed in note 22 to the consolidated Volumes were up by 12% on a pro forma the group.
basis with EBITA of US$915 million.
Our Addressing risks rapid progress is due, in part, to the way Review of operations As we implement our strategic priorities, weve integrated these operations into the The groups good organic growth during we face the challenge common to all large SABMiller group, rapidly transferring skills, the year demonstrates the strong underlying companies of striking the balance between methods and technology.
Our actions to momentum in the business.
risk and reward that is most appropriate for transform the beer markets in Latin America our shareholders.
Our Europe region, which principally are exceeding our initial expectations and we operates in central and eastern Europe, plan to make significant investments to meet has continued its remarkable performance.
Our strategic priorities SABMiller has a clear strategic focus, at the centre of which are the four priorities set out below and discussed in more detail on the following pages.
Management use a range of indicators to monitor progress against these four priorities.
Some of the most important measures used are identified in the accompanying table and are expanded upon in the Chief Financial Officers review on pages 18 to 23.
Our geographical spread of operations enables Creating a balanced us to capture growth in beer volumes in the and attractive global 10% 11% developing markets, and value growth as consumers around the world trade upwards spread of businesses organic volume group revenue growth from economy to mainstream and from growth organic constant mainstream to premium brands.
currency page 10 Our aim is to develop an attractive brand portfolio Developing strong, that meets consumers needs in each of our relevant brand portfolios 47% 15% markets.
In many markets, because the growth is fastest at the top end, weve been focusing in the local market international growth of growth in premium therefore on our international premium brands, Peroni Nastro Azzurro volume in Europe such as Peroni Nastro Azzurro and regional brands such as Kozel in Europe.
page 12 Good operational performance has always been Constantly raising a SABMiller strength.
While operational standards the performance of 12% 20 bp are already high we are continually pushing them higher as evidenced by growing EBITA and local businesses EBITA growth organic increase in group higher margins.
constant currency EBITA margin page 14 We are leveraging our global scale to grow the Leveraging our business.
Our business platform enables us, for global scale 18% 17% example, to distribute our international premium brands and build our regional brands.
In addition revenue CAGR for improvement in we are using our scale to transfer skills, methods the last three years overall equipment and technologies around the group, improving effectiveness at Miller over the last 4 years our operational performance and efficiency.
page 16 Basis points SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives review 8 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our Miller business in North America had and weve consolidated our position as has been introduced.
Were also extending another challenging year, with lager volumes the largest brewer by volume.
However, our reach into direct distribution and flat in terms of sales to retailers.
Results profitability remains low with price increases expanding our sales infrastructure.
suffered from higher commodity costs, offset by higher distribution costs, and by In summary declining Miller Lite volumes and price investments in marketing and in new The key to our success is the consistent, competition in the economy segment.
In India, were benefiting from disciplined application of our strategic Millers strategy, now, is to strengthen the moves to deregulate the beer industry and priorities and the knowledge, deeply brand portfolio and move it into areas of we are investing in new capacity to meet the embedded in our culture, that we must higher-margin growth while working more growth in demand.
constantly improve every element of our effectively with distributors, continuing to South Africa delivered good EBITA growth, business.
As we move forward, well drive down costs and restoring the growth with a 14% increase on a constant currency continue executing our strategy with the of Miller Lite.
Lager volumes grew by 2.3% driven same rigour and determination while The Africa and Asia business again by the premium category where volumes constantly analysing the global marketplace delivered good growth in volumes, revenue were up by 23%.
to ensure that our strategic priorities and EBITA.
Lager volumes for Africa, remain appropriate.
The termination of the licence to brew excluding Zimbabwe, grew 7% with Amstel in South Africa at the start of March particularly strong performances from 2007 did not affect sales volumes in the Mozambique, Tanzania and Uganda, offset Graham Mackay period and were responding vigorously to by a slowdown in Botswana.
As elsewhere, Chief Executive fill the gap in our portfolio.
Weve upgraded were driving growth by building full brand the appearance and packaging of our portfolios, developing distribution and point mainstream brands while also broadening of sale materials, and driving down costs.
Peroni Nastro Azzurro Asia continues to grow strongly.
On an has been launched in draught and a new organic basis, China volumes are up 30% local premium brand, Hanza Marzen Gold, The global brewing industry is expected to The group now operates on six continents and The principal risks facing continue to consolidate.
Should the group not it is essential to develop and retain a global the group, which have been participate in attractive value-adding transactions, management capability.
Failure to maintain this considered by the board, are this may inhibit its ability to leverage additional capability at a high level or maintain our effective scale benefits.
Whilst participation in global organisational leadership process which can detailed opposite.
The groups consolidation provides opportunities to access capture shared learnings and leverage global well developed risk management scale benefits, enter growth markets and achieve synergies and expertise, could jeopardise our process is detailed on pages benefits from the groups best operating practices, growth potential.
The groups approach to 39 and 40 of the Corporate there is the risk that expected benefits may not leveraging its global scale is detailed on pages be captured or may be inadequate, such that 16 and 17. governance section and our an appropriate return on capital is not achieved In many countries, regulatory constraints and financial risks are discussed over time.
The group has continued to make restrictions on alcohol products, including sales in note 22 to the consolidated significant progress during the period with regard and marketing activities, continue to be under to building a balanced and attractive global spread financial statements.
the spotlight, and management interacts with of businesses as set out on pages 10 and 11. the relevant authorities wherever appropriate.
The continued development of our marketing An increase in such impositions or in excise and growth of our international premium brand duties can have an adverse impact on our portfolio positions us well to benefit from changing business in those countries where such actions consumer preferences in both developed and may take place.
Details of the groups activities developing markets.
However, markets continue regarding responsible alcohol consumption can to evolve and competitor activity is increasing, and be found in the Sustainable development review should the group fail to ensure the relevance and on pages 30 to 33. attractiveness of its brands, and the enhancement of brand marketing, there is the risk that significant growth opportunities may not be realised.
The groups approach and progress this year in terms of developing strong, relevant brand portfolios in local markets is set out on pages 12 and 13.
Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 9
