Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information OPERATIONS REVIEW AFRICA AND ASIA the Sparks and Steel Reserve brands at mid Total revenue declined slightly by 1% versus Africa Africa and Asia and Asia year.
Domestic shipments to wholesalers the prior period, to US$4,887 million.
Financial summary 2007 2006 % STWs were in line with STRs in the period.
Contract brewing revenues declined by 13%, 1 Group revenue There was one less trading day in the year but increased marginally after adjusting for US$m 2,674 2,221 20 under review in comparison to the prior year.
the shift of Sparks and Steel Reserve from EBITA US$m 467 422 11 contract brewing to domestic brewing.
Total shipment volumes, excluding contract EBITA margin % 17.5 19.0 Domestic net revenue per hl increased 1.7%, brewing, declined by 1% as export sales Sales volumes driven by price increases of nearly 2%.
to non-SABMiller markets declined due to hl 000 : Improved brewery efficiencies and cost challenging trading conditions.
Contract Lager 68,067 50,956 34 savings partially offset very significant brewing volumes were lower by 13%, largely Lager organic 64,429 50,956 26 commodity cost increases, thereby limiting as a result of the acquisition of Sparks and CSDs 4,796 4,061 18 the increase in cost of goods per hectolitre Steel Reserve which Miller had previously Other beverages 15,137 13,093 16 sold to mid-single digits.
brewed under contract, and are down 4% 1 Includes share of associates revenue on an organic basis.
Miller strengthened its sales capabilities with Castel volumes of 15,407 hl 000 2006: 13,991 hl 000 lager, the addition of specialised sales staff for Miller Lite sales declined by 1% as the brand 9,424 hl 000 2006: 8,557 hl 000 CSDs, and 3,320 hl 000 Sparks and import brands.
Furthermore, 2006: 3,015 hl 000 other beverages are not included cycled strong prior year comparisons and in the fourth quarter, Miller announced plans faced broader competition in the low calorie to create new model markets in Texas and Key focus areas segment from import and craft entrants.
Florida Georgia in which it will deploy sales, Build brand portfolios of leading Miller Genuine Draft continued its decline marketing, planning strategy and finance mainstream and premium brands, broadly in line with the overall decline in the capabilities locally to better capture business and affordable branded alternatives full-calorie mainstream domestic segment.
Based on the learnings from Improve product availability with While Miller High Life sales decreased in low these initial markets, Miller intends to roll out capacity expansion and extended single digits, a new advertising campaign in this initiative to additional markets in the next distribution beyond major cities the third quarter helped drive positive trends fiscal year.
Invest to meet growing demand and in core markets by the end of the fourth EBITA for the period of US$375 million increase efficiency and productivity quarter.
Milwaukees Best franchise sales was 17% lower than the prior year, driven declined in mid-single digits due to pricing Capitalise on our market leadership primarily by higher input costs of fuel, glass dynamics within the economy segment.
position in China to further build Snow and, especially, aluminium.
Overall EBITA Miller High Life and Milwaukees Best trends as the countrys largest brand and margin decreased to 7.7% due mainly to were both negatively impacted by reduced enhance profitability the challenging input costs environment.
pricing gaps between the economy and Further build our operations across mainstream segments, both at the wholesale Going forward, Miller has set itself strategic India, Vietnam and Australia and retail level.
objectives of which the primary objective is to grow Miller Lite in the mainstream light Millers worthmore platform continues to grow segment.
Secondly it is to strengthen Millers robustly, led by Peroni and Leinenkugels, worthmore portfolio through expanding the Africa and Asia growth momentum continued both of which brands significantly distribution of Sparks, Leinenkugels and for the year, with lager volume growth of 34% outperformed their respective import and Peroni and adding Miller Chill, a new light organic growth of 26% and reported EBITA craft segments.
Sparks, which Miller acquired lager, and various South American brands.
growth of 11%, despite currency weakness in August 2006, continues to perform in some of the African countries.
Organic Miller also intends to maximise the sales and strongly as the leader in the fast-growing volume growth has been assisted by profitability of its legacy brands, whilst it is caffeinated alcohol beverage segment.
innovation, packaging upgrades and brand committed to delivering further operational renovation.
Whilst EBITA increased in Asia efficiencies, which include projects to deliver and in Africa, despite headwinds in savings of US$100 million by 2010, to Botswana, geographic EBITA mix in Africa reinvest into sales and marketing and combined with faster revenue growth in Asia improving margins.
resulted in a lower EBITA margin for the region, as had been anticipated.
Africa Lager volumes for Africa, excluding Zimbabwe, grew 7% for the year while growth in total volumes, excluding Zimbabwe, was 11%.
Continued economic growth in most countries, ongoing brand renovation and further improvements in distribution networks Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 27
