Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information OPERATIONS REVIEW EUROPE a premium price.
Poor 2006 barley and hop harvests Europe Europe Financial summary 2007 2006 % was impacted by competitive pricing and resulted in significantly increased malt and discounting in the market, with a shift in Revenue US$m 4,078 3,258 25 brewing costs in the final quarter, whilst mix to family packs tempering price gains.
EBITA US$m 733 569 29 skills shortages, and noticeable wage EBITA margin % 18.0 17.5 pressures, emerged across Central and The trading environment in El Salvador Sales volumes Eastern Europe.
showed signs of improvement compared hl 000 : with the prior year.
However the country In Poland, our volumes were up 13% and Lager 40,113 35,664 12 continues to attract high levels of market share increased by 1% to 39%.
Lager organic 39,641 35,664 11 competition in both lager and CSDs.
Industry growth was 10% owing to the Our operations performed strongly, with combined effects of the World Cup, In 2007 before net exceptional costs of US$24 million 2006: nil being profit on disposal in Italy of US$14 million less restructuring lager volume growth of 14% assisted by a warm summer and mild winter, a buoyant costs of US$7 million primarily in Slovakia and an adjustment to goodwill on acquisition of US$31 million for Birra Peroni good economic growth, and market share economy and growth in personal incomes.
Mix improved with our local The operation achieved a small real price Key focus areas premium brand, Golden Light, reporting increase, a trend improvement from prior growth of 36%.
Soft drinks volumes grew Continue to focus on superior years, while industry prices declined in by 5% with robust market share gains on real terms.
Tyskie and Zubr, Polands two execution to drive market share gains the back of above inflation price increases leading beer brands, grew volumes by Further develop premium brands in April 2006.
The benefit of better pricing 10% and 23% respectively, while our upper and the ongoing renovation of core in CSDs was somewhat reduced by mainstream brand Lech grew 9%.
In the mainstream brands adverse pack mix.
premium segment, our flavoured beer, Innovate across product, pack, and Redds, grew 42% with a new variant, Towards the end of the year, SABMiller display to capture value upgraded packaging, and a successful entered the Puerto Rico market with the Work with retailers to market to our repositioning of the range towards female launch of Peroni Nastro Azzurro in March consumers effectively at the point consumers contributing to growth in 2007.
The sale of our Costa Rica Pepsi soft of sale volumes.
Sales and distribution initiatives drink bottler was completed in April 2007.
Leverage our scale across procurement, have focused on increased product visibility, In line with the strategic initiatives and more chilled product availability and manufacturing, brand management plans for the region, a significant amount improving share of display within outlets.
and the transfer of knowledge and of restructuring and integration has been Marketing support has centred on enhanced best practice completed with one-time integration costs consumer and outlet segmentation and of US$64 million recorded during the year, shopper marketing techniques.
Current mostly related to packaging upgrades expansion of brewing and packaging will Europe again delivered excellent results, and organisational restructuring.
Capital increase annual capacity from 12.5 million with total lager volume growth of 12% investment levels will increase in the next hectolitres to 15 million hectolitres by July organic 11% and EBITA improving by year as we continue to implement our 2007, with the Tychy brewery having 29%.
Volumes were strong in Poland, restructuring plans.
Russia and Romania, while most other In the Czech Republic, volumes grew by operations outperformed their underlying 1% which was in line with the industry, and market growth.
Volume performance domestic volume share was stable at 49%.
was boosted by the favourable weather Our strategy to build value share continued, conditions which prevailed during the year, with our premium brands up by 2% overall including an exceptionally mild winter, while our economy brands declined by 8% generally buoyant economies and the soccer as we chose not to follow aggressive World Cup.
Direct marketing investment competitor price discounting in this segment.
grew in line with revenue while productivity Pilsner Urquell grew by 4% and exceeded was up 6%, reflecting improved scale 1 million hectolitres for the first time.
EBITA margin enhancement of performance was achieved by expanding 50 basis points was assisted by positive our presence in the on-premise channel, as brand mix, with premium brands growing 15%.
well as the launch of new packaging and a Reported EBITA growth of 29% was focus on shopper marketing in large format enhanced by strong currencies, with organic supermarkets.
Volumes of our leading constant currency growth of 19%.
During Czech brand Gambrinus 26% market share the second half, margins tightened with declined in the on-premise channel following a move to non-returnable packaging, a price increase.
However, off-premise particularly cans, where volumes were up growth was strong, supported by new Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 25
