THE GLOBAL BEER MARKET A view from an industry consultant Key trends: Growth in emerging markets Increasing popularity of premium brands Industry consolidating Challenging conditions in local markets Emerging markets More and broader industry consolidation Perhaps the most important trend to have shaped the global Given these trends in consumer behaviour, the brewing industry brewing business over the last decade is that volume growth has has been consolidating to secure brands and national positions.
primarily come from emerging markets.
Since 2000, the compound International brewers have also been investing for further growth, annual growth rate CAGR has been 2.8% for the global beer particularly in new and developing markets such as China, Latin market.
The same period, however, has seen CAGRs of 5.1% in America and Russia.
The past five years have seen a steady flow Asia, 3.9% in Africa and the Middle East, and a substantial 6.2% of mergers and acquisitions, with the bigger brewers the busiest.
Over this period, the top 20 brewers have been involved in more than 280 deals with a total transaction value of over US$80 billion.
This trend is likely to continue.
Between 2006 and 2011, the most Activity has been particularly heated in emerging markets where significant overall volume growth is likely to come from Asia 115 most of the brewers have made investments.
million hectolitres, Central and South America 41 million hectolitres and Eastern Europe 41 million hectolitres, rewarding brewers with All this has led to increasing globalisation, with the top 20 brewers strong footprints in emerging markets chart 1. now averaging 53% of sales from outside their traditional home markets, compared with just 33% in 2001.
Looking ahead, further Consumers trading up consolidation is expected as companies seek to broaden their Economic growth and rising disposable incomes are encouraging global footprints in order to chase enhanced growth from emerging consumers in some markets to trade up into the beer category away markets.
There is clearly room for further moves as, despite recent from cheaper, traditional, local spirits and non commercially brewed activity, the beer industry remains relatively fragmented, with the five beer.
Brewers are nurturing this trend by offering more appealing and largest companies accounting for 38% of the market compared affordable products.
In addition to those trading up into commercially with 75% in carbonated soft drinks.
produced beer, there is much trading up within the beer category as consumers choose premium brands more frequently chart 2.
More challenging times in local markets Looking ahead, we expect competition will get fiercer at a local For example, in developed markets such as the USA, imported level, as global businesses compete head to head.
At the same premium brands have achieved a CAGR of 6.0% over the last five time, the retail trade is becoming increasingly sophisticated across years, and this contrasts with negative growth in US domestic markets as grocery modernises in emerging markets like China and brands.
Similarly in many less developed markets in Eastern Europe Russia, and continues to consolidate in many developed markets.
and Russia, international brands are growing by up to 30 percentage The likely implications will be that access to distribution routes will points faster than local brands.
become more ubiquitous, brand scale will become increasingly Against this backdrop, brewers who can offer full and varied brand critical to driving availability, and customer management skills will portfolios, with brands differentiated by functional benefits intrinsics become more important.
and emotional benefits extrinsics across a range of price segments, This trading environment will reward brewers who have the right are more likely to retain or increase their market share.
brands, who are strong at local market execution and are able to leverage effectively their global scale and scope.
Data sourced from: Dealogics and Canadean 2006 2007 1.
Global industry premium volumes between 2006 and 2011 m hI 281 300 237 Middle East and Africa 6.0% 250 197 Central and South America 19.5% 200 166 Asia 55.0% 147 150 East Europe 19.5% 100 Total premium 50 Overall volume growth between 2006 and 2011 is expected to be approximately 210 m hl 95 00 05 10 15 forecast Data sourced from: Canadean Global Beer Trends 2006 Data sourced from: Plato Logic 2007 The entire content of this section has been contributed by, and reflects the views of, a leading industry consultant.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 The global beer market 6
