OPERATIONS REVIEW NORTH AMERICA primary and secondary packaging, the marketing position focused on Italian style North North America America introduction of new multipacks, and brand and design.
The Peroni brand accelerated Financial summary 2007 2006 % sponsorship of the Czech national soccer to 6% growth from the 2% posted last year, Revenue US$m 4,887 4,912 1 team during the World Cup.
Kozel grew by supported by a successful draught launch EBITA US$m 375 454 17 10% in the domestic market, following the in the Northern provinces.
Exports of Peroni EBITA margin % 7.7 9.3 introduction of a new proprietary bottle, new Nastro Azzurro continued their strong Sales volumes labelling and a new variant.
The operation has recorded hl 000 : and Eastern Europe, Kozel is now marketed a solid improvement in profitability.
Lager excluding and sold in several of our countries and total In Romania, industry volume growth is contract brewing 46,591 47,059 1 volumes were up 17% to 2.5 million estimated at 20%, led by the continuing Contract brewing 8,907 10,246 13 hectolitres.
Exports to the key German performance of mainstream PET.
Our CSDs 84 74 13 market were well up with Pilsner Urquell operation was capacity constrained during STRs 43,897 43,964 growing by 31% and now established as the the first half of the year but nevertheless leading premium imported beer in the offgrew full year volumes by 23% and year-onpremise channel.
Price increases marginally Key focus areas year market share rose by 60 basis points to ahead of inflation were achieved, largely in Grow Miller Lite share of the 22%, driven by second-half volume growth the on-premise channel.
Our premium brand Ursus grew by In Russia, volumes ended 24% up on prior 16%.
Our mainstream Timisoreana Lux brand Strengthen our worthmore year, well ahead of the market growth of 17%.
grew by 59% and was the strongest growing brand portfolio Price increases of 5% were achieved against brand in the market, assisted by the newly Maximise value of our heritage generally restrained industry pricing, and our launched two litre PET pack.
Industry pricing and legacy brands national value share continued to increase.
Following from the strong Improve influence with key We significantly increased our investment in growth of recent years, capacity is being distributors coolers and extended retail coverage by expanded from 4.3 million hectolitres to Reduce operating costs 25%.
Miller Genuine Draft returned to robust 6.3 million hectolitres over the next 18 months.
Empower the organisation to growth, with volumes up 21% and a new In Hungary, our volumes grew by 7% and pursue opportunities with a half-litre bottle driving new consumption outperformed the market.
This performance challenger mindset occasions.
Zolotaya Bochka, the fastest was achieved against a backdrop of growing local premium brand, was up 40% significant fiscal austerity measures with the launch of a twist-off crown, and impacting consumers, a 20% excise Pilsner Urquell and Redds both grew strongly.
Miller Brewing Company experienced Our marketing effort now includes nona difficult year, with significantly higher traditional media, with the use of internet In Slovakia, the major focus has been the commodity costs, declining Miller Lite based marketing techniques.
Profitability was integration of Topvar, which was completed volume and price competition in the improved by considerable operating leverage.
Organic growth economy segment negatively impacting The expansion of our Kaluga brewery to of our brands was broadly in line with the results.
However, in line with its strategy, 6 million hectolitres continued on schedule market which was up by an estimated 2% the company continued to migrate its brand and in March 2007 we announced a new as it begins to exhibit signs of recovery from portfolio to higher margin segments, deliver 3 million hectolitre brewery to be constructed the major excise rises of recent years.
domestic revenue increases, and invest in its for US$170 million in Ulyanovsk, 1,000 km In the Canaries, our international brands core brands and organisational capabilities in east of Moscow.
gained almost 3% while profits were boosted order to drive sustainable, long-term growth.
In Italy, the beer market grew by an by the distribution of Red Bull and the As the US beer industry continued to feel the estimated 3%, benefiting from some introduction of Appletiser, alongside the impact of consumers trading into wine and improvement in economic performance, existing Compal range of juices.
spirits, volume performance of mainstream increased consumption during the World In its first full year of operation, Miller Brands domestic beers was outpaced by import Cup and a mild winter.
Excluding imports, UK has exceeded our expectations, with and craft brands.
Total US industry domestic domestic industry production was up 1%, volumes and revenues ahead of plan.
Peroni shipment volumes decreased by 0.4% while Birra Peronis total volume growth Nastro Azzurro, supported by innovative during the financial year, while imports was 2%, with branded domestic volumes marketing and increased distribution, has increased 13.1%.
5% higher than last year and private label grown 36%.
The prior year decline in Miller declining by 28%, as we continued our In this trading environment, Millers US Genuine Draft has been halted, and Pilsner managed reduction in our presence in this domestic sales to retailers STRs were level Urquell has been successfully repositioned.
Nastro Azzurro was up 9% with with the prior year and down 3% on an In February 2007, the two key Polish brands premiumisation of the brand continuing organic basis, excluding the acquisition of Tyskie and Lech were added to the portfolio through key prestige sponsorships and a and are growing strongly.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Operations review 26
