Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in submitting their report to shareholders, YinYan Brewery was US$50.2 million while the total investment cost together with the audited annual financial statements for the year of the Xiangwang Brewery was US$17.4 million, when additional ended 31 March 2007. intended investment is taken into account.
The Zhejiang YinYan acquisition completed in August and the Anhui HuaiBei acquisition Principal activities and business review completed in September 2006.
SABMiller plc is a holding company which has brewing and beverage interests in more than 60 countries across six continents.
The In August 2006 the company announced that it had entered into an principal subsidiaries and associates of the company are listed on agreement to acquire a 100% interest in the Fosters operation and pages 124 to 126 of this annual report.
The principal activities of brand in India.
The transaction completed in September 2006 at a the group are the manufacture, distribution and sale of beverages.
The company is required by the Companies Act 1985 to produce In the same month the company also announced it had entered into a fair review of the business of the group including a description a joint venture with Coca-Cola Amatil to import, market and distribute of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, its development and the groups international premium brands in Australia through a joint performance during the year and the position of the group at the venture company, Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd.
This joint venture end of the year.
The business review, including a review of the commenced operations in December 2006. development and performance of the group during the financial year, Also in August the company announced that to keep pace with its position at the end of the year, likely future developments in the growing demand, its Colombian subsidiary, Bavaria S. A. would business of the group, key performance indicators and a description invest US$175 million in a new brewery in Yumbo, western of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, is set out on Colombia.
The cost of the investment was subsequently increased pages 4 to 29 of this annual report.
Other key performance indicators to US$230 million to give the new brewery, which will become and matters relating to environmental and employee matters required operational in late 2007, an initial capacity of 3.5 million hectolitres, by the business review are set out in the sustainable development increasing to 4.5 million hectolitres by 2009. review on pages 30 to 33 of this annual report.
In the same month, the companys Peruvian subsidiary, UCP Backus Significant acquisitions, disposals, financing transactions, & Johnston S. A.
A. Backus announced that it would invest investments and material developments during the year.
US$102 million in March 2007 in infrastructure projects in Peru.
In April 2006 the company announced that its South African subsidiary, The South African Breweries Limited SAB Ltd, had In October 2006 the company launched a US commercial paper finalised the sale of 40% of its bottle top manufacturer, Coleus programme with a nominal value of up to US$1bn to provide Packaging Pty Limited, to the Nokusa Consortium in a Black the company with a new flexible and cost effective source of Economic Empowerment transaction.
In June 2006 the company announced that its Colombian subsidiary, In November 2006 the company announced it was making Bavaria S. A. had entered into an agreement to sell its fruit juice simultaneous offers on the Lima Stock Exchange for all the voting business to the Colombian beverage company Postobn S. A. for shares which it did not already own in its listed Peruvian subsidiaries, US$55.3 million.
Following receipt of the required merger clearance, Backus, Cervecera San Juan S. A.
A. Compaia Cervecera del Sur the transaction completed in May 2007. del Peru S. A.
A, Industrias del Envase S. A. Inmobiliaria Pariachi S. A. and Vidrios Planis del Peru S. A.
Following this and further corporate In July 2006 the company announced that it had entered into an restructuring, the companys effective economic interest in Backus agreement to acquire the Sparks and Steel Reserve brands from increased to approximately 93.3%.
the McKenzie River Corporation for US$215 million.
The acquisition completed in August 2006.
Also in November the company announced that its Polish subsidiary Kompania Piwowarska would invest up to US$100 million in an Also in July the company announced the successful completion of a upgrade of its three breweries.
The majority of the investment will US$1.75 billion bond issue, issued in three tranches: US$300 million be in the Tychy brewery near Krakow in Silesia, where production of three-year floating rate notes: US$600 million of five-year notes capacity will be increased to serve growing demand for the Tyskie with a coupon of 6.20%: and US$850 million of ten-year notes with brand.
Following the investment, the Tychy brewery will be the a coupon of 6.50%.
groups largest European facility, capable of producing over eight China Resources Snow Breweries Limited CR Snow, an associate million hectolitres or 1.4 billion pints annually, equating to 16% of of the company and a subsidiary of China Resources Enterprise, SABMillers total European brewing capacity.
The groups total Limited, announced in July 2006 that it had agreed to acquire a brewing capacity in Poland will rise from 12.5 million hectolitres 100% equity interest in Zhejiang YinYan Brewery Company Limited to 15 million hectolitres.
for US$42.3 million and in addition agreed to acquire the brewing related assets of the Anhui HuaiBei Xiangwang Brewery Company Limited for a consideration of US$10.1 million.
Including net debt and intended additional investment, the total investment cost of the Directors report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 45 In December 2006, CR Snow announced that it had agreed to acquire Approval of the final dividend will be sought from shareholders at the brewing assets of Shanxi YueShan Brewery Company Limited the companys annual general meeting on 31 July 2007.
If approved, YueShan Brewery for a cash consideration of US$17.7 million, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on either section of and the brewing assets of the Inner Mongolia MengYuan Fine Wine & the register at 13 July 2007 in the following way: Brewery Company Limited MengYuan Brewery for a consideration of US$4.7 million.
Both acquisitions completed in February 2007. Dividend payable on: 7 August 2007 Also in December the company announced the results of Currency of payment: South African rand to simultaneous tender offers in relation to its listed Ecuadorian shareholders on the RSA section subsidiaries, Compania fide Cervezas Nacionales C. A. CCN and of the register, Cervecera Andina S. A. Andina, and its unlisted Ecuadorian US dollars to shareholders subsidiary Agrilsa Agricola e Industrial S. A. Agrilsa.
For a shown as having an address in consideration of approximately US$54 million paid to non-SABMiller the USA and recorded on the shareholders, the companys effective interest increased to UK section of the register unless approximately 97% in CCN, 86% in Andina and 97% in Agrilsa.
mandated otherwise, In January 2007 CR Snow announced it had agreed to acquire, at a Pounds sterling to all other cost of US$320 million, the 38% equity interest that it did not already shareholders on the UK section own in the 14 Blue Sword breweries based in the Sichuan province of the register.
The acquisition completed in April 2007.
Ex-dividend dates: 9 July 2007 for shares traded on In January the company also announced that in addition to the the JSE Limited, South Africa.
investments announced in August 2006, it would be investing approximately US$1.5 billion in its South American operations 11 July 2007 for shares traded on over the next five years.
The investment will finance upgrades to the London Stock Exchange LSE, the groups brewing capacity: point of sale improvements: the Dates on which the rate of development of route to market networks: and new packaging, which exchange for conversion from forms part of a brand renovation programme to enhance the appeal US dollars will be calculated of the groups beers to a broader base of consumers and across a with the dates of publication wider range of drinking occasions.
on the RNS of the LSE and In March 2007 the company announced that SAB Ltd had been the SENS of the JSE Limited given notice by Heineken that it had terminated SAB Ltds licence in brackets : to manufacture and distribute Amstel lager in South Africa with South African Rand: 28 June 2007 29 June 2007 immediate effect.
UK Pounds Sterling: 17 July 2007 18 July 2007 Also in March the company announced that its subsidiary, Cervecera Nacional S. A. the leading beer and soft drinks manufacturer and Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements discloses dividends distributor in Panama, had agreed to sell its Pepsi bottling operations waived.
in Costa Rica to a subsidiary of Florida Ice and Farm Company S. A. a listed beverage company in Costa Rica, together with a 42.5% Directors interest in a hotel and real estate development in the north-west of The names and biographical details of the current directors are set Costa Rica, for a total cash consideration of US$116 million.
With the exception of Mr Devitre who was sales were completed by the end of April 2007. appointed to the Board on 16 May 2007, all directors served throughout the period.
Ms Nancy fide Lisi also held office throughout In a further announcement in March the company announced that its the period, retiring on 30 April 2007.
Details of the interests in shares Russian business would invest approximately US$170 million in the and or options of the directors who served throughout the period are construction of a new brewery outside the city of Ulyanovsk, which set out in the remuneration report on pages 48 to 57. is located approximately 1,000 kilometres east of Moscow, on the Volga river.
Ulyanovsk enjoys good road and rail links and is home to Corporate governance a number of raw material suppliers.
The new brewery, which will have The directors continue to be committed to maintaining high an initial capacity of three million hectolitres, is expected to be standards of corporate governance, which they see as fundamental operational in early 2009 and will complement the groups existing to discharging their stewardship responsibilities.
The board strives brewery in Kaluga, which is located some 180 kilometres south to provide the right leadership, strategic oversight and control west of Moscow.
environment to produce and sustain delivery of value to all of the companys shareholders, the majority of whom are resident in the Dividends USA, South Africa and the UK.
The board applies integrity, principles An interim dividend of 14 US cents per share was paid to of good governance and accountability throughout its activities and shareholders on 22 December 2006, in respect of the year ended each director brings independence of character and judgement to 31 March 2007.
Details of the final dividend proposed by the board the role.
All of the members of the board are individually and for the year ended 31 March 2007 are set out below: collectively aware of their responsibilities to the companys stakeholders.
Statements of our application of the Combined Code Amount of final dividend 36 US cents per share on Corporate Governance are in the corporate governance report proposed by the board: on pages 34 to 41 and the directors remuneration report on pages Total proposed dividend for the 50 US cents per share 48 to 57. year ended 31 March 2007: Share capital During the year, the issued ordinary share capital of the company increased from 1,497,844,458 shares of 10 US cents each to 1,502,187,446 shares of 10 US cents each.
4,342,988 new ordinary shares were issued to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the SABMiller plc Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme, the SABMiller plc Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, the SABMiller plc Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme and the SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Directors report 46 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In addition, the company has 77,368,338 non-voting convertible Research and development participating shares of 10 US cents each and 50,000 deferred shares The group continues to invest in research and development of 1 each in issue.
No non-voting convertible participating shares, leading to new products, packages and processes, as well as convertible participating shares or deferred shares were issued new manufacturing technologies to improve overall operational during the year.
The groups upstream scientific research continues to yield solid progress in brewing, raw materials, flavour stability, Purchase of own shares packaging materials and environmental performances.
During the At the last annual general meeting, shareholder authority was year under review, the aggregate amount spent by the group on obtained for the company to purchase its own shares up to a research and development was US$6 million 2006: US$8 million.
maximum of 10% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on 17 May 2006.
This authority is due to expire at the earlier of the next Payment of suppliers annual general meeting or 28 October 2007, and remains exercisable The groups policy is to pay invoices in accordance with the terms provided that certain conditions relating to the purchase are met.
of payment agreed in advance.
At the year end, the amount owed by the group to trade creditors was equivalent to 60.9 days 2006: The notice of annual general meeting proposes that shareholders 49.1days of purchases from suppliers.
approve a resolution updating and renewing the authority allowing the company to purchase its own shares.
Overseas branches The company does not have any branches registered overseas.
Shares in the company were purchased during the year by the trustee of the companys employee benefit trust, details of which Going concern and audit are provided in the directors remuneration report.
The company did Page 58 details the directors responsibilities for preparing the not repurchase any of its shares during the year for the purpose of consolidated financial statements.
As set out in that statement the cancellation, holding in treasury or for any other purpose.
directors are satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern.
Annual general meeting So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of The companys annual general meeting for 2007 will be held at the which the groups auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all InterContinental London Park Lane, One Hamilton Place, London, the steps necessary that he or she ought to have taken as a director in W1V 7QY, UK at 11:00 am on Tuesday 31 July 2007.
Notice of order to make himself or herself aware of the relevant audit information this meeting may be obtained from the companys website.
and to establish that the groups auditors are aware of that information.
Donations  LLP have expressed their willingness During the year the group invested US$26 million in corporate social to continue in office as auditors and resolutions proposing their investment programmes, of which US$1,763,000 represented re-appointment and authorising the board to set their remuneration charitable donations.
Of this amount US$551,294 were charitable will be submitted to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
donations made by the company and Miller Brands UK Limited for Directors indemnities the benefit of various causes, both in the UK and overseas, comprising The company has granted rolling indemnities to the directors, donations in respect of community development, health and uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which education, the environment and other causes.
they may incur in the course of acting as directors of the company It remains the groups policy that political donations are only made by or of one or more of its subsidiaries.
The Company Secretary and exception, and where permitted by local laws, and must be consistent Deputy Company Secretary have also been granted indemnities, on with building multi-party democracy.
After careful consideration the similar terms, covering their roles as Company Secretary and Deputy following political donations were made during the year.
Company Secretary respectively of the company and as directors or as company secretary of one or more of the companys subsidiaries.
Miller Brewing Company made contributions to individual candidates The board believes that it is in the best interests of the group to for political office and to party committees in the USA, where permitted attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced by applicable campaign finance laws.
Political donations in the USA directors and officers by offering competitive terms of engagement, are an accepted part of the local socio-political environment.
These including the granting of such indemnities.
contributions amounted to US$671,655 in aggregate.
The indemnities are categorised as qualifying third-party indemnities The groups subsidiary in Colombia made donations to political parties for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985 and will continue in of US$11,750.
The donations were made to a number of parties who force for the benefit of directors and officers for as long as they expressed support for the multi-party democratic process.
A US$13,000 contribution was made in connection with the elections Substantial shareholdings in the Comoros Islands.
Details of notifications received by the company in accordance The board has reaffirmed the groups policy not to make donations with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 25 May 2007 are to political organisations in the European Union.
set out in the ordinary shareholding analyses on page 142 of this annual report.
Employment policies The aim of the group is to be the employer of choice in each Financial Instruments country in which it operates.
In order to achieve this, each operating Information on the financial risk management objectives and policies company designs employment policies which attract, retain and of the group are contained in Note 22 to the consolidated financial motivate the highest quality of staff.
The group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy from recruitment and selection, through training and development, John Davidson appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Within the constraints of General Counsel and Group Company Secretary local law, it is our policy to ensure that everyone is treated equally, For and on behalf of the board of regardless of gender, colour, national origin, race, disability, marital SABMiller plc status, sexual orientation, religion or trade union affiliation.
4 June 2007 Directors report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 47
