Our strategic priorities Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios in the local market In every market, the consumers choice of beer is influenced by a advantage in our market mapping system a formal process for range of needs and preferences.
Consumers may make different identifying the main clusters of consumer preference in any given choices according to the occasion or the type of outlet that they are market and comparing these with the brands currently on offer.
in, be it a bar, a restaurant or a nightclub.
In some cases, the choice What we often find in new markets is that some consumer needs are of beer is an aspirational statement: in others, it affirms the drinkers ignored while others are over-served by too many undifferentiated identity.
Some consumers associate beer with wind-up occasions brands.
We then begin the process of adjusting the portfolio to span such as parties, others with winding down at the end of a days the market.
This may mean refreshing and repositioning our brands, work.
Older, more traditional drinkers will have different habits to importing brands from elsewhere, adding innovation to existing younger, more experimental consumers.
brands or creating new brands altogether.
For these reasons, its no longer sufficient for a successful brewer just In many markets, the fastest-growing demand is for premium beers.
to do well in the mainstream segment.
To maximise our profits in each To strengthen our offering, weve refreshed some of our local premium market, we need a portfolio of brands that spans consumers needs on beers such as Zolotaya Bochka in Russia and Club Colombia in South different occasions and across the spectrum from premium to economy.
At the same time, weve responded to the rapid growth of As we seek to understand consumer preferences and create brand international premium brands by launching Peroni Nastro Azzurro, portfolios that are relevant and appealing, we have a strong competitive Miller Genuine Draft and Pilsner Urquell in more markets.
Refining the portfolio in Colombia consumer segment rather than trying to cater for all consumers in The South American markets which we entered in 2005 presented its own geographical region.
These brands are also being refreshed an opportunity to apply knowledge and techniques that were well and renovated with new packaging and better presentation.
In the proven in other parts of the world.
In Colombia, for example, premium segment, we introduced Peroni Nastro Azzurro at a highresearch into drinking patterns showed that beer was not seen profile launch in one of the countrys most exclusive venues.
We as aspirational a perception reinforced by shabby bottles and refocused Brava and relaunched the local brand, Club Colombia, unappealing surroundings.
When we completed our market with new packaging, improved taste, and endorsements from mapping, comparing the main areas of consumer needs to the Colombian celebrities.
Most recently we added Barena, aimed at existing portfolio, we found a lot of brands clustered together in consumers in the status and rumba segments.
In these ways, the mainstream segment and nothing of any appeal to the weve not only laid claim to the premium segment but hope to have premium or party segment or to women.
raised consumers perception of the beer category as a whole.
These results determined our plan of action.
In the mainstream We are pleased with the results to date, with lager volumes for segment, we prised apart the three overlapping brands of Aguila, the year growing in Colombia by 11% on a pro forma basis.
Pilsen and Poker so that each addressed a distinct national Aguila, the number one selling lager brand in Colombia.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives review For more information on our India operations, visit 12 www.
com en gb Our business Our markets Africa and Asia India Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Economy Mainstream Premium Strong relevant local brand portfolios USA In each market we build a portfolio of brands that span consumer needs on different occasions and across the Poland spectrum of the economy, mainstream, and premium segments.
The Polish business recently introduced new One of SABMillers answers is the Eagle brand, available in Uganda, packaging for its fruit-flavoured Redds brand, along with new Zambia, Zimbabwe and Tanzania.
The innovation in this case is to variants in the form of Redds Red and Redds Sun.
In Russia, Redds make the beer from locally grown sorghum rather than imported raw has been given a further twist to take it out of the exclusively male materials.
This creates a cash crop opportunity for local farmers, domain and make it attractive to women.
Innovation also extends which in turn encourages tax breaks from governments and this to the way beers are served.
In Europe, stylish new dispensers for feeds through into a cheaper selling price.
Eagle is now our second Peroni Nastro Azzurro have helped to reposition the brand in bars largest pan-African brand.
Between the premium and economy segments lies the mainstream While our European operations are adding excitement and choice market.
This still accounts for the bulk of our sales around the at the premium end of the market, affordability considerations are world, so its vital to keep our core brands refreshed, attractive and more pressing in Africa.
While the trend among sophisticated, appealing.
We continue to work on our mainstream brands across urban drinkers is towards premium brands such as Castle, there our business with the emphasis on better packaging, stronger are large numbers of subsistence-level consumers who currently positioning and clearer differentiation.
drink home-brewed alcohol but would like to upgrade to affordable, branded alternatives.
Miller taps the global portfolio A feature of the US market this year has been the growing interest in worthmore beers, both local and imported.
Miller Brewing Company has exploited this opportunity through brand acquisitions, product innovation and by leveraging SABMillers global brand portfolio.
Among other moves, Miller has expanded distribution from its Leinenkugel brewery and purchased the Sparks brand, a caffeinated alcohol beverage.
By way of innovation, it has launched new beer flavours such as Leinenkugel Sunset Wheat and Miller Chill, a Mexican-inspired, chelada-style light beer.
A national roll-out of Miller Chill is now under-way.
Miller has also been able to fill some of the gaps in its offering by selecting from the 200 brands in the wider group portfolio a resource that many of its competitors simply do not have.
Alongside the very successful Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller is introducing Aguila from Colombia, and Cristal and Cusquea from Peru.
Innovation in South Africa In common with other markets, South Africa is seeing tremendous growth in the premium sector.
Some of the greatest successes are in the flavoured alcoholic drinks particularly popular with women.
In order to compete better in these upmarket segments, SAB Ltd introduced Lavacious Lemon, a variant of its Brutal Fruit range, in September 2006.
At the same time it also launched Sarita, an apple-flavoured ale in an attractively shaped bottle with an innovative, ring-pull cap.
Sales have exceeded expectations and were gearing up production to meet demand.
Sarita advertisement campaign launched in September 2006.
Miller Chill, Mexican inspired, Chelada style beer.
For more information on our South Africa operation, visit Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 13 www.
com en gb Our business Our markets South Africa
