GLOBAL North America FOOTPRINT Over the past 20 years we have grown rapidly Latin America Colombia from our original South African base into a global Ecuador operation, developing a balanced and attractive El Salvador Honduras portfolio of businesses.
Our markets range from Panama Peru developed economies such as North America to fast growing developing markets such as China and India.
25% 20% 10% EBITA 2007 EBITA 2007 EBITA 2007 Europe North America Latin America Our primary brewing operations cover eight Miller Brewing Company is the second largest Our primary brewing and beverage countries.
These are the Canary Islands brewer in the US market the beer market operations cover six countries.
These Spain, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, with the worlds biggest profit pool.
Through are Colombia, El Salvador, Ecuador, Poland, Romania, Russia and Slovakia.
more than 150 years of innovation and Honduras, Panama and Peru.
We are the In the majority of these countries we are brewing excellence, Miller has built a portfolio number one brewer, in terms of market the number one or two brewer.
of award-winning beers and now owns share, in each of these countries.
the fast growing premium Sparks brand.
We also have significant import businesses We bottle soft drinks for The Coca-Cola in the UK and Germany where we import Miller has licensed production in Canada Company in El Salvador and Honduras.
We have recently entered the Puerto Rico market with our international premium Total number of breweries 19 Total number of breweries 8 beer brands.
Total average number of employees 12,017 Total average number of employees 5,889 Key local lager brands include: Arany Key local lager brands include: Miller Lite: Total number of breweries 17 Aszok: Debowe Mocne: Dorada: Dreher: Miller Genuine Draft: Miller High Life: Total number of bottling plants 14 Gambrinus: Kozel: Lech: Moya Kaluga: Milwaukees Best and Leinenkugels Total average number of employees 26,394 Nastro Azzurro: Pilsner Urquell: Peroni: For more information see pages 26-27 Key local lager brands include: Aguila: Saris : Radegast: Timisoreana Lux: Topvar: Atlas: Balboa: Barena: Cristal: Club: Club Tropical: Tyskie: Ursus: Zolotaya Bochka Colombia: Costea: Cusquea: Pilsen and Zubr Callao: Golden Light: Pilsen: Poker: For more information see pages 25-26 Pilsener: Port Royal and Salva Vida For more information see pages 24-25 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Global footprint For more information on our businesses, visit 2 www.
com en gb Our business Our markets Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Europe Czech Republic 200 Hungary More than 200 brands owned Italy Poland Romania Russia Slovakia 127 Canary Islands UK Total number of breweries Africa and Asia 67,000 Angola Tanzania Botswana Uganda Total average number Comoros Zambia of employees Ghana Zimbabwe Lesotho Malawi Australia Mayotte China Mozambique India 216 million Swaziland Vietnam Total volume of lager sold hectolitres South Africa Denotes regions where SABMiller operates, or has a major distribution agreement over 100,000 hectolitres or recent start-up operations Denotes regions covered by our strategic partner Castel 33% 12% EBITA 2007 EBITA 2007 Africa and Asia South Africa In Africa, our primary brewing and beverage South African Breweries Ltd SAB Ltd is our Total number of breweries 76 operations cover 31 countries and we are original brewing company.
Founded in 1895, Total number of bottling plants 17 the number one brewer in terms of market SAB Ltd has since become one of South Total average number of employees 11,028 share in most of these countries.
In 12 Africas leading companies as well as Africas of these countries we have management Key lager brands include: 2M: Castle: largest brewer.
The soft drinks division of control, while in the others we have a Castle Milk Stout: Chibuku sorghum : SAB Ltd is South Africas largest producer of strategic alliance with Castel and a minority Club: Club Pilsner: Eagle clear sorghum : products for The Coca-Cola Company.
shareholding in Kenya and Zimbabwe.
Fosters: Haywards: Laurentina: Kilimanjaro: SABMiller has hotel and gaming interests We bottle soft drinks for The Coca-Cola Manica: Mosi: Nduvo: Ngola: Nile Special: through the Tsogo Sun Group, one of the Company in seven of our African markets.
Royal Challenge: Safari: Snow: Stone: largest hotel and gaming groups in South St Louis and Zorok CR Snow, our partnership with China Africa.
The group was created in 2003 when Resources Enterprise Limited, is the largest For more information see pages 27-28 SABMiller and Tsogo Investments merged brewer by volume in China, and we are the their activities.
At the time, it was the largest second largest brewer in India.
We have a empowerment transaction in the sector and joint venture in Vietnam with Vinamilk and SABMiller holds a 49% interest in the group.
we also sell our premium brands in Australia through a joint venture with Coca-Cola Amatil.
Total number of breweries 7 Total number of bottling plants 10 Total average number of employees 11,400 Key local brands include: Brutal Fruit: Carling Black Label: Castle: Castle Lite: Castle Milk Stout: Hansa Marzen Gold: Hansa Pilsener: Redds and Sarita See note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Volumes are defined in the Definitions section on page 140.
For more information see pages 28-29 For more information on our brands, visit Global footprint SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 3 www.
