Our strategic priorities Leveraging our global scale With a presence in more than 60 countries, we aim to use our scale particular beers from our global portfolio and apply them in their to generate maximum value and competitive advantage for the own markets as Miller is doing with a number of our Latin American group.
We also intend that each operation should benefit fully from brands.
Also, our global scale allows us to share brand innovation.
the skills, resources and experience of SABMiller as a whole.
Redds, for example, originated in South Africa, moved to Poland, where it benefited from further innovation, and is now doing well Beer tends to be a local business, subject to local tastes and in Russia.
Leveraging scale, therefore, is not simply a case of putting two or more businesses together and saving costs.
While some such The second way we use our scale to help us grow is by transferring synergies are possible, the real benefits arise in driving sales using skills, methods and technologies around the group.
This clearly our scale to grow the business.
applies when we buy a new business.
In South America, for instance, the rigorous application of SABMiller tools and techniques, and the Scale helps us, first of all, to develop our brands.
Our global reach infusion of talent from around the group, is generating tremendous provides a valuable platform for distributing and selling our growth and transforming the beer market in the region.
international premium brands Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller Genuine Draft and Pilsner Urquell.
It also helps as we develop regional brands But the transfer of skills is not confined to new acquisitions.
Weve such as Kozel in Europe and Eagle in Africa.
In addition, with 200 examined those elements of our management and processes that brands available, its possible for individual businesses to select have made us successful and codified them to ensure they are Italian style takes on the world When SABMiller bought Birra Peroni in 2003, it acquired not just a same positioning and communications.
Capitalising on our global well established business in Italy but a brand with global potential.
footprint, the brand has now been launched with appropriate style Research showed that Italy and all things Italian were admired in ten new countries including the UK, the USA, South Africa and around the world, embodying both passion and effortless style.
And with international premium beers growing faster than any Like other international premium brands, Peroni Nastro Azzurro is other segment, we believed that Peronis premium brand, being seeded and nurtured carefully.
Weve seen growth of 47% Nastro Azzurro, could become a strong international contender.
in the period, albeit from a low base.
Peroni Nastro Azzurro was repackaged and relaunched with an elegant new design.
Aimed at upmarket consumers, the communication campaign strikes the stylish Italian note that is known to resonate with the target audience.
Such is the strength of the concept that each national launch has been able to use the Peroni Nastro Azzurro, one of our international premium brands.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives review For more information on our Europe operations, visit 16 www.
com en gb Our business Our markets Europe Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information This map highlights Kozels expansion across our Europe market.
25 markets Denotes countries where We export Kozel to over 25 markets Kozel is brewed in Europe and beyond Denotes Kozels export markets 27% growth rate Kozel is now our fourth largest brand in Europe, with a compound annual growth rate of over 27% in the last five years transferable.
The result is a series of SABMiller Ways that set out Our Europe division, for example, has been buying malt on a regional how we do things in key areas of our business.
This knowledge is basis rather than country by country for a number of years and made not static but is constantly refreshed through the knowledge and considerable savings in the process.
More recently, weve capitalised experience of the entire group, ensuring that we remain a learning, on this expertise by having Europe purchase all the malt for the self-refreshing organisation.
Other divisions have taken responsibility in the same way for other raw materials.
Our businesses learn from each others responses to international trends in their markets.
Retailer consolidation, for example, is most advanced in the USA and Europe, and our businesses in these regions are now sharing their experience with colleagues in South Africa and India.
Our global scale also provides opportunities for cost savings and efficiencies.
Procurement is a case in point.
In recent years, raw materials such as malt, glass and aluminium have been rising in price and it is important that we mitigate these effects.
One way were responding is by using our global scale to purchase more efficiently.
Kozel the birth of a regional brand Kozel translated as The Goat is one of our Czech brands, dating back to the 1870s and also popular in Slovakia.
Within the Czech Republic, it has a market share of over 5.1%.
Czech beer has always been highly regarded outside the country, especially in eastern Europe.
Capitalising on our regional scale in Europe, we launched Kozel in Russia in 2002 and in Hungary three years later.
Its now the leading international licensed brand in Russia and one of the top ten beers in Hungary.
We also export it to over 25 other markets in Europe and beyond.
Developing talent in brewing science To help support the learning and development of our own Thanks to this regional expansion, employees and the global standardisation of brewing Kozel is now our fourth largest brand qualifications, techniques and processes, we announced, in in Europe, with a compound annual June 2006, our sponsorship of a new Chair of Brewing Science growth rate of over 27% in the last at The University of Nottingham in the UK.
Margins have also increased as weve benefited The first scientist to have taken up the position is Professor from economies of scale.
Katherine Smart, one of the UKs leading experts in the fermentation processes that determine the quality and flavour The case of Kozel shows of beer.
the groups ability to take a brand thats doing well in one market This sponsorship also marked the launch of a new postgraduate and move it across borders to programme, an MSc in Brewing Science.
The pioneering, enhance the portfolio in other interdisciplinary MSc programme has been developed for markets.
Kozel is now being individuals working in the brewing industry.
It has been designed managed on a regional scale not only to provide a key pathway for continuing professional another indication of greater development but as a part-time distance learning course so that cohesiveness and collaboration students can acquire and practise skills in their work environment.
In September 2006, 12 students commenced the three-year part-time course, including 11 employees from SABMillers operations in the Canary Islands, Czech Republic, Italy, Panama, Poland, Russia and South Africa.
Kozel has been brewed for over 130 years.
Professor Katherine Smart, Chair of Brewing Science, University of Nottingham, UK.
Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 17
