OPERATIONS REVIEW SOUTH AFRICA has managed under contract for many years, combined to deliver this result.
Zimbabwe SA SA Beverages Beverages continues to experience difficult economic was successfully privatised in December 2007 2006 % 2006, with SABMiller acquiring a 45% and political conditions with foreign currency 1 Group revenue shortages a key issue.
US$m 4,274 4,204 2 Castel delivered a strong performance, with Mozambique enjoyed a third consecutive EBITA US$m 1,102 1,062 4 year of volume growth, with lager volumes lager volumes growing 10% while CSDs EBITA margin % 25.8 25.3 increased by 10%.
Ethiopia and Angola advancing 11% on the back of improving Sales volumes economic fundamentals, a strong brand provided above average growth with continued hl 000 : improvements in the more established markets portfolio and new distribution centres in the Lager 26,543 25,951 2 North.
Our key brands, 2M, Manica and in Cameroon, Gabon and Morocco.
Recent flooding in Asia Other beverages 1,019 828 23 the Zambezi river delta did little to hamper China maintained the momentum reported the ongoing volume growth.
During the year at the half year with organic volume growth a new brewhouse was commissioned in Key focus areas for the full year of 30%, well above industry Maputo, with a further new brewhouse Continue to provide a balanced, growth rates, and all regions posted growth.
planned for Beira in the coming year.
strong and differentiated portfolio of Our national brand, Snow, showed a higher growth rate, with annual volumes approaching Tanzania posted lager volume growth of 8% brands across beer and soft drinks with recent packaging changes in key brands 30 million hectolitres.
Snow is now the leading Use targeted innovation to drive brand by volume in China, driven by the driving much of this growth.
Castle Lager further growth in the mainstream was reintroduced in a new long neck bottle, combined impact of national brand campaigns and premium segments and the expansion of our production base.
posting double digit growth, notwithstanding Improve our market penetration its price premium, and our local premium The greenfield brewery in Guangdong province through enhanced sales capabilities brand, Ndovu, was successfully relaunched as was commissioned in February 2006 and a pure malt lager.
Profitability was constrained and route to market produced volumes of 550,000 hl in its by the effects of currency weakness and Continuously improve our cost first full year.
During the year we acquired higher input and energy costs.
competitiveness five breweries and in January 2007 we Ugandas lager volumes again grew in announced the acquisition of the 38% minority South Africa Hotels and Gaming double digits this year with volumes up 12%, shareholding in the Blue Sword group of and our core mainstream brands of Nile companies in Sichuan Province which was 2007 2006 % Special and Club enjoyed good growth completed in April 2007.
2 Revenue US$m 340 321 6 during the year.
Profitability improved despite Increases in energy costs impacted the EBITA US$m 100 84 19 increased fuel costs.
business, and price increases were EBITA margin % 29.3 26.1 3 Following the effects of prior year insufficient to offset the full effect of the cost RevPar US$ 62.21 55.87 11 devaluations and pressure on consumer increases and higher marketing spend.
Profit 1 Includes share of associates revenue disposable incomes, Botswana recorded margins were also impacted by start-up costs 2 another year of decline with lager volumes and initial losses at our greenfield breweries.
Share of associates revenue down 4%.
Cost pressure was evident 3 Revenue per available room India also recorded excellent lager volume throughout the year as the operation is growth of 36% on a pro forma basis, above heavily reliant on imported goods and industry growth rates.
Volumes were notably services with the consequent impact on strong in Andra Pradesh as well as Punjab profit margins.
The final quarter, however, Beverages and Haryana, where industry reform reflected growth in all beverage categories.
South Africa has experienced good provided a boost to volumes.
Continuing economic growth over the last year, with Elsewhere in Africa, Ghana benefited from capacity expansion is planned to meet gross domestic product growing at 5%, a successful new brand launch, Stone demand in this fast growing market.
The supported by strong consumer demand, Lager, which drove market share gains Fosters brewery and brand acquired during notwithstanding firmer interest rates and and improved profitability.
Our innovative the year have been successfully integrated inflationary pressures driven by higher food sorghum-based Eagle lager continues to and production of the brand will be rolled out and fuel prices.
play a meaningful role in the economy to other of our breweries in the coming year.
segment across the region and is now We recorded lager volume growth of 2.3%, Our new joint ventures in Australia and available in Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe and total soft drink volume growth of 7% Vietnam commenced trading during the and was launched in Tanzania in April.
supported by strong CSD volume growth of CSD volumes in Angola grew by 33% to 6%.
The double digit growth trend in other With strong volume growth expected across surpass 2.5 million hectolitres.
Ongoing beverages continued, particularly in the the division, increased capital expenditure in capacity upgrades are planned to meet water and energy drink categories.
a number of countries will be necessary to ongoing growth.
The Empressa NGola Performance was driven by buoyant fourthmeet capacity requirements.
brewery in Southern Angola, which SABMiller SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Operations review 28 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information quarter sales in both lager and soft drinks silver neck foil being added to the Castle Lite licence in March 2007, SA Beverages operations, with lager volumes up over 8% pack and all Redds packs were redressed stopped manufacturing and distributing and soft drinks volumes up 33% over the with contemporary pressure sensitive labels.
Amstel lager in South Africa.
Both operations benefited from The 375ml returnable bottle was replaced in March 2007, the loss of Amstel has had the exceptionally hot and dry weather with a new 330ml returnable bottle.
Our FAB no material impact on the earnings for the conditions experienced over the last quarter portfolio was bolstered by the introduction of year under review.
SA Beverages expects of the year.
Soft drinks volumes were also two new products.
A new apple-flavoured to mitigate the financial impact in the next boosted in the final quarter by replenishment premium brand, Sarita, was introduced and financial year and going forward, through a of customer stocks following the carbon the Brutal Fruit product range was enhanced number of initiatives including drawing upon dioxide supply problems in the third quarter by a new lemon flavoured variant.
Peroni SABMillers global portfolio of brands and which severely limited CSD sales.
Nastro Azzurro was launched in draught market experience, extending reach into format in March 2007 following the success direct distribution and broadening its The premium and flavoured alcoholic of this brands single serve offering.
Hansa premium offerings, but there will nevertheless beverage FAB categories continued to Marzen Gold, a rich malt beer, was launched still be a negative financial impact in the drive growth in lager volumes.
Investment in in early May 2007 and will build on our March 2008 financial year.
In the financial marketing and pack innovation within these expanding portfolio of premium lagers.
The year under review, on a pro forma basis, categories underpinned the 23% growth in 750ml returnable bottle for our mainstream SA Beverages estimates that this would premium lager volumes and the 9% increase brands will also be replaced by a new have amounted to some US$80 million at in FABs for the year.
The termination of the equivalent sized bottle over the next the EBITA level and expects the impact in Amstel licence in early March 2007 did not 18 months.
This intensified market innovation the next financial year to be at a similar level.
impact sales volumes for the year.
Strong leverages the installed manufacturing performances were delivered by Castle Lite, Sales of Appletiser in South Africa continued capacity as well as the investment in Miller Genuine Draft and Peroni Nastro to show strong growth both in South Africa labeling capacity initiated last year.
Mainstream beer volumes and internationally, with volumes up 13%.
were marginally lower than the prior year Normalisation of the liquor trade, through Distells domestic sales volumes increased, despite renewed growth in Hansa and formal government licensing of previously with gains in the spirits and cider category, Castle Milk Stout.
unlicensed outlets or shebeens, has particularly in the premium sector, both proceeded slowly over the past year, This lager volume performance, supported contributing to improved sales mix.
notwithstanding the progress made in by favourable premium mix benefits, International volumes also grew, continuing a number of provinces where enabling delivered constant currency revenue growth the trends seen in prior years.
Further legislation to issue new liquor licences has of over 11% on the prior year.
Raw material improvements in operating efficiencies in been promulgated.
Our taverner training input costs increased as a result of higher production have also contributed to programme, aimed at uplifting new commodity prices and the relatively weaker improved margins.
taverners business skills, has seen a further rand exchange rate, although favourable 5,000 taverners trained over the last year, Hotels and Gaming currency hedging positions, which were bringing the total number trained to date to SABMiller is a 49% shareholder in the Tsogo in place for much of the year, helped to 12,400.
This training programme is closely Sun group.
The performance of Tsogo Sun mitigate these cost increases to below aligned with the market penetration initiative, continued to be assisted by a buoyant South inflation in the year under review.
to ensure improved commercial capabilities African economy.
The casino industry in Distribution costs rose by some 20% in the of new taverners.
general and Tsogo Sun Gaming in particular current year principally resulting from the have shown real growth in revenue.
The The Department of Trade and Industry expansion of direct deliveries to customers, South African hotel industry has reported issued the final BEE Broad Based Black as we implemented our market penetration one of its best years on the back of a robust Economic Empowerment codes of good initiative.
By the end of the year, the lager local economy and growth in international practice in early February 2007.
Given that customer base had increased by 20% and arrivals.
Strong demand coupled with limited the BEE Act allows for the development of the soft drink customer base by 8%.
capacity growth to date, is underpinning sector specific codes of good practice, the significant real growth in average room rates.
Constant currency EBITA growth of 14% Liquor Industry Charter Steering Committee, was achieved and the focus on fixed cost in which we participate, will be meeting with The improved level of trading, assisted by productivity, as well as minimising raw the Department of Trade and Industry to good cost controls, resulted in a strong material input costs, assisted EBITA margin discuss their respective expectations with improvement in EBITA and margins.
to improve by 50 basis points to 25.8%.
the formulation of a sector code for the liquor industry.
Our continuing innovation agenda led to a number of new product launches and pack As a result of a private arbitration award renovations in the year.
Both Castle Lite and in favour of Heineken, and Heinekens Redds packaging were enhanced, with a subsequent decision to terminate the Amstel Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 29
