Our strategic priorities Creating a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses We believe weve created an attractive, international spread of The charts opposite show the progress weve made since our businesses, among the best in the brewing sector, that is weighted London listing in 1999 in spreading our geographic risk and making advantageously towards fast growing, developing markets.
This sure were in a position to benefit from the worlds growth markets.
year we have been active in shaping and developing our portfolio, In China the worlds largest beer market, by volume our buying and building production capacity, forming partnerships to associate CR Snow pushed ahead this year with an energetic take advantage of new markets and acquiring new brands.
programme of buying existing breweries and building new ones.
Large transactions, such as those involving the Bavaria Group in The business strategy is to strengthen our positions in existing and South America and the Miller Brewing Company in the USA, have nearby provinces, take advantage of our unmatched scale to reap changed the shape of the group.
Thanks to these and other significant synergies, and then build up our brands and distribution transactions, we now have a presence in more than 60 countries with particular emphasis on our highly successful Snow brand across six continents.
We also believe we have the best-balanced Chinas number one national beer.
geographic mix of any international brewer.
Our five divisions Latin Our 2006 joint venture in Vietnam gave us our first entry into another America, Europe, North America, Africa and Asia and South Africa fast growing market.
Weve built a new brewery near Ho Chi Minh cover a broad spread of markets with no single division accounting City, which commenced production in early 2007, and we have a for more than a third of our operating profit.
Gaining scale in China We passed a milestone in China in October 2006 when our While acquisitions will continue, expansion in the future will rely associate CR Snow became the countrys largest brewer by sales more on building new breweries, upgrading existing capacity, volume and brewing capacity.
It now has a market share of 15%, developing our distribution infrastructure and investing heavily some 2.2% ahead of its nearest competitor, while the Snow brand in our brands especially Snow.
continues its spectacular growth as the countrys leading beer.
China beer volume m hl During the year, we announced the acquisition of five more 60 breweries.
Of these, the Guizhou brewery transferred to CR Snow 50 when our purchase of the 38% minority shareholding in the Blue 40 Sword Group completed in April 2007, a move that will consolidate our interests in Sichuan Province.
As for greenfield projects, 30 we completed the brewery at Guangdong in April 2006 and 20 announced the construction on the new Harbin brewery in May 10 2006.
This brewery is due to start operating later in 2007.
0 With the additions of the past 12 months, our Chinese production 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 capacity at 71 million hectolitres is now almost twice what it CR Snow volumes, m hl Snow brand volumes, m hl was just five years ago.
Source: SABMiller plc 2007 Snow bottling line, Tianjin brewery, China.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Chief Executives review For more information on our China operations, visit 10 www.
com en gb Our business Our markets Africa and Asia China Beer Volume, m hl Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Between 1999 and 2007, we have grown rapidly from our South African origins into a global operation EBITA 1999 EBITA 2007 Hotels & Gaming 3% Hotels & Gaming 5% SAB International North America 10% Europe and Africa 24% South Africa Beverages 30% South Africa Manufacturing 9% Latin America 25% South Africa Beverages 62% Africa & Asia 12% Europe 20% Total: US$717 million Total: US$3,591 million Source: South African Breweries plc 1999 Source: SABMiller plc 2007 EBITA is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets excluding software.
distribution capability through our local partner, Vinamilk.
The our own brand portfolio, making sure we win at the point of sale, venture will first concentrate on serving southern Vietnam and will working on costs and productivity, and improving our organisation then expand nationally.
Weve followed a similar strategy in Australia by linking up with This year, privatisation provided us with the opportunity to buy a 45% Coca-Cola Amatil, a local company with a strong sales and stake in the Empressa NGola brewery in Southern Angola, which we distribution infrastructure.
Formed in August 2006, our joint venture had been managing for a number of years.
Angola is a market that is imports, markets and distributes our three international premium growing strongly, underpinned by a robust economy.
brands Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Pilsner Urquell and Miller Genuine Some of the years transactions have brought new brands into Draft.
With the premium beer market in Australia expanding at 15% the group to strengthen our premium offering or to fill strategic a year, the deal provides another attractive growth opportunity for us.
Acquisitions of this kind include the Fosters Weve continued to benefit from the South America transaction business in India and the purchase by Miller in the USA of the completed in 2005.
The deal gave us a major additional source of Sparks and Steel Reserve brands.
growth in one of the beer industrys fastest growing regions.
Were now capitalising on the opportunity by developing the market and Integration in South America Fosters joins the Indian portfolio In 2005 we completed the South America transaction at a cost Beer is becoming more popular with Indian consumers and of approximately US$8,000 million.
The deal made us number SABMiller, the subcontinents number two brewer, is growing two in South America and clear market leader in Colombia, rapidly within the country.
In an expanding market, our volumes Peru, Ecuador and Panama.
But that was only the start since are currently growing at 36%.
we saw in these new markets an opportunity to transfer skills In September 2006, SABMiller acquired 100% of the Fosters and techniques from the rest of the group and so stimulate business in India.
Whereas Fosters used to be produced at the beer category as a whole: notably by turning beer from a one national brewery in Maharashtra, SABMiller India will extend downmarket alternative to spirits into an aspirational product production to all its Indian breweries and will look for cost in its own right.
The process of rolling out production to more Since the deal, a massive integration project has confirmed the breweries is under way and will continue over the coming value of the initial investment.
Were well down the track on our months.
The Maharashtra brewery will provide extra capacity programme of renovation, with pro forma lager volume growth and better access to the market in Mumbai for all our brands.
running at 12% boosted by our market investment initiatives Fosters makes a valuable addition to the portfolio, joining and early consumer response to our brand activities.
We are brands like Haywards and Royal Challenge, and occupying also well on course to meet our pre-merger targets.
Annual cost a place alongside Castle near the premium end of the range.
synergies and operating improvements are expected to reach The recent introduction of imported Peroni Nastro Azzurro US$120 million by March 2010, while actions to increase has further strengthened our premium offering in India.
revenues are set to provide a further boost to profits over the same period.
Costea, the third leading lager brand in Colombia: Cerveceria Leona brewery, Tocancip, Colombia.
Fosters was acquired in September 2006 and has a presence in 19 Indian states: Haywards production line, Aurangabad brewery, India.
Our divisional seminar on Latin America can be found at Chief Executives review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 11 www.
com en gb Investors Presentations and briefings Presentations and briefings 2007 Quarterly divisional seminars
