The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 16 Business review | Regional review | UK & Ireland UK & Ireland A clear focus on the customer, on-going innovation in software and service, and the outstanding efforts of our people have combined to deliver a year of strong organic growth.
Revenue m 2007 224.1 2006 204.4 EBITA m 2007 82.6 2006 75.6 Customers 000 7 2007 741 2007 New customers 40 000 Contracts 2007 363 Countries of operation: United 2007 New contracts 12 Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
Revenue by sector Key products: KCS HR, payroll and E A D time & attendance, Protx payment processing, Sage 50 Accounts, Sage 50 ACT!, Sage 50 Forecasting, Sage 50 Payroll, Sage 200, Sage 1000, SageCRM, Sage Instant, Sage Intelligent Reporting, Sage MMS, Sage Practice C Suite, SalesLogix, Snowdrop HR and B payroll, TAS Books.
2007 2006 A Accounting 53% 54% B Industry-specific 10% 11% C HR and payroll 29% 29% D CRM 6% 6% E Payment processing 2% 0% The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 1 A Womans Touch www.
uk Business: Property maintenance project management DIY training Location: London, UK Sage products: Sage 50 Regional results The UK business made two acquisitions in 1 Sage 50 is entry-level accounting software and has all the standard features needed to UK & Ireland revenues grew by 10% overall the year, plus an additional acquisition after manage customers and suppliers.
to 224.1m 2006: 204.4m with strong the close of the financial year.
Protx, the Kerrie Keeling set up A Womans Touch as an organic growth of 7%.
Sage 50, our core UK payment solutions company, has performed interior and exterior decorating company in 2003 product, grew by 7%, through the application strongly, growing revenues by 56% on a likehaving spent seven years working for one of the of a strategy combining innovation, product for-like basis.
Snowdrop, the mid-market HR City of Londons leading investment banks.
quality and high quality service.
Our fully and payroll services provider, brings a new The company started off with small scale jobs integrated product suite solutions, Sage 200 mid-market capability to our existing HR from supportive friends and family members but and Sage 1000, launched this year, were services.
KCS was acquired in October quickly expanded, employing a team of all female trades people as its excellent reputation spread.
very well received by both customers and 2007, after the close of the financial year.
business partners, reporting strong growth KCS further strengthens Sages mid-market The business has now been in operation for four years, employs 20 people, and has since launch.
New products and services in payroll service, complementing and expanded from interior and exterior decorating the areas of HR and payroll, as well as broadening Snowdrops HR and payroll into carpentry, plumbing, tiling, roofing and increased functionality in accounting, CRM offerings.
These two acquisitions conform to electrics.
A Womans Touch now has the and Enterprise Resource Planning ERP our strategy of expanding our product and capabilities to refurbish an entire house from a shell to completion.
also contributed to our strong growth over services offering to our SME customer base the year.
and mean that we now have a powerful As the business has grown, Keeling has increasingly been involved in off-tools activity product portfolio in HR and payroll.
behind the scenes, ensuring that the business The EBITA margin was maintained at 37% is run efficiently and that there is a constant 2006: 37%.
Until recently Keeling had been running the financial side of the business through increasingly complex spreadsheets.
This format was adequate when the business was in its infancy and the financial set up was much simpler.
However, with 20 employees and multiple projects running concurrently, this method of financial planning became unwieldy and inefficient.
As the business has expanded and the finances have become more sophisticated, Keeling chose Sage 50 in order to meet her growing business demands and give her an even more accurate view of her business financial health.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Regional review About UK & Ireland Sage The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 18 2 Business review | Regional review | UK & Ireland The Fin Machine Company Limited www.
co. uk Business: Manufacturer of special purpose capital equipment used within the global automotive industry Location: Co. Durham, UK Sage products: Sage 200 Commercials Our business developments that might impact the To enable our accountants community to Our vision for the UK & Ireland business is customer: and responding in a timely and connect more effectively with their clients, to be the business software company that efficient manner whenever the customer we launched Sage 50 Accounts Professional everyone recommends.
This means putting needs our help and support.
This on-demand the customer at the forefront of everything this breathtaking experience, we will drive software allows an accountant in practice we do.
It is through this focus on the new customer acquisition and continued to collaborate online with their clients at any customer that we are market leader in the strong growth in revenue.
time and from any location.
Sage 50, our flagship offering in the can therefore review a clients books, make UK & Ireland, is now in its 26th year and We continue to invest in, and deliver, amendments, provide commentary and do continues to deliver strong organic growth, business software that meets individual all of this over the web, without having to visit in large part because of its ease-of-use and customer needs.
This year we have made the clients premises.
The improvements in affordability, backed up by outstanding significant improvements to the usability and efficiency and productivity for the accountant support.
integration capability of our three flagship and the reduced costs for the client, as there business software suites: Sage 50: Sage is no chargeable travel time, make this Looking forward, we are determined to 200: and Sage 1000.
We continue to add offering highly attractive.
do even more for the customer in the UK new modules to the suites in response to & Ireland.
Our UK & Ireland business is customer demand.
Sage 50, for example, We intend to launch further on-demand committed to the delivery of a breathtaking now offers not only core financial and payroll software services aimed at smaller customer experience: breathtaking, functionality but a range of additional businesses during 2008.
Work is well because the quality of every interaction modules including contact management, advanced in the development of a mobile between Sage and its customers needs to business reporting, and people management service which will allow our customers to be outstanding if we are to continue to modules, and, in addition, a series of access their business software from mobile differentiate ourselves from the competition: industry-specific modules for the retail, devices, such as the Blackberry.
and experience, because it is the sum of all manufacturing and construction industries.
the interactions with Sage that will encourage Offering our customers innovative services a customer to do more business with us, Our customers have shown continuing has been a driver for growth this year.
Our and to recommend us to others.
Every strong interest in CRM software.
In response core service offering is a support contract, interaction counts: the impact of the Sage to this demand we have invested significant giving customers access to a highly skilled brand: the way customers find out about resource in improving the integration and approachable team of support people, Sage: the process of selecting, buying and between our CRM offerings ACT!, and helping customers make the very most registering the software: the experience of SageCRM and SalesLogix and our business of their investment in Sage software.
In the using the software: getting support: software suites: Sage 50, Sage 200 and last few years we have added more value to accessing online services: being kept Sage 1000.
These developments have been these contracts by offering upgrades in informed about any fiscal or legal very well received by our customers.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 3 4 Babycare Mantinga UK Limited www.
co. uk International Ltd Business: Supplier of specialty frozen www.
com bakery products Business: Wholesale and retailer of Location: Gloucestershire, UK baby equipment Sage products: Sage 200 Suite Location: Wicklow, Ireland Sage products: Sage 50 with Sage PayPoint 2 Sage 200 Commercials comprises a number The implementation of the system resulted addition to core support.
In the last year we of further finance modules covering sales and in noticeable gains to the business.
Within have introduced additional services including purchase order processing, stock and pricing.
the sales team there was more efficient HR management, Health and Safety, and management of customer and prospect The Fin Machine Company is a market leading Excel support, all of which have been well information in SalesLogix and Sage 200 manufacturer of special-purpose capital quickly contributed to efficient management received.
In October 2007, we launched a equipment used within the global automotive of customer orders and delivery, thus ensuring premium service for accountants in practice, industry.
According to current estimations, high customer satisfaction and guaranteed two out of three car radiators are built on the giving them priority access to a team of repeat business a key objective for the companys machines.
dedicated support people, which has also Mantinga management team.
With a growing business to manage, the proved to be very popular.
4 Babycare International Ltd wholesales and companys financial director felt that it had the retails a wide range of nursery equipment to the potential to do more with support from the Irish market.
Its wholesale operation sources During 2008 we will continue to invest in right technology.
After consultations with a quality nursery products from many European people, products, services, brand and Sage Business Partner, the company purchased countries and markets this range of products Sage 200 Commercials and recently became an our systems.
Our clear and collective focus to retailers and pharmacies throughout Ireland.
early adopter of project accounting, a highly is to get closer to the delivery of a truly configurable costing and analysis module.
Because of the companys involvement in breathtaking experience for the customer.
wholesale and retail operations, it required Reflecting on a year of using the new system, If we can get this right, then our customers an integrated solution that would provide the financial director commented, All in all, its accounting and stock control capabilities, while will stay loyal to us, will be more prepared been a tremendous success and a very positive also incorporating an easy to use retail point of to do more business with us, and will experience throughout.
We have the data we sale solution.
Additionally, the management need for the things that matter.
recommend us to others, which, in turn, will team needed to access the accounting and drive new customer acquisition and organic 3 Sage 200 Suite incorporates Sage 200 management information from both sides financial software and integrated CRM software of the business in a single system.
which works across the business covering The company prides itself on customer many activities including accounting, sales, relationships and chose Sage 50 with Sage marketing, customer service and support PayPoint to provide this integrated solution.
a result it is in a better position to provide high Mantinga UK Limited supplies high quality levels of service to customers and has frozen European bakery products.
As a start-up increased efficiencies and productivity.
company, Mantingas management took the unusual decision to make a substantial investment in IT from the outset.
The company decided on Sage 200 Financials and Commercials to support its back office, combined with the SalesLogix CRM system.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Regional review About Sage UK & Ireland The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 20 Business review | Regional review | Mainland Europe Mainland Europe Our businesses in Mainland Europe performed very strongly this year.
Total revenues grew by 18% overall to 349.1m 2006: 295.9m with strong organic growth of 10%.
Revenue m 349.1 2007 2006 295.9 EBITA m 2007 80.6 2006 65.7 Customers 000 1 2007 1,502 2007 New customers 87 Contracts 000 2007 569 Countries of operation: France, 2007 New contracts 53 Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, Revenue by sector Spain, Portugal and Poland.
D A C Key products: France: Ciel!, Sage Coala, Sage Cogestib, Elit, Sage 100, Sage 1000, Sage X3 Entreprise, XRT: Spain: Logic Control, SP: Germany Switzerland: Barer, Classic Line, Office Line, ProConcept, B Sesam, Simultan: Poland: Symfonia: CRM: ACT!, SageCRM, SalesLogix.
2007 2006 A Accounting 65% 72% B Industry-specific 27% 19% C HR and payroll 7% 8% D CRM 1% 1% Payment processing 0% 0% Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2006 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2007 of $1.98 1 anda1.48 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 1 Precisport, S. L. www.
es Business: Handles image rights of top sports people design and production of sportswear clothing motorsports Location: Barcelona, Spain Sage products: Logic Class Regional results growth, driven by a strong uptake in the new 1 Sage Logic Control is a leading provider of management software and computer services Our businesses in Mainland Europe service contract model.
Their principal offering, Logic performed very strongly this year.
Class, provides an advanced integrated ERP Total revenues grew by 18% overall to Our smaller European territories, Portugal, solution to medium-sized mid-market 349.1m 2006: 295.9m with strong Austria and Belgium continue to grow well.
customers in Spain, complementing the small business solutions of the SP business.
In Austria, we have established a successful business, DPW, in upper mid-market Precisport is a leading company whose business is based on obtaining and handling France improved its performance in the HR and payroll, serving larger customers.
rights to images of top sports people, mainly second half of the year as expected, Belgium continues to grow well, with related to competitive motor racing.
Also, they reporting 9% organic growth in H2, and 6% excellent products such as BOB at the design, produce and market merchandise and for the full year.
A strong performance from entry-level and Sage 100 in the mid-market, sportswear.
Sage 100 contributed to these results.
contributing to our position as one of the The company required a solution that would Ciel!, our entry-level product, reported good market leaders.
We plan to build on our integrate administrative, commercial, logistic, CRM, accounting and payroll processing.
volume growth and expanded its premium strong market position in French-speaking A key issue was a logistics and distribution services offering.
Belgium to expand into the Flemish-speaking solution that would allow the company to sell regions in future.
their textile products through a wide variety Germany Switzerland benefited from of channels in Spain and internationally, as well as at all kinds of events, by e-commerce and in country-specific fiscal changes which The EBITA margin increased to 23% 2006: specialist shops.
resulted in strong organic growth of 8%, 22%, helped by the strong performance in Precisport migrated from the SP accounting particularly at the entry-level.
Germany also Germany Switzerland and continued growth and payroll products to Logic Class.
began to show the benefits of the strategic in Spain.
This integrated the businesses administrative, investments made in CRM and industrycommercial, logistics, CRM, accounting and specific solutions in HR and in the public Two principal acquisitions were made in this payroll processing and specifically led to improvements in supply chain management sector as well as successfully integrating region over the year.
Pro-Concept, an upper and product shipping processes.
Barer into our upper mid-market solutions.
mid-market ERP accounting solutions In addition, it provided more integrated provider based in Switzerland, was acquired information, such as payroll and accounting Spain recorded another year of strong in April 2007 and complements our existing details that facilitated the calculation of product organic growth of 19%, with excellent Simultan business.
The acquisition in line profitability.
progress in developing the full spectrum September 2007 of XRT, a leading supplier of support offering and strong of treasury and cash management software migration strategies.
Poland also enjoyed in France, Spain and South America, another excellent year with 21% organic strengthened our solutions in treasury and cash management.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Regional review About Sage Mainland Europe The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 22 2 Business review | Regional review | Mainland Europe Hotels & Preference www.
com Business: Hospitality group representing independent top-of-the range hotels Location: Paris, France Sage products: Sage 100 Edition Pilote Our business In Germany and Switzerland, we continue We are the market leaders in Spain at both We have strong positions across a variety of to build on our leading mid-market positions the entry-level and the mid-market.
We are market and have consolidated our market positions At the entry-level, our SP product solutions leaders in France, our largest European through acquisition and investment in our continue to grow through the increasing market, with strong positions at both the existing products.
We have also invested adoption of tiered support contracts.
entry-level, through Ciel!, and the midin CRM solutions to underpin our future In the mid-market, our Logic Control product market, through Sage 100.
France originally position in these markets and have seen solutions experienced strong migration to pioneered tiered support contracts under excellent growth in these nascent products.
higher level mid-market and ERP solutions.
which various levels of support are offered, Over the year, our CRM products recorded We also introduced a new payroll solution a concept that has been successfully strong growth in France and Germany as which has been very well received.
adopted by our other regions, and one that demand for more front office automation continues to contribute to organic growth.
develops in the more mature economies Poland is one of our newer markets where Through recent acquisitions, France has of Mainland Europe.
We also have ERP we are again growing strongly through good also developed strong industry-specific products such as Sage X3 which suit positioning of our entry-level and mid-market solutions in the upper mid-market in customers with cross-border requirements solutions and the increasing focus on specialisms such as transport, distribution for business management solutions.
We believe that new products and services such as these will continue to drive future Our customers in our subsidiary countries organic growth.
of Portugal, Austria and Belgium also show a propensity to subscribe for support, strengthening customer upgrade and migration strategies.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 4 Cushman & Wakefield Polska www.
com Business: Real estate consultancy Location: Warsaw, Poland Sage products: SYMFONIA Handel Forte, SYMFONIA Kontroling Forte Ludwig GmbH www.
fide Business: Trade construction machinery Location: Karlsruhe, Germany Sage products: Office Line 3 In all our European markets, we face 2 Sage 100 is an accounting solution for 4 SYMFONIA Forte is a Polish ERP-class SMEs with 2 to 200 employees.
Edition Pilote solution offering lasting and measurable challenging competition from local suppliers, provides business intelligence and dashboard business benefits to enterprises.
as well as limited competition from global functionality.
Cushman & Wakefield is a leading real estate suppliers at the very top of our product Due to further international growth, Hotels services firm.
The Warsaw office was range.
We believe that the excellence of our & Preference required innovation of their established in 1991 and employs approximately products and service support offerings accounting software to enable them to generate 150 people.
They offer a wide range of real enables us to compete successfully and quickly the key commercial analyses they estate services.
require for monitoring their business.
grow in our chosen markets and consolidate The implementation of SYMFONIA Forte our leading market positions.
Over the year, Hotels & Preference successfully reduced increased productivity, saving both time and processing time during a period of growth and costs and led to the automation of a number we added 87,000 new customers in their close time for reporting.
In addition, they of financial processes.
We anticipate another improved their commercial responsiveness.
strong year in 2008, although growth and 3 Ludwig GmbH sell construction equipment, margins in Germany and Switzerland will power and measuring tools, along with moderate slightly following legislative and construction and manufacturer supplies.
fiscal stimulus in those markets in 2007.
With the fully integrated Office Line accounting solution, all areas from order and stock management to financial accounting, billing and control are integrated, optimising the related processes.
Office Line also met all the industry-specific requirements of the construction machinery and equipment supplier.
Important key figures became immediately available from the system to the executive management for strategic decision making.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Regional review About Sage Mainland Europe The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 24 Business review | Regional review | North America North America Our North American business experienced a year of challenging change and exceptional growth through acquisition.
We are well poised to benefit from planned investment in our strong brands to drive organic growth going forward.
Revenue by sector Key products: Business Management A E Division: ACT!, Peachtree, Sage Accpac D ERP, SageCRM, Sage FAS, Sage MAS C 90 200 500 ERP, SalesLogix, Simply Accounting: Industry & Specialised Solutions Division: Sage Abra, Sage Compliance Services, Sage MIP Fund B Accounting, Sage Timberline Office: Sage Healthcare Division: Sage Payment 2007 2006 Solutions Division.
A Accounting 36% 53% B Industry-specific 43% 20% C HR and payroll 4% 6% D CRM 8% 13% E Payment processing 9% 8% Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2006 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2007 of $1.98 1 anda1.48 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Earnings before interest, tax, amortisation of intangible fixed assets EBITA and prior year gain on disposal in North America of 2.7m.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 1 Island Lake Resort Group www.
com Business: Country lodge and ski destination Location: Fernie, B. C. Canada Sage products: Sage Accpac ERP, SageCRM Regional results Accpac and in CRM.
MAS 90 4.2s new 1 Sage Accpac ERP is an advanced web-based accounting solution built on a In North America total revenues grew by release was well-received by the market and world-class, object-oriented, multi-tiered 54% to 508.1m 2006: 329.1m, by business partners.
It offers seamless integration with benefiting from the contribution from major a number of solutions including SageCRM.
Organic revenue The EBITA margin decreased to 20% SageCRM is a wireless and web-based suite of applications that provides enterprise-wide growth was 4% for the year.
2006: 24% due to the dilutive effect access to vital customer, partner and prospect of acquisitions made in 2006.
The Small Business Division grew organically acquisitions made in 2006, North Americas Island Lake Resort Group ILRG is a worldby 3%.
Simply, the market leader in EBITA margin was maintained at 23% class vacation spot with three locations Canada, again recorded good growth, 2006: 23%.
perched in the Canadian Rocky Mountains.
with double digit growth in bundled annual With the business expanding to more than 230 software service contracts.
Peachtree Of the 2006 acquisitions, Verus, now Sage employees in multiple locations, ILRG needed Quantum continued to show strong revenue Payment Solutions Division, performed in line to streamline their operations.
After many successful years using Simply by Sage, they growth, as customers migrated from the with our expectations over the year, reporting decided a web-based solution would best suit Peachtree line.
Peachtree 2008 showed 14% revenue growth on a like-for-like basis their needs, so they migrated to Sage Accpac continued growth in support services, and increased margins of 42%.
The powerful consolidation tool and although licence sales of the new upgrade, flexibility of the payroll module are particularly important and allow flexibility in the way which has historically driven revenue, proved Emdeon, now Sage Healthcare Division, information can be delivered.
The new system somewhat disappointing, as customers reported slower than anticipated revenue changed the way ILRG conducts business and chose to remain on older versions of growth of 1% on a like-for-like basis, but streamlined many tasks.
revenue was affected by with an improved margin of 7% for the full SageCRM integrates seamlessly with Sage a lack of large corporate contracts relative year 9% in the second half of the year.
Over Accpac ERP and enables ILRG to manage to the prior year.
the past year, there have been operational information on their customers spending habits from reservations and point of sale and management issues at this division in order to tailor marketing campaigns.
The Mid-Market Division recorded organic which will continue to impact revenue growth Regular newsletters are e-mailed to customers growth of 4%, reflecting improved 5% in the short term.
These issues are being which has led to an increase in customer organic growth in the second half of the year addressed, and we remain confident that satisfaction and business at all resorts making ILRG number three in the world.
which was driven by improved performances Sage Healthcare Division provides the Group in Construction & Real Estate, Non-profit, with a leading position in a highly attractive The solution is scalable, customisable and, being web-based, totally flexible and fully market with good growth potential over the accessible anytime, anywhere.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Regional review About Sage North America The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 26 2 Business review | Regional review | North America Etnia Barcelona www.
com Business: Wholesale distribution spectacles Location: Miami, Florida, US Sage products: Peachtree by Sage Quantum Our business Our North American business has a number Business Management Division: We have been present in North America of industry-specific solutions for customers in All accounting products and CRM 45% since 1991 through our first acquisition, construction real estate, not-for-profit and of regional 2007 revenues.
DacEasy, followed by acquisitions in the healthcare as well as products such as Industry & Specialised Solutions Division: years following that led to our Peachtree Accpac which are suitable for our customers HR and payroll, Construction & Real Estate, and MAS product ranges.
North America is with multi-national requirements.
now our largest market, accounting for over Sage Payment Solutions Division: 40% of our total revenues.
ACT!, Simply The US is our most competitive market with 9% of 2007 regional revenues.
Accounting and Peachtree are leading a number of regional and global companies Sage Healthcare Division: and well-recognised brands in the North competing across our product range.
American market we are the market leader We have, nonetheless, for over 16 years, in Canada through our Simply Accounting expanded our market presence as one This reorganisation will improve customer solutions and number two in the US at the of the leading global suppliers of business focus, commercial agility and product entry-level with Peachtree.
In the mid-market, management solutions in this market.
We plan on investing in this our MAS and Accpac product solutions Over the year, we added 147,000 new business to maintain our strong market are market leaders in both the United States customers, and now have over 2.8 million positions.
We also made a number of and Canada with highly customisable customers in North America.
management changes and are seeking to solutions and deep functionality across our appoint a new CEO of the North American product portfolio.
Following several years of growth and an business early in 2008. active acquisition programme, including in North America is also our largest market for 2006 the acquisition of Verus renamed Our strategic focus for the coming year CRM, accounting for over 65% of our global Sage Payment Solutions Division and will be on reconnecting with our corporate CRM revenues, through our range of CRM Emdeon renamed Sage Healthcare principles of agility and simplicity in all our solutions, ACT!, SageCRM SageCRM.
com Division, our North American business customer processes, from entry-level to midand SalesLogix.
reorganised into four new operating divisions market to our industry-specific solutions and to improve agility and customer connection.
We will be investing in our service From 1 October 2007, we will begin support offering to improve customer reporting results along the business lines satisfaction levels.
Customer service of these four divisions: satisfaction feeds directly into the upgrade The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 3 4 Litecubes LLC Internal Medicine www.
com Associates Business: Novelty manufacturing Location: San Diego, California, US www.
com Sage products: Sage MAS 90 ERP with financial Business: Healthcare provider and inventory modules, Location: Bloomington, Indiana, US ACT!
Sage products: Intergy, Intergy EHR Electronic Health Records, Practice Analytics and migration cycle for our software products 2 Peachtree Quantum is a comprehensive accounts receivable and accounts payable to accounting solution that provides premium payroll and sales orders.
Using Sage MAS 90 and is also our key competitive advantage.
features like multi-company consolidations, ERP cut sales order processing time by 75%.
In terms of technology, we will concentrate progress billing, serialised inventory, and Speedy growth mandated a robust financial on introducing product suites end-to-end Crystal Reports for Peachtree.
It provides system with multi-user data entry, automated solutions in the coming year as well as a multi-user option for improved productivity.
sales orders, streamlined invoicing and evaluating market demand for hosted or Etnia Barcelona distributes handcrafted powerful inventory management.
on-demand products, also known as European eyewear for sale through exclusive Tight integration with ACT!
makes it easy optical boutiques across the United States, .
to access lead data and convert them Canada, and South America.
They started into active customers.
using Peachtree Quantum last year when the Our outlook for 2008 is focused and companys transaction volume and number 4 Intergy is a comprehensive practice confident.
Organic growth is expected of users dramatically increased.
management system providing advanced scheduling, billing, and management tools to improve modestly over the next Peachtree Quantum accommodates a large which also easily integrates with Intergy EHR, 12 months, although investment in our number of users and high transaction volume Practice Analytics and EDI solutions.
while enjoying superior functionality and ease businesses will slightly reduce our operating of use.
Internal Medicine Associates is a 62 provider margins in the short term.
Our strong brands practice with nine sites throughout Indiana.
The rich feature set of Peachtree Quantum and quality support offering position us The practice manages over 1,000 encounters delivers the functionality of higher-priced well for continued long term success in per day, and issues over 26,000 bills per month.
Easy to learn software minimises this market.
A clear migration path reassures Internal Medicine Associates selected Intergy Etnia Barcelona of a Sage Software solution to EHR to complement Intergy to improve match its growing business needs.
efficiencies and better manage their rapidly increasing number of patient records.
The result 3 Sage MAS 90 ERP offers a broad selection is improved workflow between their nine sites of feature-rich solutions, including accounting, and enhanced patient care, maintaining the financial reporting, distribution, manufacturing high quality of service the community has and e-business management.
management software tracks and manages customer and vendor relationships.
Litecubes manufacture non-toxic plastic blocks which look like ice cubes.
The company grew quickly and once they began processing hundreds of orders every month they upgraded from QuickBooks to Sage MAS 90 ERP because of the easy conversion path via the data migrator tool.
Sage MAS 90 ERP provides Litecubes with an end-to-end business system, automating and integrating everything from Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Regional review About Sage North America The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 28 Business review | Regional review | Rest of World Rest of World Once again we have experienced an exceptional year our growth has been driven by innovation, investment in our core products and service excellence.
Our entrepreneurial culture, passion and customer centric approach has contributed to our continued success.
Revenue m 2007 76.3 2006 63.0 EBITA m 2007 20.0 2006 16.6 Customers 000 4 2007 442 2007 New customers 45 Contracts 000 2007 119 Countries of operation: South Africa, 2007 New contracts 27 Australia, Singapore, China, UAE, Revenue by sector Malaysia, India and Saudi Arabia.
D A Key products: South Africa: Pastel, VIP Payroll: Australia: Handisoft, MicrOpay: Singapore: Creative: Malaysia: UBS: All: Accpac ERP, ACT!, SageCRM, SalesLogix.
C B 2007 2006 A Accounting 45% 44% B Industry-specific 9% 10% C HR and payroll 41% 41% D CRM 5% 5% Payment processing 0% 0% Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2006 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2007 of $1.98 1 anda1.48 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 1 Soaring Eagle Distributors Business: Harley Davidson dealer Location: Gauteng, South Africa Sage products: Softline Pastel Pastel Evolution Regional results The EBITA margin was maintained at 26% 1 Pastel Evolution is business management software for large businesses with multiple Rest of World again reported strong growth 2006: 26%.
It gives businesses the ability to control and revenues of 76.3m 2006: 63.0m finances as well as relationships with with organic growth of 17%.
South Africa In July 2007, we acquired Creative Software, customers, suppliers and employees.
had another impressive year, with excellent a HR and payroll solutions provider in Soaring Eagle Distributors wanted superior growth in new licences, migration and both Malaysia and Singapore.
Creative CRM facilities and enterprise resource support service contracts.
Australia again complements our acquisition in 2006 management capabilities that automatically integrate with administrative and accounting reported strong growth in licences and of UBS Corporation Berhad, the leading requirements.
Australia and South Africa continue vendor of business management software Pastel Evolution met all functionality to build a successful business on the solutions for SMEs in Malaysia.
requirements and no customisation principles of innovation, simplicity, customer was necessary.
focus and agility to bring new ideas to life.
Soaring Eagle Distributors had previous This entrepreneurial and customer-centric experience of Pastel products, and the strategy has resulted in two major awards business found the software logically over the year for customer service.
designed, easy to use and were able to save on implementation costs.
The modules of Pastel Evolution implemented include bill of materials for the clothing accessory kits, job costing for the service and maintenance centre, multi-warehousing for portioning of stock between service and store, point of sale for sale of peripheral and clothing lines, serial tracking tracking of motor cycles, resolve CRM tracking of incident history against clients as well as workflows for automating processes, and business intelligence centre for reporting financials as well as projections.
Soaring Eagle Distributors has been able to integrate and streamline its operations and improve service to the 650 existing members and the 400 new customers they attract every year.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Regional review About Rest of World Sage The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 30 2 Business review | Regional review | Rest of World Pickles Auctions www.
au Business: Auctioneers Location: Belmore, NSW, Australia Sage products: Sage MicrOpay MicrOpay Meridian Our business In South Africa, Softline Pastel Accounting We continue to expand in Singapore and Our businesses in the strongly growing and Softline VIP Payroll are both leaders Malaysia and this year acquired Creative economies, which we report as Rest of within their respective product markets.
In Software, the leading payroll vendor for World, cover a geographically diverse area, Australia, our Sage MicrOpay business leads SMEs in this region.
We also experienced stretching from South Africa and Australia the Australian market in payroll solutions, with good growth in the Middle East through our in the Southern Hemisphere to Singapore, Sage Handisoft retaining consistent market UAE office and have now opened an office China, Malaysia and India in the Far East, share within the practice management and in Saudi Arabia, one of the fastest growing UAE and Saudi Arabia in the Middle East.
We expect to markets in the Middle East.
Accounting for 7% of total revenues, the expand further geographically from this businesses are growing rapidly through promising market position in the emerging Going forward, we are confident that our a combination of product and service markets of the Far East.
growth in these economies will remain innovation as well as commitment strong, as our business grows in strength to excellence in the way business This year was our first full year of operation and scale.
Our strategy focuses on driving is undertaken.
in China and our fourth in India.
Both these growth by consolidating our service offering businesses are growing well and establishing and broadening our product portfolio into Through consistent organic growth and a strong position in these rapidly growing industry-specific solutions.
CRM is still in acquisition, we have built up market-leading markets.
We continue to pursue its infancy in these markets, but should begin positions in all our chosen product opportunities to build these businesses both to contribute to growth in the near future.
We continue to consolidate and organically and by acquisition.
strengthen our position despite growing competition in these attractive, high growth markets.
Over the year, we added 45,000 new customers across the region.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 4 MYOJO Foods Company www.
com Business: Instant noodles manufacturer Location: Singapore Sage products: Sage Software Asia Accpac ERP Thomson Financial www.
au Business: Corporate communications webcasts provider Location: Pyrmont, NSW, Australia Sage products: Sage Business Solutions SageCRM 3 2 MicrOpay Meridian is an advanced payroll 4 Accpac ERP is a sophisticated accounting management solution designed specifically for and operations system for small and medium to larger organisations.
Pickles Auctions payroll has grown from 120 MYOJO Foods required a solution which would to 450 in the past five years.
The company reduce the level of manual input and therefore required a solution that would automate payroll speed up and improve the financial and processing and reporting.
operational procedures and the quality of information produced.
The business deployed MicrOpay Meridian payroll software which reduced processing and Accpac ERP helped to achieve this.
Benefits reporting time by up to 60%, eliminating the reported by the business included reducing need for manual cheques and produced more manpower hours via automated data entry, detailed payroll information to aid efficient easily produced inventory reports, improved analysis of costs and budget management.
staff morale and increased customer confidence in the operational process.
3 SageCRM is a CRM solution for mid-sized businesses.
It allows customers to analyse and manage sales, marketing and customer care across the business.
Thomson Financial needed to grow its CRM from manual processes to a large, automated database solution.
SageCRM allowed the company to develop an application that closely aligns with the business processes they wanted to automate and provided strong integration capability and depth of functionality.
SageCRM allowed Thomson Financial to focus its time on its customers rather than day-to-day paperwork.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Regional review About Sage Rest of World
