The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Business review | Group strategy and performance I am pleased to report that Sage has had another successful year, significantly surpassing the milestone of 1 billion in revenues.
The Group once again delivered double digit revenue and adjusted profit growth and substantial cash generation whilst achieving revenue growth of 7%.
Going into 2008, we anticipate further good performances in the UK & Ireland, Mainland Europe and Rest of World.
In North America, we expect to see the early results of the actions taken within this business in 2007.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09 Group results To facilitate a comparison of results we use SageCRM.
com and Accpac ERP in North I am pleased to report that Sage has had adjusted profitability as described on pages America.
There are very early signs that another successful year, significantly 32 and 33.
We again reported good growth customers are increasingly receptive to surpassing the milestone of 1 billion in in profitability with EBITA increasing 20% utilising the efficiencies that web-based revenues.
The Group once again delivered to 283.2m 2006: 235.9m.
Adjusted technologies offer in delivering business double digit revenue and adjusted profit earnings per share grew 13% to 13.34p applications.
In addition, we plan to introduce growth and substantial cash generation 2006: 11.83p.
additional web-enabled and hosted products whilst achieving revenue growth of 7%.
and services across the Group in the near Product and service strategy future, although we anticipate that adoption We have continued to experience good Customer demand for combined software of these will be gradual, and that for the organic revenue growth whilst expanding and service contracts continues to grow.
foreseeable future a combination of desktop our product and services portfolio through This type of offering now makes up 59% applications, web-enabled and hosted strategic acquisitions.
Revenues increased of our services revenues and contributed systems will be used by SME customers.
Customers with a significant contribution from prior year have shown that they are willing to pay for Specialist sectors acquisitions of 283.4m, or 24% of total excellent, value-added service that helps Industry-specific and revenues.
Organic revenue growth for the them to run their businesses more efficiently.
specialised solutions year was 7%, as reported in both the first This continuous service model is very familiar As our customers needs evolve, they and second halves of the year.
to Sage, and presages potential future increasingly demand more sophisticated changes to our market.
Broadband and business software solutions to manage Total software licence revenues were internet usage are increasingly evident both front office and financial back office 343.7m 2006: 308.1m, with organic across our SME customer base and present operations and integrate management of all growth of 4%.
Total services revenues exciting opportunities for the deployment of their business requirements.
Over the years, increased to 813.9m 2006: 584.3m, new products and services.
our product and services mix has adapted benefiting from strong organic growth of 9% to meet our customers changing needs, for the year.
We have introduced several products which moving from pure back office accounting are web-enabled or available as a hosted solutions to introducing solutions applicable on-demand service, including Sage 50 to the more specialised requirements of Accounts Professional Online in the UK and specific industries, such as manufacturing, Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2006 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2007 of $1.98 1 anda1.48 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Pre-tax profit and earnings per share figures stated prior to amortisation of intangible fixed assets, prior year gain on disposal of 2.7m.
Earnings before interest, tax, amortisation of intangible fixed assets EBITA and prior year gain on disposal in North America of 2.7m.
After neutralisation of foreign exchange movements.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Group strategy About Sage Group strategy and performance and performance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 10 Business review | Group strategy and performance We see many opportunities arising from the changing needs of our core SME customer base, which this year reached 5.5 million customers.
construction and real estate, transport and Our customers also now demand a wider North America reported a mixed distribution, healthcare and retail, which now range of products and services relating to performance from the three core products.
comprise almost 30% of our total revenues.
specialist areas such as HR and payroll, SageCRM delivered strong growth, albeit off We anticipate that customer demand for payment processing services and CRM a small base.
This good performance was industry-specific solutions will continue to see below, which are all showing very offset by the performance of ACT!
where grow, providing a continuing source of healthy rates of growth.
Our strategy is to fewer large corporate contracts were closed growth for our product offerings.
focus on these new product areas and compared to the prior year.
The new release integrate them into our existing product of SalesLogix was well received, although Industry-specific and specialised solutions solutions as integrated product suites.
sales in the year were lower than anticipated.
UK & Mainland North Rest of Ireland Europe America World The early signs in the UK, which has led Healthcare this initiative, are that integrated solutions will In the UK & Ireland, our second largest HR and payroll prove increasingly popular with our customer market for CRM, ACT!, SalesLogix and Construction real estate base, and we expect gradually to extend this SageCRM all reported very strong growth, Transport distribution concept to our other regions.
as demand for CRM software is firmly Payment processing established, and our CRM products are Accountancy Customer Relationship increasingly integrated into the Sage 50, Not-for-profit Management CRM Sage 200 and Sage 1000 product suites.
Manufacturing CRM is one of our specialist global Retail applications.
We offer three products in CRM had a good year in France and our CRM range: ACT!
at the entry-level, Germany, where mid-market demand for SageCRM SageCRM.
com in the midCRM is growing rapidly, although the market market, which is increasingly integrated is still immature relative to North America.
into our product suites, and SalesLogix, Investments were made in resources and a highly customisable product for the marketing over the year to position the upper mid-market.
business for further growth in CRM in the near future.
Rest of World also reported North America is our largest market for CRM, strong growth in these fledgling markets.
accounting for 65% of our global CRM revenues.
The UK & Ireland accounts for a further 22% of CRM revenues.
Mainland Europe and Rest of World account for the remaining revenues, as these markets increasingly adopt CRM solutions.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 2010 strategy Objective Strategy Progress Be a key leader in all markets of the world Supply business management software We continue to strive to improve our leading and services that help our customers market positions in all our major markets run their businesses more efficiently Develop products and services which are the Maintain high levels of quality service support Our focus on improving support levels has most compelling fit with a customers country that feed back into the product and services contributed to a net increase in contract and industry development cycle retention Have the most trusted brands Position our brands to meet our customers Investment in consistent core identity requirements and future brand development Have the most satisfied and active customers Focus on product innovation and value-added 544,000 upgrades in 2007 in our industry services to meet the changing needs of 82,000 migrations in 2007 our customers 90,000 net new service contracts in 2007 Experience superior organic revenue growth Develop products and services that meet Two regions reported double digit organic versus our peer group the changing needs of our customers revenue growth for the year Continual improvement in the Groups organic revenue growth rate remains a strategic priority for our businesses Be recognised as one of the most Building organisational capability to drive Invest in talent management, people admired employers business performance development and HR processes 2010 strategy We have successfully followed a focused We see many opportunities arising from the It is our stated objective that in the medium and targeted strategy that has made our changing needs of our core SME customer term, we will be focusing on improving further business one of the leading suppliers base, which this year reached 5.5 million.
our service support levels in North America.
of business management software and Developments in technology, a greater Excellent service support leads to improved services in the world.
We plan on building demand for customised solutions and the customer satisfaction levels which drive on our market-leading position going increasing use of value-added products and our upgrade and migration strategies.
forward, and we have set out a long-term services all provide a rich source of longMaintaining our reputation for support strategy to accomplish that objective.
term growth from which we are well-placed excellence is consequently a key Over the year, we achieved significant to benefit.
progress towards our 2010 goals, as shown in the table above.
Whilst we recognise the current uncertainties We continue to listen to our customers in the macro-economic situation, the through the 7.5 million customer calls we Outlook defensive characteristics of our business take globally every year.
Customer feedback Going into 2008 we anticipate further good model, including strong cash flows and is an essential component of our product performances in the UK & Ireland, Mainland a high percentage of recurring revenues development that allows us to introduce Europe and Rest of World.
In North America, through our service support contracts, regular product improvements as well in this new financial year, we expect to see mean that we are well placed to meet as compelling product upgrades that meet the early benefits of the actions taken within these challenges.
this business, with a modest improvement in organic growth.
We will increase our Paul Walker Improving organic revenue growth remains investment in our North American business Chief Executive our primary objective as it measures our to build sustainable organic growth in the success in continuously innovating our medium term.
business management solutions and changing to meet the evolving needs of our customers.
Customers will remain at the heart of our business strategy.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Group strategy and performance
