The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 12 Business review | Our business and markets Our guiding principles Simplicity Innovation Integrity Agility Trust High quality, innovative The competitive nature Our long-term relationships The changing nature of Our customers depend solutions help our of our market environment with customers, suppliers, our customers businesses on us to deliver products customers manage their demands that we are shareholders and requires us to respond and services to run business processes.
adept in anticipating our employees are based on quickly to market their businesses more We aim to make it easier customers needs and mutual trust and integrity.
We take that for our customers to do introducing products and This is the cornerstone decentralised management responsibility seriously business with us and easier services that address of our stakeholder strategy.
structure enables us to and strive to fulfil our for them to use our their immediate business Integrity in our corporate be flexible and agile in customers expectations.
We aim to relationships has the markets in which be first to market with always been central we operate.
creative solutions to our to corporate vision.
Marketplace overview complementary products for sales and Business intelligence Taxation and other products Sage is one of the leading global suppliers customer service, industry-specific for accountants of business management software and production processes and management Business stationery services to SMEs.
Development platforms E-business Our goal is to help the customers we serve In emerging markets such as Africa and Asia, Payment processing run their businesses more efficiently, helping growth is being driven by small businesses them to gain greater insight into their computerising their business processes for We also offer tailored software for the needs business activities and providing them the first time.
Our model of expanding by of business within some specific industries with lasting benefits by automating their acquiring a leading local player in accounting that enhance our core products, including: business processes.
or payroll software allows us to choose the Healthcare ideal time to enter these markets and Construction real estate With the benefit of local understanding and ensures that Sage solutions meet the unique Transport distribution insight, we provide software and services needs of these local businesses.
Accountancy that are relevant, practical and useful for the Not-for-profit demands of todays SMEs.
Handling on We add value to new acquisitions by Manufacturing average 32,000 customers calls a day bringing operational excellence to their local Retail allows us to have a profound understanding initiatives and helping them to introduce of their needs.
Our excellent customer models to manage their customer service SMEs highly value quality customer support service and our customer-centric approach and support related activities more effectively.
and locally tailored products, which we have are designed to engender customer loyalty, made the cornerstone of our successful whilst at the same time setting us apart from These strategies have been proven to deliver business strategy.
Customer focus is at the our competition.
The quality of our products consistent growth in our established markets heart of our business model, and we aim to and service encourages recommendation over the past decade.
build customer loyalty through the provision by our customers, as well as by over of outstanding service and relevant product 40,000 accountants in practice.
The core of our products cover accounting, innovation.
The loyalty of our customer base but Sage is not just about accounting remains one of our strongest barriers to In our established markets such as the UK & software.
Our product range also includes: competitive entry and has helped us over the Ireland, Mainland Europe and North America, Payroll years to build a customer base of over five much of the growth in the software sector CRM million.
This year alone, we added 319,000 is being driven by SMEs extending their Financial forecasting new customers.
Job costing business process automation.
We are HR meeting SMEs changing needs by offering The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 Executive Committee Paul Walker Group Chief Executive Paul Harrison David Clayton Paul Stobart Guy Berruyer To be appointed Ivan Epstein Michael Robinson Klaus-Michael Karen Geary Vogelberg Group Finance Group Strategy CEO CEO CEO CEO Company Group Director of Director and Mergers and UK & Ireland Mainland Europe North America South Africa Secretary and Human Resources Chief Technology Acquisitions and Asia and Australia Group Legal and Corporate Officer Director Director Communications As a global company, we face a wide Our guiding principles are more than just Customer base range of market conditions.
In all our words: they are effective strategic shorthand A C markets, we are one of the market leaders to running our business most effectively supplying business management solutions along the principles that made Sage B to our target market of SMEs, which we successful since its creation.
Application define as businesses with typically less of our guiding principles is inherent in the than 500 employees.
The core of our operating plans of each of our businesses, business is customers with less than 100 with the focus on improving the application of employees, these account for 93% of our each principle to our business processes.
Management structure Strategy and guiding principles To allow us to leverage the power of our local Number of employees 2007 Our strategic vision is to continue to be one expertise, we operate a deliberately devolved A 25 83% B 26100 10% of the leading global suppliers of business organisational structure, with four regions: C 100 7% management software solutions to SMEs.
UK & Ireland, Mainland Europe, North This is a sector in which we have specialised America and Rest of World.
The regional for over 25 years, and it forms the basis of businesses report into the Group, but have our strategic positioning.
substantial independence in determining their own business strategy and product Our business philosophy is founded on development as appropriate to the the belief that SMEs want locally designed conditions in their local markets.
The CEOs solutions that meet the unique legal and of each of these regions are represented regulatory environment of their local market.
on our Executive Committee which also Our local focus allows us to develop comprises senior members of our Group compelling products tailored to specific management team.
The Executive market requirements, but with the support Committee structure is shown in the of a respected global brand.
on local markets differentiates us from our competition and has contributed to our successful growth strategy over the years.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Our business About Sage and markets The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 14 Business review | Our business and markets 2007 acquisitions Date Company Industry specialism Country Enterprise value m November 2006 Protx Group Ltd Payment processing services UK 20.7m April 2007 Pro-Concept SA Accounting: Mid-market Switzerland 5.8m May 2007 Snowdrop Systems Ltd HR and payroll UK 17.2m July 2007 Creative Software Pte Ltd HR and payroll Singapore, Malaysia 3.1m September 2007 XRT SA Treasury and cash management France, Spain, South America 26.3m Total enterprise value 73.1m Other smaller acquisitions 11.0m Payment of deferred consideration on prior year acquisitions 13.2m Deferred consideration on current year acquisitions 1.1m Net cash paid 96.2m Distribution strength Acquisition strategy A summary of the acquisitions made over Our distribution strength remains one of Acquisitions remain an important part of our the year is set out in the table above.
our key competitive advantages, and our growth strategy, and we continue to pursue business partners play an important role a number of acquisition opportunities which The three principal acquisitions completed in promoting our products and services.
could expand our product and service in 2006, Verus, Emdeon and Adonix, have As customers demand increasing levels offering to SMEs in both new and existing contributed to strong revenue and profit of tailored products and specialised services, territories.
During the year, we completed five growth, and will, from 2008, begin to the role of our business partners will continue principal acquisitions, for an enterprise value contribute to our organic growth.
Our business partners are a of 73.1m.
A further acquisition, KCS Global integrated into a new mid-market division in key component in our customer Holdings Limited, was completed in October France.
Verus, now renamed Sage Payment relationship strategy.
2007 for an enterprise value of 20.0m.
Solutions Division, has completed the integration of its payment solutions into SMEs rely on professional advisers such as Three acquisitions were in the fast-growing Peachtree and Emdeon.
Emdeon Practice bank managers and accountants for advice field of HR and payroll services.
The Services, now renamed Sage Healthcare on managing their businesses.
We have over acquisition of Creative, with businesses in Division, has strengthened its management 25,000 business partners globally as well as Singapore and Malaysia, consolidates our team and is focused on improving its 40,000 accountants recommending our position as one of the leading suppliers of operational efficiency and developing its products.
This strong referral and distribution HR and payroll services in South East Asia.
The search for a permanent network constitutes one of our competitive Snowdrop and KCS build on our existing CEO of this division is well advanced, with advantages.
product offering in this area in the UK, whilst the division currently under the experienced the acquisition of Protx adds payment management of an interim CEO.
We continue to build on and innovate in processing capability to our UK solutions.
our routes to market, through new business Pro-Concept in Switzerland extends our Key performance indicators partners such as banks.
We are preparing accounting solutions in Mainland Europe.
As summarised on page 11, our corporate and adapting products and services XRT, with operations in France and Spain, strategy is focused on creating value and for these new distribution initiatives to as well as South America, complements building a strong, sustainable business with complement our existing channels.
our existing capabilities in treasury and cash high levels of customer satisfaction.
We management, which we acquired in 2003 monitor our performance against a number with Concept in Mainland Europe.
of different benchmarks which allow us to measure the value we are creating for both our customers and our shareholders.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 Key performance indicators 1 2 3 Adjusted EPS growth Organic revenue growth EBITA margin 2006: 20% 2006: 26% 2006: 7% 13% 7% 24% 4 5 Cash generation Renewal rates on maintenance from operations and support contracts 2006: 107% 2006: 80% 112% 81% Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2006 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2007 of $1.98 1 anda1.48 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Earnings before interest, tax, amortisation of intangible fixed assets EBITA and prior year gain on disposal in North America of 2.7m.
Pre-tax profit and earnings per share figures stated prior to amortisation of intangible fixed assets, prior year gain on disposal of 2.7m.
After neutralisation of foreign exchange movements.
In selecting these key performance 1 Adjusted EPS growth 4 Cash generation from operations Adjusted EPS represents income for the Cash flows from operating activities divided by indicators, we have incorporated our 2010 financial year, prior to the amortisation EBITA provide a measure of the ability of the strategic goals set out on page 11, and of intangible assets, divided by the weighted Group to yield cash from its on-going business which we believe are manifest in a strong average number of ordinary shares in issue to reinvest and fund liabilities.
The Group aims and growing market.
This is after the neutralisation to maintain positive cash generation from of foreign exchange movements.
Consistent and sustainable earnings growth, 2 Organic revenue growth 5 Renewal rates on maintenance and good organic revenue growth and strong Organic revenues are derived from our core support contracts business operations, excluding the contribution Customer retention is an important measure of cash generation from our businesses are key from acquisitions and disposals made in the competitiveness in the market.
Renewal rates performance indicators on the health of our current and prior year, along with non-core are calculated as the number of maintenance business.
Over the year, we performed well products.
Current year revenue is compared to and support contracts which were renewed in against these financial benchmarks and in the prior financial year translated on consistent the period divided by the number of contracts line with our forecasts at the beginning of exchange rates to eliminate distortions due to which were potentially renewable in the period.
3 EBITA margin EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, tax We also closely monitor the degree of and amortisation.
This measure excludes the customer satisfaction relating to our products effects of amortisation of acquired intangible and services.
We take over 7.5 million calls a assets and the net amortisation or capitalisation year, or over 32,000 calls a day, from all over of software development expenditure.
This customer feedback helps us margin represents EBITA divided by revenue for the year.
improve our products and services as well as providing a rich source of input on customer satisfaction levels.
A key performance indicator of customer satisfaction is the level of renewal rates on our service support contracts.
Customers who choose to renew their service contracts, upgrade their software or migrate to new Sage products, by definition must have a high degree of satisfaction with Sage.
Our renewal rates historically have been over 80% and in 2007 we again achieved this high rate of customer renewal.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Our business and markets
