46 Governance | Directors report Directors report For the year ended 30 September 2007 The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the Directors and their interests year ended 30 September 2007.
A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company and details of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company Principal activities are given in the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 67.
No director had a The Groups principal activities during the year continued to be the material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or development, distribution and support of business management software contract for services, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time and related products and services for medium-sized and smaller businesses.
Business review As at the date of this report, indemnities are in place under which the The Group achieved a profit before taxation of 223.3m on revenue Company has agreed to indemnify the directors of the Company and the of 1,157.6m.
former directors of the Company who held office during the year ended 30 September 2007, to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys The Business review including key performance indicators can be found on articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in connection with the pages 6 to 41 and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
performance of their duties as a director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are available for review at the registered office Disclaimer of the Company.
The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the members of the Company.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the Employment policy members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for its directors and employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their respective responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, the continued whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly employment of those who may become disabled during their employment disclaimed.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements and the provision of training and career development and promotion, where with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the appropriate.
The Group has continued its policy of employee involvement by Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future making information available to employees on matters of concern to them.
events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ Many employees are stakeholders in the business through participation in materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect share option schemes.
Further details of employment policies are given on knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual pages 38 and 39.
Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardlooking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a Creditor payment policy profit forecast.
Given the international nature of its operations, the Group does not operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers.
Subsidiary operating Results and dividends companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which The results for the year, dividends paid and proposed and the amount business transactions with their suppliers are conducted, including the terms transferred to reserves are set out on page 70.
The Board proposes a final of payment.
It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made dividend of 5.73p per share 2006: 2.51p per share taking the proposed full promptly in accordance with these terms.
Creditor days for the Group have year dividend to 7.00p per share 2006: 3.59p per share.
been calculated at 40 days 2006: 40 days.
Research and development Substantial shareholdings During the year, the Group invested 111.4m 2006: 94.8m in research and At 18 January 2008, the Company had been notified, in accordance with development.
This has resulted in the release of a number of new and updated sections 792 to 820 of the Companies Act 2006, of the following interests products and features as referred to in the Business review on pages 6 to 41. in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Direct Indirect Total Charitable contributions and political donations Name shares % shares % shares % During the year, within the UK, charitable contributions totalling 135,000 were Invesco plc 131,986,001 10.12 131,986,001 10.12 made, which included 77,000 to The Tyne and Wear Community Foundation, 17,000 to The Community Foundation for Greater Manchester, 17,000 Baillie to The Berkshire Community Foundation, and a total of 24,000 smaller Gifford & Co 124,221,242 9.52 124,221,242 9.52 contributions to numerous charities.
No political donations were made in the year.
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 52,530,5374.02 52,530,5374.02 47 Future developments discretion and without giving any reason, decline to register any instrument The Groups future developments are described in the Business review on of transfer of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share or on which pages 6 to 41. the Company has a lien.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the office, Additional information for shareholders or at such other place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK law, accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred and such the following description provides the required information for shareholders other evidence if any as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
This summary is based of the intending transferor or his or her right to transfer the shares.
on the Companys current articles of association the Current Articles, but please note that it is proposed that the Company will adopt new articles of The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held in association the New Articles with effect from the conclusion of the Annual uncertificated form and, subject to the Current Articles, title to uncertificated General Meeting on Thursday 28 February 2008, brief details of which are set shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system and may revoke any out on page 50. such permission.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused where permitted by the Statutes as defined in the Current Articles.
Share capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary Repurchase of Shares shares of 1p each.
The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual General Meeting held on 6 March 2007 to buy back up to 129,428,000 ordinary Rights and obligations attaching to shares shares, which remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next Annual Voting In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the General Meeting on 28 February 2008.
The minimum price which must be Current Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached paid for such shares is 1p and the maximum price payable is the higher of to any class of shares in the Company of which there are none : 5 per cent.
above the average of the mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official On a show of hands, every member present in person shall have one vote: List for the five business days immediately before the purchase is made and and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses.
one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
Amendment of the Companys articles of association No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be made respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or other sum then payable in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 by way of by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued special resolution.
Appointment and replacement of directors Deadlines for voting rights Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting Directors shall be no less than two and no more than fifteen in number.
rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by Meeting to be held on 28 February 2008 are set out in the Notice of meeting, the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until the as set out on pages 122 and 123. next following Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject 1985 and the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Acts, the Company to the Companies Acts and on such terms as they may determine and may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, any director in office who a whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, has been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata or b at the start of business on the date which is 30 clear days prior to the according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
date of the notice convening the Annual General Meeting had held office for more than 30 months since he or she was elected or last re-elected shall in Liquidation Under the Current Articles, if the Company is in liquidation, the either case retire from office but shall be eligible for election or re-election by liquidator may, with the authority of an extraordinary resolution of the Company the shareholders.
The Company may by extraordinary resolution or by and any other authority required by the Statutes as defined in the ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given remove and the Current Articles : Board by unanimous decision may remove any director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of director shall be vacated if: i he or she Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the assets of resigns ii he or she is or may be suffering from a mental disorder: iii he or she the Company: or is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office is vacated: benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, shall think fit.
iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or vi he or Transfer of shares she is removed from office pursuant to the Current Articles.
Subject to the Current Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute 48 Governance | Directors report Powers of the directors auditors.
The directors are required to present to the meeting the accounts The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may together with these reports which are contained in this Annual Report.
exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys memorandum of association, the Current Articles, the Companies Resolution 2 recommends a final dividend of 5.73p per ordinary share Acts and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
The final dividend declared cannot exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
The proposed final dividend, which will be Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust payable on 7 March 2008 to holders of ordinary shares registered at the The trustee of the Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT has agreed close of business on 8 February 2008, will bring the total dividend for the not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
If any offer is year to 7.00p per share.
Last year the total dividend was 3.59p per share.
made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time Resolutions 3 to 7 relate to the election and re-election of certain directors to subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard to the interests of the award the Board.
holders and will have power to consult them to obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to the above the trustee may take the action with respect to the offer In accordance with the Companys articles of association, Mr A J Hobson, it thinks fair.
Ms T Ingram, Mr I Mason, Mr D H Clayton and Mr M E Rolfe will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for Significant agreements re-election.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change Mr A J Hobson has a contract for services with the Company for a fixed period of control of the Company: of three years from 24 May 2007, terminable within that period by twelve months notice from the Company or from him.
Under a 200,000,000 bilateral credit facility agreement dated 18 January 2006 between, amongst others, the Company and Lloyds TSB Bank Plc as Ms T Ingram has a contract for services with the Company for a fixed term facility agent, on a change of control, if the majority lenders so require and of three years from 21 December 2007, terminable within that period by after having consulted with the Company in good faith for not less than 30 six months notice from the Company and one months notice from her.
days following the change of control, the facility agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel the facility and declare all Mr I Mason has a contract for services with the Company for a fixed term outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, and all other amounts of three years from 1 November 2007, terminable within that period by accrued under the finance documents immediately due and payable: and six months notice from the Company and one months notice from him.
Under a 650,000,000 multicurrency revolving credit facility agreement dated 4 August 2006 between, amongst others, the Company and Lloyds Mr D H Clayton has a service contract with the Company, terminable on TSB Bank Plc as facility agent, on a change of control, if the majority twelve months notice from the Company or from him.
lenders so require and after having consulted with the Company in good faith for not less than 20 days following the change of control, the facility Mr M E Rolfe has a contract for services with the Company for a fixed term agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, of three years from 1 December 2007, terminable within that period by cancel the facility and declare all outstanding loans, together with the six months notice from the Company and one months notice from him.
accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued under the finance documents immediately due and payable.
Resolution 3 relates to the re-election of Mr A J Hobson.
Mr Hobson joined the Board in June 2004 becoming Chairman in May 2007.
He is also Under the terms of both credit facility agreements, a change of control Chairman of Northern Foods plc and a non-executive director of HBOS plc occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of where he chairs the Audit Committee and Glas Cymru.
appointment as a non-executive director, Mr Hobson chaired the Audit Committee of the Company although he will step down from this role in April Annual General Meeting 2008.
Mr Hobson became Chairman of the Board after the resignation of Notice of the twentieth Annual General Meeting of The Sage Group plc to Sir Julian Horn-Smith in April 2007.
Sir Julian had joined the Board in March be held on Thursday 28 February 2008 is set out on pages 122 and 123.
Given the executive search A form of proxy is enclosed for members who wish to use one.
It should be undertaken by external search consultants at the time of the appointment returned so as to be with the Companys registrars no later than 10.00am on of Sir Julian it was not felt appropriate to appoint such consultants prior to 26 February 2008.
Shareholders with internet access may register their voting Mr Hobsons appointment.
instructions online for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
They may register their vote electronically by going to www.
They will be Resolution 4 relates to the re-election of Ms T Ingram.
Ms Ingram joined the required to key in the three security numbers printed on the form of proxy to Board in December 2004 as a non-executive director.
She is responsible access the voting site.
CREST members may appoint their proxy or proxies for WPP plcs Procter & Gamble business worldwide.
She is also Executive electronically via Equiniti ID 7RA01.
Vice President, Executive Managing Director of Grey Global, Chairman of Visit London and sits on the Development Board for the Royal Court Theatre.
The Resolutions to be put at the Annual General Meeting are in the Notice of Prior to Grey, Ms Ingram was President of the Henley Centre and marketing Annual General Meeting set out on pages 122 and 123. insights company Added Value.
Previously, Ms Ingram worked at Saatchi and Saatchi for 15 years, rising to the role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Resolution 1 is to receive and consider the audited accounts for the year of Saatchi and Saatchi UK.
ended 30 September 2007 together with the reports of the directors and 49 Resolution 5 relates to the election of Mr I Mason.
Mr Mason joined the Board Groups employee share schemes and do not intend to issue more than 7.5% on 1 November 2007 as a non-executive director following the appointment of the issued share capital of the Company under the authority to allot equity of an external search consultancy to identify potential non-executive directors.
securities for cash in any three year period without prior consultation with the He has extensive knowledge of technology industries as Chief Executive of relevant investor groups.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
Electrocomponents plc, the listed distributor of components to development and maintenance engineers in all types of business around the world.
Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Meeting will be proposed to continue to enable the Company to purchase its own shares in accordance with section Resolution 6 relates to the election of Mr D H Clayton as a director of the 166 of the Companies Act 1985 on such terms and in such manner as the Company.
After a number of senior executive roles Mr Clayton joined BZW in directors determine, subject to the following: 1995 where, after its merger with CSFB in 1997, he was Managing Director and Head of European Technology Research until 2004.
He joined the The price which may be paid for each ordinary share will not be less than Board of Sage in June 2004 as a non-executive director, becoming senior the nominal value of the share and will not exceed the higher of 5% above independent non-executive director in September 2006.
In July 2007 the average of the mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company Mr Clayton stepped down from his non-executive role, rejoining the Board as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five in October 2007 in the executive role of Group Strategy and Mergers and business days before the purchase is made and that amount stipulated Acquisitions Director.
by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003, in each case exclusive of any expenses payable by the Company: Resolution 7 relates to the election of Mr M E Rolfe.
After a review undertaken The maximum aggregate number of shares that may be purchased by external search consultants, Mr Rolfe joined the Board as a non-executive pursuant to this authority shall be limited to 130,416,015 shares which is director on 1 December 2007.
A fellow of the Institute of Chartered equivalent to approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital Accountants, Mr Rolfe has recent and relevant financial experience having as at 30 September 2007: been finance director of Gallaher Group plc from 2000 to 2007 and brings The authority will remain in force until the conclusion of the next Annual to the Board significant financial experience in a large multi-national and General Meeting of the Company but will terminate on 31 March 2009 expanding business.
if the Annual General Meeting has not been held by that date.
Further biographical details of Messrs Hobson, Mason, Clayton and Rolfe The Company may agree before the authority terminates to purchase and Ms Ingram are set out on pages 44 and 45. ordinary shares where the purchase will or may be executed after the authority terminates either in whole or in part.
The Company may complete The Nomination Committee, which is the Committee of the Board which such a purchase even though the authority has ended.
considers the balance of the Board and the mix of skills, knowledge and experience of its members, has considered and approved the re-election The Company has no present intention to exercise this authority, nor were of Ms Ingram and of Mr Hobson and the election of Messrs Mason, any shares repurchased in the year to 30 September 2007 under previous Clayton and Rolfe.
All the proposed appointees have been subject to a formal authorities.
In any event, the power given by the resolution will only be evaluation procedure in the last twelve months other than Mr Mason and exercised if the directors are satisfied that any purchase will increase the Mr Rolfe who joined the Board in November 2007 and December 2007 earnings per share of the ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase respectively.
Following that procedure the Chairman confirms the continuing and, accordingly, that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders.
commitment and contribution of Ms Ingram and Mr Clayton to their roles and The directors will also give careful consideration to gearing levels of the recommends their re-election together with that of Messrs Mason and Rolfe.
Company and its general financial position.
The purchase price would be Mr T C W Ingram, the Senior Independent Director, also confirms the paid out of distributable profits.
continuing commitment and contribution to his role of Mr A J Hobson.
A listed company may hold shares in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling Resolution 8 relates to the re-appointment of the auditors.
them, following a purchase of own shares by the Company in accordance  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue with the Companies Act 1985.
Shares held in treasury in this manner will be in office.
available for resale by the Company or may be transferred for the purpose of or pursuant to an employees share scheme.
Accordingly, if the directors Resolution 9 is to approve the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 67. exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 12, the Company will have The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations the option of holding those shares in treasury, rather than cancelling them.
require that a report, prepared in accordance with the Regulations, is put Your Board will have regard to any guidelines published by any of the to a vote of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
investor groups in force at the time of any such purchase, holding or re-sale of treasury shares.
Resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed to enable the directors to renew their existing power to allot unissued shares in the capital of the Company up The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares and awards to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,347,333 representing 33.3% of the to be satisfied by newly issued ordinary shares under other long-term nominal value of the Companys issued share capital on 18 January 2008, incentive plans of the Group that were outstanding at 18 January 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this document and to allot the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this report was 54,109,820. equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 652,100 The proportion of issued share capital that they represented at that time representing 4.9% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on was 4.1% and the proportion of issued share capital that they will represent 18 January 2008, the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this if the full authority to purchase shares existing and being sought is used document.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual is 4.6%.
General Meeting of the Company.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising these authorities other than in connection with the 50 Governance | Directors report Resolution 13 will be proposed to adopt new articles of association the Votes of members Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to New Articles with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are on 28 February 2008.
The Companies Act 2006 received Royal Assent in only entitled to vote on a poll.
A proxy also has a statutory right under the November 2006.
The Companies Act 2006 represents a major reform of Companies Act 2006 to speak at any general meeting.
The time limits for UK companies legislation and is being brought into force on a staged the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered basis between January 2007 and October 2009.
It is proposed that, at this by the Companies Act 2006 so that the articles cannot provide that they years Annual General Meeting, the Company updates its current articles of should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case association the Current Articles primarily to take account of changes in of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours English company law brought about by certain provisions of the Companies before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays Act 2006 in force on 1 October 2007. being permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Under the Companies Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also Act 2006, multiple corporate representatives may be appointed.
The New some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Articles reflect these new provisions.
Companies Act 2006 have not been noted below.
Directors indemnities The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas Articles which duplicate statutory provisions widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors.
Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the In particular, a company can now indemnify a director of a company that Companies Act 2006 are in the main to be removed in the New Articles.
is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme against liability incurred This is in line with the approach advocated by the Government that statutory in connection with the companys activities as trustee of that scheme.
provisions should not be duplicated in a companys constitution.
Certain This is reflected in the New Articles.
The opportunity is also being taken examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions to clarify that, subject to the Companies Act 2006, the Company may and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general grant indemnities to directors of associated companies.
The main changes made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
Liens on shares, calls on shares and forfeiture of shares The Current Form of resolution The Current Articles contain a provision that, where Articles contain provisions dealing with liens on shares, calls on shares for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary and the forfeiture of shares.
These provisions have been removed in the resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary resolution is New Articles as the Company does not have any partly paid shares and required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision is being the directors do not envisage using their powers under such provisions.
removed as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the Companies Act 2006.
Over the coming year, the Company in conjunction with its legal advisers intends to conduct a further review of the Articles, incorporating any further Convening and notice of general meetings It is proposed that the changes which are necessary or desirable following the full implementation provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general of the Companies Act 2006.
Any proposed amendments will be put to meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings be shareholders at future Annual General Meetings.
Copies of the Current Articles removed in the New Articles because the relevant matters are provided for and New Articles and comparison documents showing all the proposed in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular a general meeting other than an changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection during normal annual general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened business hours at the registered office of the Company and at the offices on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
of its solicitors, Allen & Overy LLP One Bishops Square, London E1 6AO The New Articles also reflect the fact that the chairman of a general until 28 February 2008 or upon request from the Company Secretary.
meeting no longer has a casting vote.
Copies will also be available at the Annual General Meeting from 9.00am until its conclusion.
Quorum requirements The Companies Act 2006 provides in general terms that the quorum for a general meeting be calculated by reference By Order of the Board to the numbers of qualifying persons who are present at the meeting, which includes an individual who is a member of the Company, a person M J Robinson authorised to act as the representative of a corporation, and a person Secretary appointed as proxy of a member.
As before, it is proposed that the quorum 18 January 2008 for a general meeting will be two but, in line with the Companies Act 2006, the New Articles make clear that there will be no double counting for qualifying persons who are representatives of the same corporation or proxies of the same member.
