54 Serco Group plc Directors profiles From left to right: Joanne Roberts Company Secretary Leonard V. Broese van Groenou Non-Executive Director Christopher Hyman Chief Executive Andrew Jenner Finance Director Kevin Beeston Chairman David Richardson Non-Executive Director Margaret, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame Non-Executive Director Grant Rumbles Chief Operating Officer Directors profiles Kevin Beeston FCMA 45 Christopher Hyman CA SA 1, 4 Chairman 44 Chair of the Nomination and Training Chief Executive and Development Committees Christopher Hyman was appointed Chief Executive of Serco Group plc in 2002.
Kevin Beeston became Non-Executive Chairman of Serco Group plc in He is also Non-Executive Director of September 2007, having previously served United Business Media plc, the Prince of as the Groups Executive Chairman, Chief Wales charity In Kind Direct, Habitat for Executive and Finance Director.
Humanity and the Borneo Tropical Rainforest Foundation.
He is also a He is a member of the CBI Presidents member of the UK Governments Honours Committee and Chairman of the CBIs Advisory Committee for Economy.
Public Services Strategy Board, which promotes the role business has in Christopher graduated from Natal transforming the UKs public services and University in Durban, South Africa and he is a Commissioner for the TUCs qualified as a chartered accountant, Commission on Vulnerable Employment.
serving with Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young before joining Serco in 1994 as the In addition, he is the Non-Executive European Finance Director.
He was Chairman of Partnerships in Care, Infinitas appointed Group Company Secretary in Learning and Domestic and General Ltd, 1996, Corporate Finance Director in 1997 and holds Non-Executive Director and Group Finance Director in April 1999. positions on the boards of IMI plc and He is responsible for setting the vision and Ipswich Town Football Club plc.
Directors profiles Serco Group plc 55 Andrew Jenner ACA 39 Leonard V. Broese van David Richardson BSc FCA Finance Director Groenou MSc 61 56 Andrew Jenner joined Serco in 1996 1, 2, 3, 4 Non-Executive Director 1, 2, 3, 4 Non-Executive Director having previously worked for Unilever and Chair of the Remuneration Chair of the Audit Committee Deloitte & Touche LLP.
He has held a Committee number of positions at Serco including David Richardson joined Serco as a NonLeonard V. Broese van Groenou joined Group Financial Controller and Corporate Executive Director in June 2003.
He has Serco as a Non-Executive Director in April Finance Director.
Andrew became Group previously held the position of Finance 2006.
Leonard was previously Vice Finance Director and joined the Board in Director of Whitbread, where his roles in a President Human Resources and member May 2002.
As well as setting the Groups 20-year career have included eight years of the corporate executive committee of financial strategy, Andrew is responsible as Strategy Director.
David was Pennsylvania-based Air Products, a New for its PFI investment business and the instrumental in transforming Whitbread York listed company serving customers in development of risk management across from a brewing and pubs company into a technology, energy, healthcare and the Group.
He shares responsibility for market leader in hotels, restaurants and industrial markets worldwide, where he our relationship with shareholders and the leisure clubs.
His career at City with the Chief Executive.
David is a Non-Executive Director of Dairy Air Products spans numerous international Crest Group Plc, Forth Ports Plc, Tomkins roles including financial control, business plc and The Restaurant Group plc.
planning, operational management and Thomas A Corcoran BA PhD human resources.
63 Grant Rumbles 50 1, 2, 3, 4 Non-Executive Director Chief Operating Officer Baroness Ford of Thomas Corcoran joined Serco in Grant Rumbles is Chief Operating Officer Cunninghame MA MPhil December 2007 as a Non-Executive of Serco Group plc.
He brings 40 years of global 50 Having joined Serco in 1982, Grant has business experience, particularly in the US 1, 2, 3, 4 Senior Independent Director led several Serco divisions including aerospace and defence contracting Margaret Ford joined Serco in October Continental Europe, Middle East and the industry.
He is currently Senior Advisor to 2003 as a Non-Executive Director.
She Groups IT and BPO division.
private equity firm The Carlyle Group and spent her early career in a variety of roles President of Corcoran Enterprises, LLC, a either in the public sector or as an advisor In 2001 he was appointed to the Global management consulting firm.
to Government and is a specialist in Management Board and in 2004 he was leadership development, culture change promoted to Chief Operating Officer, Thomas has held senior positions in the and public sector reform.
From 1997 to responsible for the day-to-day operations aerospace, defence and electronics 2000 she was Chairman of Lothian Health of the Group.
Grant is also responsible for industries including Chairman and Chief Board and from 2000 to 2003 was a Nonleading the development of best practice, Executive Officer of Allegheny Teledyne Executive Director of Ofgem.
From 2000 corporate responsibility and sustainable and President and Chief Operating Officer to 2005 Margaret was a Director of Good growth across the Group.
of Lockheed Martins Electronic and Practice Limited, the publishing company Space Sectors.
During his 26 years with Grant is a member of the Executive Board that she founded.
General Electric, Thomas held senior of the Princes Trust Construction and management positions including Vice In December 2007 Margaret retired from Business Services Leadership Group.
President and General Manager of GE's English Partnerships, the national Aerospace operations.
regeneration agency, after six highly successful years.
Margaret is Managing He is also Non-Executive Director of Aer Director, Social Infrastructure and Lingus Ltd, L3 Communications Holdings Development, Royal Bank of Canada Inc, Labarge Inc, REMEC Inc and Capital Markets and Chairman of Irvine ARINC Inc. Bay Urban Regeneration Company.
1 Member of the Training and Development Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee 4 Member of the Nomination Committee
