Serco Group plc 1 Our customers primarily national and local governments face profound challenges.
They must improve vital services, despite intense budget pressures.
They must adapt to citizens' rising expectations and make services flexible and responsive.
They must meet sustainability targets and address the imperatives of security and safety.
In order to meet these challenges, governments are turning to private sector partners who can help them transform services and reduce costs.
Major private companies also face issues of cost, efficiency and quality, meaning they too can benefit from our work.
This creates strong and growing demand for Serco's expertise, and we are ideally placed to respond.
For more than 40 years, we have built up unrivalled capabilities and broadened our business and addressable markets into sectors ranging from air traffic control to running scientific establishments.
2 Serco Group plc 2 1 3 What Serco offers Sercos vision and strategy Making strategic acquisitions: While we are primarily focused on organic We can operate in a Our vision is to be the growth, we make acquisitions to acquire broad range of sectors leading service company new skills and to enter new markets where we see strong opportunities.
because our core in our chosen markets.
Developing new models: We respond product is people-led Leading means that we want to be the to emerging opportunities by finding new best partner to work with, the company change management.
This may mean people aspire to work for, and the collaboration between our divisions, We analyse a customers problems and company which delivers superior returns bringing together skills and experience produce a bespoke solution, with the to shareholders.
Our chosen markets are which few other companies can replicate.
improved management of people at its those which promise strong revenue Or it may mean partnering with our heart.
growth, attractive margins and the ability customer or the voluntary sector.
Our to offer good working conditions for our We redesign organisations to remove ability to lead change keeps us at the people.
bureaucracy, improve processes and forefront of our markets.
liberate people to deliver their best.
Our strategy for achieving this vision has We introduce technology and continue four elements: to invest during the life of the contract.
Building a balanced portfolio: We aim And crucially we instil our culture and to reduce risk and increase opportunity by values.
Our governing principles and building a balanced contract portfolio, public-service ethos focus us on delivering spread across markets.
This reduces our the best for our customers, our people exposure to market fluctuations, enables and the wider community.
us to select the best opportunities Building long-term customer relationships whichever market they are in, and allows is fundamental to Serco.
This means us to transfer expertise from one market meeting and often exceeding our to another.
We invest in Maintaining high rebid and new win relationships by providing innovation and rates: Our service excellence results in a continuous improvement.
We devolve rebid win rate above 90%.
We also win responsibility, giving contract directors one in two new contracts, reflecting our the freedom to anticipate and respond ability to select only those opportunities to customers changing requirements.
where we can differentiate ourselves.
The Serco Management System, which controls how we operate, ensures that these actions are also in the best interests of Serco and its shareholders.
Serco Group plc 3 4 5 6 Sercos track record of success The future Our emphasis on bringing We are optimistic about service to life for our future.
Our markets customers leads directly continue to grow strongly to our financial success, and offer substantial and we have grown opportunities, both in the quickly in recent years.
UK and increasingly Since we listed in 1988, we have overseas.
We also have consistently delivered double-digit revenue stronger capabilities growth.
We have been able to leverage this scale and manage our contract across more sectors to portfolio, driving our margins higher.
At the meet our customers same time, we have delivered consistent improvements in our free cash flow.
Our success is also recognised by others.
Sercos substantial order book contributes We are frequently voted the UKs leading to excellent visibility of future revenues support services company in and our pipeline of identified opportunities Management Todays Most Admired reinforces our confidence.
The success we have achieved to date underpins our confidence of delivering double-digit revenue growth for the foreseeable future.
The quality of our opportunities and our ongoing portfolio management and efficiency improvement will also allow us to further increase our margins.
1 Support services at Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital 2 The Ghan transcontinental service in Australia 3 Court escort service in London 4 Multi-activity contract at RNAS Yeovilton 5 Maintenance at the Atomic Weapons Establishment 6 Running education services in Walsall
