6 Serco Group plc Our business Our business We organise our business around dedicated market expertise in a variety of sectors: Civil Government, Defence, Transport and Science Civil Government Revenue by market 2007 Sercos work in civil government encompasses home affairs, information Civil Government 34% and communications technology ICT, 2006 business process outsourcing, education Defence 26% and childrens services, health, integrated facilities management and consulting.
25% 34% Our home affairs work includes managing prisons in the UK, Australia and Germany, 2,548m 2,811m electronically monitoring offenders, developing systems for law enforcement 25% agencies, controlling immigration and improving civil resilience.
16% Science 17% We run all education services in two local authority areas and all childrens services Transport 23% in one area, providing services for over 500 schools and around 20,000 children.
Our expanding health business provides Revenue by geography 2007 clinical services to over two million people in a range of primary and community Asia Pacific 6% settings.
2006 North America 11% We use our ICT skills and business 6% process knowledge to deliver better, faster and cheaper ICT solutions to local 12% Europe & government, schools and blue chip Middle East 8% 8% private sector customers.
Our integrated 2,548m facilities management business provides 2,811m environmental, streetscene and other direct services to councils, and also works with hospitals and private customers.
Our consulting capability raises awareness UK 75% 74% of Serco and enhances our reputation with potential and existing customers by providing high-value advisory services.
Revenue 952m 8.8% Our business Serco Group plc 7 Defence Transport Science Serco is a major provider of support Serco is a major provider of transport Serco is a world leader in managing both services to the armed forces of the UK, services.
With our partner, NedRailways, science-based organisations and the US, Germany and Australia.
we run Merseyrail one of the UKs best process of developing, transferring and performing franchises and Northern Rail, applying knowledge.
In the UK, we provide training, engineering which is the UKs largest network.
and operational support to the Royal Air In Australia, Serco owns and operates We manage the National Physical Force and the flight arms of the British Great Southern Rail, including The Ghan Laboratory NPL, which is one of the Army and Royal Navy.
We put the Royal and Indian Pacific trans-continental services.
Navy to sea at its three main UK bases, It is our responsibility to maximise the operate and maintain strategic defence We have substantial experience of positive impact of NPLs mission in assets such as secure satellite operating light rail systems, including the measurement standards and science, communications and the Defence award-winning Docklands Light Railway in for business and government.
Academy of the United Kingdom, and London.
In March 2008, we will be signing provide systems engineering, safety the contract to operate and maintain the We have an integral role in the UK assurance and risk management services.
Dubai metro system which is planned to defence and civil nuclear industries.
be the largest driverless metro system in Since 2000, Serco has been entrusted In North America we are gaining critical the world.
This breakthrough contract with the management of the UK Atomic mass with strength in providing enterprise substantially increases Sercos transport Weapons Establishment which is management, engineering, logistics, sector presence in the Middle East.
responsible for providing the warheads economic cost analysis and human for the UKs nuclear deterrent.
We do this resources services to the military, in Serco is also a UK market leader in traffic as part of AWE Management Limited, a particular the US Army and US Navy.
management systems, including the 25-year joint venture with Lockheed National Traffic Control Centre for Martin UK and British Nuclear Group We provide training, logistics and England, which helps motorists to plan BNG.
In addition we have provided operational support services to the their journeys and make best use of the independent specialist nuclear safety Australian Department of Defence, with road network.
advice to the Royal Navy in support of its a presence on every defence base in nuclear submarine fleet for nearly half a Australia, and to the German Bundeswehr, In air, we are one of the worlds largest century.
including our work at one of Europes private sector providers of air traffic most advanced combat training centres.
control services, with operations in the We also offer specialist technical support UK, Middle East and the US.
to the UKs civil nuclear industry, providing safety, environmental, risk and asset management advice and operational solutions across the UKs civil nuclear sites.
