52 Serco Group plc Directors report Directors report Annual review and accounts Substantial shareholdings The Directors have pleasure in presenting As at 25 February 2008 the Company had the Annual Review and Accounts of the been notified under Rule 5 of the Group for the year ended 31 December Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the 2007.
Comparative figures used in this Financial Services Authority of the following report are for the year ended holdings of voting rights in its shares: No of shares 31 December 2006. millions % held FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 48.0 9.90 HBOS plc 20.5 4.22 Activities Resolution Investment Services Limited 20.1 4.15 Serco Group plc is a holding company AEGON UK plc Group of Companies 19.8 4.09 which operates via its subsidiaries and Legal & General Group plc 19.3 3.98 its joint ventures to improve services by managing people, processes, technology and assets more effectively.
Serco The Directors are unaware of any supports governments, agencies and restrictions on transfer of securities in the companies by offering operational, Company or on voting rights.
There are management and consulting expertise also no known agreements between in the aviation, defence, education, health, holders of the companys securities which home affairs, local government, nuclear, may result in such restrictions.
science, technology, transport and commercial sectors.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 8 to Directors 9 and the Business Review on pages 10 The current members of the Board to 42 report on the activities during the together with biographical details of each year, post balance sheet events and Director are set out on pages 54 to 55. likely future developments.
The Grant Rumbles was appointed to the Board information in these reports which is as Chief Operating Officer on 3 July 2007. required to fulfil the requirements of the DeAnne Julius retired as a Non-Executive Business Review is incorporated in this Director on 29 October 2007.
Thomas A Directors Report by reference.
Corcoran was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 3 December 2007.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of Directors interests the Company, together with the details of With the exception of the Executive shares issued during the year is shown in Directors service contracts and the note 30 to the financial statements.
Non-Executive Directors letters of The powers of the Directors to issue or appointment, there are no contracts in buy back shares is restricted to that which any Director has an interest.
approved at the Companys Annual Certain change of control conditions are General Meeting.
included in the service contracts of Directors which provide compensation or reduction of notice periods in the event of Dividends a change of control of the Company.
An interim dividend of 1.23p 2006 Details of the Directors interests in the 1.05p per ordinary share was paid on 17 ordinary shares and options over the October 2007.
The Directors recommend ordinary shares of the Company are set a final dividend of 3.02p 2006 2.55p out in the Remuneration Report on pages per ordinary share, which if approved by 57 to 70. shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 21 May 2008, to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 March 2008.
Directors report Serco Group plc 53 allows improvements to be delivered in The value of this investment at Annual general meeting business performance as well as terms and 1,066,527 2006: 942,340 represents The Annual General Meeting of the conditions of employment.
Where 0.9% of the Groups pre-tax profit, and Company will be held at the Queen employees choose not to belong to a trade represents a 13.1% increase on Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London union, employee communication forums investment made in 2006. on 13 May 2008 at 11.00am.
such as works councils exist to ensure During the year neither the Company nor The Notice of the Meeting together with involvement of staff within the business.
the Group made political donations and explanatory notes is sent to shareholders Participation by staff in the success of they intend to continue with this policy.
the Group is encouraged by the availability of sharesave schemes, and a share option scheme for senior Financial statements Financial risk policies management, which effectively aligns At the date of this report, as far as each A summary of the Groups treasury their interests with those of shareholders Director is aware, there is no relevant policies and objectives relating to financial by requiring that performance criteria are audit information of which the Groups risk management, including exposure to achieved prior to exercise.
Each Director has associated risks, is on pages 101 to 104. taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to Corporate responsibility make himself herself aware of any Employment policies The Company has implemented across the relevant audit information and to The Board is committed to maintaining a Group policies on environmental, health establish that the Groups auditors are working environment where staff are and safety matters and operates an Ethics aware of that information.
and Business Conduct Policy Standard.
Group companies and divisions operate Further information on environmental and within a framework of human resources Auditors employee health and safety matters is policies, practices and regulations Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed contained in the Corporate Responsibility appropriate to their own market sector their willingness to continue in office as Report which is also available online at and country of operation.
auditors and a resolution to re-appoint www.
The Group is committed to ensuring equal them will be proposed at the forthcoming opportunity, honouring the rights of the Annual General Meeting.
individual and fostering partnership and Creditor payment policies trust in every working relationship.
Policies Approved by the Board of Directors and The Group requires each of its business and procedures for recruitment, training signed on its behalf by: units to negotiate and agree terms and and career development promote equality conditions for payment for the supply of of opportunity regardless of gender, capital and revenue items just as keenly as sexual orientation, age, marital status, they negotiate prices and other disability, race, religion or other beliefs commercial matters.
and ethnic or national origin.
Suppliers are made aware of the terms Joanne Roberts The Group gives full consideration to and the way in which disputes are to be Secretary applications for employment, career settled.
Payment is then made in development and promotion, received 27 February 2008 accordance with those terms.
from the disabled and offers employment when suitable opportunities arise.
The Groups average creditor payment If employees become disabled during their terms in 2007 were 24 days 2006: 26 service with the Group, wherever days : Company 16 days 2006: 20 days.
practicable, arrangements are made to continue their employment and training.
The Group remains proud of its record of Donations managing employee relations and continues The Group continues to encourage all to believe that the structure of individual and staff to participate in their local collective consultation and negotiation are communities and has a process to best developed at a local level.
capture investment on a worldwide basis.
This measure is based upon the Business Over the years, the Group has in The Community BiTC reporting format.
demonstrated that working with trade unions and creating effective partnerships
