Business review Resources Serco Group plc 31 Resources Our people the chance to brush up their literacy, We know that our people are the key to numeracy and language skills while our continuing success and so we have continuing with their workplace learning.
developed a comprehensive suite of At the end of 2007, more than 3,000 of employment policies to support our our people had been assessed with nearly employees, wherever they are in the 500 achieving a qualification.
The Pulse Awards are designed to The key employment policies are made celebrate the very best qualities and available through line managers, human achievements of Serco people, our resources teams and our intranet.
The awards are include policies covering diversity and closely linked to our four governing equality, for employees having children, principles.
They recognise people who resolving issues, health and safety, excel at innovation, inspire through their confidentiality, security and ethics and leadership, demonstrate outstanding time off work.
commitment and make an exceptional impact on communities, the environment As an international Group, we experience or issues such as safety and ethics.
differing employment legislation, customs In addition, the special heart award and practice in different parts of the celebrates the most heroic acts of bravery world.
Our approach is always to respect and courage, where people save lives or local differences but not to fall short of overcome formidable obstacles to achieve minimum standards.
Our reputation Our performance against our policies, Our reputation for delivering excellent and the implications of changing service and our ability to build long-term legislation and best practice, is monitored relationships is behind the consistent by our human resources function.
Where success Serco has enjoyed to date.
we need to change an approach, then appropriate communications and training Customers and potential customers tell us are implemented.
that corporate reputation is one of their key criteria in the selection and retention Serco has developed bespoke of private-sector partners.
As a result, we programmes to assist people working in are taking steps to measure customer management and front line roles.
advocacy and corporate reputation Our business managers programme consistently on a group-wide basis.
leads to a Diploma in Management from the Chartered Management Institute, We continue to build our reputation helping our managers develop their amongst business stakeholders through a business insight and people skills.
We communication programme which also have a groundbreaking relationship includes the publication of thought-leading with the Institute of Directors, which research and attendance at seminars and underpins the strategic role of contract conferences.
However, we recognise that and divisional board membership.
delivering value to customers and citizens by improving services efficacy and Our Skills for You programme was efficiency is the most significant shaper of developed in partnership with UK our reputation.
Government departments, trade unions and training providers.
