14 Serco Group plc Business review Sercos strategy Sercos strategy has four key elements, which bring benefits to our customers and hence to our shareholders.
The four elements are to: 1 Build a balanced portfolio of market facing businesses This allows us to select the best opportunities for growth, to reduce our risk by avoiding concentration of revenue in a small number of contracts, and to share good practice and experience across the Group.
2 Maintain high rebid and new win rates We maintain high win rates through building long-term customer relationships and by meeting and often exceeding customer expectations.
This, along with our reputation with existing customers, helps us to expand the scope and scale of contracts during their life, retain contracts at rebid, and win new contracts.
3 Make strategic acquisitions to obtain new skills or enter markets Organic growth has been the principal driver of Sercos success.
However, we also make acquisitions to bring in new skills which will be important for future growth or to enter new markets where we see strong prospects.
4 Develop new models in existing and emerging markets We are constantly looking at new ways to deliver services in response to our customers changing needs.
Examples of how we do this include: thorough collaboration between our divisions: partnering with third parties including the public, private and voluntary sectors: and the development of new frameworks such as payment on outcomes.
Business review Sercos strategy Serco Group plc 15 We have grown strongly and consistently in the 20 years since we listed.
By following our strategy we believe we will continue to grow strongly, since each of the four elements of our strategy contributes to one or more of the following outcomes: Reducing our exposure to market fluctuations Our balanced portfolio and our high rebid and new contract win rates give high visibility of future revenue and protect against fluctuations in any one of our markets.
Innovation allows us to enter new markets and find new ways of delivering services to customers.
Strengthening our position in our chosen markets We focus our resources on those markets where we see the best prospects, and innovate to satisfy our customers needs.
We supplement our organic growth with carefully selected acquisitions to expand our footprint.
Developing new skills and capabilities for the future We constantly invest in our skills and capabilities to strengthen our market position.
We acquire to enhance our capabilities and to allow us to enter new markets which helps us secure opportunities for growth in the future.
Strategic New Balanced High models portfolio win rates acquisitions
