28 Serco Group plc Business review Market development Market development Sercos markets continue to expand rapidly, as local and national governments face budget deficits and ever-increasing pressure from citizens to improve public services.
Governments increasingly recognise the UK local authorities face major challenges, benefits of opening up public service creating opportunities for Serco.
The monopolies to competition and innovation.
Governments 2007 Comprehensive A review by the Serco Institute of 200 Spending Review requires councils to government and academic studies deliver 3% annual efficiency savings, a spanning 30 years, 12 countries and five degree of financial pressure new to many sectors found that competition resulted in council leaders and chief executives.
typical cost savings of 20%, with savings They will look to service providers for as high as 30-40% in some cases.
Value for money in public services is driven In addition, local government by innovation and smarter ways of reorganisation is creating a number of working.
In the UK, the Government has unitary authorities with greater launched a major study to help it responsibilities.
This inevitably involves understand the contribution of the public back-office consolidation, in particular in service industry and how the Government IT-based services.
Serco is well placed to can support it, including the potential to help.
Finally, local authorities are being export the UKs expertise in this area.
given a greater remit to shape their area and deliver local priorities, notably through Turning to individual markets, we expect agencies such as the police, health and to see continued strong growth in home highways.
Sercos track record in reducing affairs.
In the UK we are well established crime and in improving the environment, across all areas and we are expanding our school performance and transport gives footprint in Australia.
Key drivers include us a pivotal role, with our broad the threat of global terrorism, concern understanding of the local agenda placing about immigration, perceptions of rising us in a unique position in the market.
crime and the continued rise in prisoner numbers.
These will increase In defence, the public debate in the UK governments use of the private sector to about the level of funding to equip and provide capacity and to develop new support the armed forces has intensified capabilities to meet new threats.
Our core business lies in helping government achieve greater Health and welfare to work offer major value for money, and it is on that basis future growth areas for Serco.
The UKs that we have continued to work with the National Health Service needs to deliver MoD as it refreshes its Defence Industrial efficiency savings and meet stretching Strategy.
targets and Serco can play a critical supporting role.
We plan to offer better value for money clinical services to the primary sector and to provide fullymanaged healthcare solutions that deliver the information and support needed by clinicians and patients.
The UK Government is also increasingly looking to the private sector to help the jobless move back into employment.
We are well positioned to play a role in this important new market.
Business review Market development Serco Group plc 29 Our track record in the provision of We have engaged with the UK We continue to study the potential for our operational support services to the front Government on future options for its service-led model to be introduced into a line commands and our independence trading funds and agencies.
These number of new markets.
While many of from equipment manufacturers, position options include the Government-Owned, these markets are at an early stage, us well to deliver significant growth.
Contractor-Operated GOCO model, of China, India and South Africa look likely to This will be achieved by using our role as which our successful operations at AWE present opportunities in the medium term.
an integrator of people, infrastructure, and the National Physical Laboratory are training and technology to help the MoD examples.
GOCO is an attractive deliver through-life capability management, operating model where it is strategically and by leveraging our extensive important to retain a public stake in an capabilities in operational support and organisation, and we will continue to work training into new overseas markets.
with Government to examine its full potential while exploring other contractual We have a significant position in the US mechanisms.
defence market, and have broadened our offerings, which should serve us well as In the UK NDA market, our primary focus that sector continues to evolve to an is on producing a competitive bid for imminent post-Iraq era.
SBB Nuclear, the consortium of is a continuing demand for our services to Serco, Bechtel and The Babcock & military personnel and their families, where Wilcox Company, is one of four invited by we have a solid track record.
We are wellthe NDA to submit final tenders.
Tender positioned to provide logistics services as responses are scheduled to be returned the military and other government to the NDA in the spring of 2008, with the agencies face greater pressures to reduce announcement of the winning bidder costs, and for advanced port security and planned for the summer of 2008. other anti-terrorism force protection SBB Nuclear is a unique and highly applications, an area where we see effective team, with a proven track record continued emphasis in the near future.
of safely and securely delivering high performance at AWE and at nuclear sites In transport, we continue to monitor in the US, through partnership with opportunities to address congestion and employees and local communities.
We have built Together our consortium has experience strong links with customers in the UK and of successful transition at 26 major sites around the world to further this.
We look forward to United Arab Emirates there are substantial continuing to work with the NDA and the opportunities to grow our presence in the stakeholders at Sellafield through the transport market with the development of concluding stages of the competition the Dubai Metro.
This system will be process.
There are also a number of other expanded over time and we anticipate a opportunities, including the decommissioning growing pipeline of opportunities with the of the Magnox reactors, Dounreay and rapid expansion of Dubai and further other smaller sites.
We will continue to transport innovation across the Emirates, review the attractiveness of these in particular Abu Dhabi.
Our reputation for opportunities as the market develops.
service delivery and working closely with clients is bringing a substantial range of opportunities across both light rail and traffic control systems that fit within our strategy.
