SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 04 Group Overview MARKET SECTORS CITY CENTRE COMMERCIAL & RETAIL STADIUMS LEISURE OFFICES TRANSPORT BRIDGES Major redevelopment in The Group has an This sector has grown Commercial offices in A major interest for all Watson Steel has cities and out-of-town unrivalled record in the significantly in recent London and throughout companies within the developed the shopping facilities are design, engineering and years and continues to the UK have become a Group is transport and engineering skills and challenging projects in building of many of the be an important one for core of the Groups related facilities.
Rowen manufacturing capability their own right, requiring UKs best known venues.
In response to and Watson have to provide clients with different skills and As specialists in the successes include ski the challenge, new successfully, and for solutions to the most service solutions.
sector, it has provided domes, exhibition products, processes and some time, been key demanding requirements timely and cost-effective centres and recently the methods have been partners in many in this sector.
Project management and solutions for long roof of Wimbledon developed.
Performance prestigious projects, supply chain linkage are spanning, architecturally Centre Court.
benefits from including Air and Rail vital aspects in the innovative structures.
provision of successful with other initiatives, execution.
Much of the Groups have underpinned the success stems from its Groups success in this understanding of client sector.
needs, coupled with its relevant resource and capability.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 05 The Group continues to use its extensive resource and capacity to service key projects, fulfilling the delivery of largescale and often complex steelwork, for major clients.
INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE & HOSPITALS & PROCESS DISTRIBUTION CAR PARKS POWER STATIONS EDUCATION Hospitals are increasingly SeverfieldRowen has This is one of the Car parks are now a Power Stations in the UK, Group companies have being specified with the capability to deal Groups key sectors, major area of business Ireland and overseas extensive experience in structural steel frames.
with any special providing a constant and for the structural steel have always been an the provision of Span length, enhanced construction and significant proportion of structural steelwork in industry, and the important element of the flexibility, adaptability engineering requirement.
Its position is education facilities.
An SeverfieldRowen Group Groups demand.
and speed of It is one of the UKs most sustained by competitive has developed expertise important sector, which Our experience and construction are skilled and versatile strengths including and a proven track continues to grow professionalism in significant advantages for groups of companies design capability, supply record in their design throughout the UK.
delivering such projects the Group in this with specialist experience chain co-ordination and and construction.
enables it to continue in growing sector.
in the design and fabrication erection its pivotal role in supply fabrication of platework, speeds.
tubular framed structures and specialist pipework.
Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts
