SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 34 Directors Report The directors present their annual report and the audited financial Fixed Assets statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Details of changes in the Groups fixed assets are given in notes 10, 11, 12 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal Activity and Business Review The principal activity of the Group continues to be the design, Directors fabrication and erection of structural steelwork, specialist claddings The present membership of the Board is stated on pages 32 and and ancillary products.
John Severs resigned as a director on 30 June 2007.
Ian Cochrane was appointed a director on 9 October 2007.
All of the The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the other directors served throughout the year.
profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 13 and 15 to the financial statements.
The directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out on page 47 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
A review of the Groups progress during the year and of its future prospects is contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 to J K Elliott will retire at the Annual General Meeting in accordance 10, the Operational Review on pages 12 to 18, and the Financial with the Articles of Association and will offer himself for re-election.
P M Levine Chairman believes that J K Elliott continues to be The key financial performance indicators of the Group are committed to the role of non-executive director and to show presented on page 1 and are discussed further within the Financial effective performance and consequently supports his nomination.
In accordance with the Combined Code issued by the London Explanation of the Groups approach to financial risk management Stock Exchange T G Haughey and P J Davison will also retire at the is given in the treasury section on page 28.
Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
The Group is also subject to competitor risk, operating in a Plans for the structure of the Board are described in the Chairmans competitive market with a focus on ongoing innovation and price Statement on page 10. pressure.
To reduce this risk we focus resources on ensuring we lead the sector in innovation, and continue to invest in appropriate Executive Directors developments in technology and other areas.
We also actively Tom Haughey, 52, was appointed Group Commercial Director in challenge margins when reviewing potential orders, and work hard February 2002.
He graduated from Strathclyde University in 1978. to ensure the sourcing of quality labour and materials at the best His career until joining the Group was within Corus formerly price available the ongoing Steel UK Limited partnership with British Steel where his last position was Commercial Director of Murray Metals Group being an excellent example of this in 2006.
In November 2005 he was The Group benefits from close commercial relationships with a appointed Joint Group Managing Director and Chief Executive number of key customers and suppliers.
Damage to or loss of any Officer in July 2007. of these relationships could have a direct and detrimental effect on Peter Emerson, 54, has worked for the past 34 years in the the Groups results.
To manage this risk Group management Specialist Contracting Industry, initially in the concrete continues to invest significant time and effort working with these contracting sector.
He joined Rowen in 1984 as a quantity customers and suppliers to ensure the Group meets their surveyor, rising to Deputy Managing Director in 1996.
He was respective needs, and continues to develop strong working appointed Group Commercial Director in 1998 and in December relationships.
2001 to the key role of Managing Director of Watson Steel A review of the Groups performance in the area of health and Structures Ltd.
In July 2007 he was also appointed Chief safety, and its consideration of environmental and employment Operations Officer for the Group.
policies, is given in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on Peter Davison, 52, graduated from Lancaster University in 1977 and page 39. qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1980 with KPMG.
He joined the Group in 1988 as financial controller and company Results and Dividends secretary, immediately taking on the financial responsibility of the The profit of the Group for the year after taxation amounted to Companys flotation on the London Stock Exchange.
He was 26,434,000 2006: 20,921,000, details of which are set out in appointed Group Finance Director in 1990 and has established the financial statements on page 53. and maintained efficient up-to-date systems of control to ensure the smooth running of all financial aspects of the Group.
An interim dividend of 6.75p net per share 2006: 5.00p was paid on 26 October 2007.
The directors recommend a final Peter Ellison, 54, joined the Group in 1993 as Managing Director dividend for the year of 13.25p net per share 2006: 9.25p, of the Groups in-house erection company, Steelcraft Erection payable on 16 June 2008 to shareholders on the register on Services Ltd.
He has spent his working life in the steel erection 16 May 2008. business and prior to joining the Group he ran his own erection company based in the Midlands.
Since joining Steelcraft he has Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 35 built up a company which is very important for the success of the companies.
He has a wealth of experience and contacts within a Group with an unrivalled reputation for the efficient and safe number of strategic sectors for the Group, including infrastructure erection of structural steelwork.
Brian Hick, 49, joined the Group in 1989 and has had 32 years Geoff Wright, 65, was appointed in September 2006 as a nonexperience in the structural steel industry including 8 years executive director of the Company.
He retired in 2006 from working in the Middle East and Africa.
He was appointed Group Hammerson PLC, the FT100 Property Developer, where he was Director responsible for international operations in 2000 and under Director of Project Management and Construction, having worked his guidance the Group has been able to break into two significant there for 37 years.
He is well known in the property and market areas, both in the UK and overseas, being Power construction industries and was previously President of the Generation and Petrochemical work.
He was also appointed Chartered Institute of Building.
He is a non-executive director of Managing Director of SeverfieldReeve Structure Ltd in July 2007, English Partnerships and BRE Trust.
Nigel Pickard, 43, joined the Group in 2005 following the Directors and Officers Liability acquisition of Atlas Ward.
He has 27 years experience in the Directors and Officers liability insurance has been purchased structural steel industry working both in the UK and overseas during the year.
In 2000, he was appointed Operations Director of Atlas Ward where he took full responsibility for production.
Appointed as Agreements with Employees and Significant Agreements Managing Director in 2002 he transformed Atlas Wards business turning its substantial losses to profit and laid the foundations for There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or further development in the future.
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Ian Cochrane, 38, joined the Group in 2007 following the acquisition of Fisher Engineering.
He has worked at Fisher The Groups banking arrangements can be terminated upon a Engineering for 20 years starting in the drawing office and change of control of the Group.
He was appointed Project There are no other significant agreements to which the Group is a Director in January 2004 and Managing Director in October 2007. party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of He has gained a comprehensive understanding of all aspects of the the Group following a takeover bid providing that the Groups business and has been involved in many major projects in Ireland credit rating is maintained.
representing a range of market sectors.
Significant Shareholdings Non-Executive Directors As at 25 April 2008, the Company had been notified of the Peter Levine, 52, graduated in jurisprudence from Trinity College, following voting rights to the Companys shares in accordance with Oxford in 1977 and qualified as a solicitor in 1980 since when he the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing has specialised in international corporate law.
He was appointed a Authority: non-executive director and Deputy Chairman of the Company in 1993 becoming Chairman in 1998.
He is the Chairman of 2.5p Ordinary shares % Imperial Energy Corporation PLC, the oil exploration and M & G Investment Management 7,920,569 8.94 production company.
Rathbone Investment Management 4,678,329 5.28 JP Morgan Asset Management 4,277,673 4.83 Keith Elliott, 65, was appointed a non-executive director of the Credit Suisse Asset Management 3,848,860 4.34 Company in October 1998, and was appointed to the role of Jupiter Asset Management 3,840,047 4.33 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in 2003.
He retired in Legal & General Investment Management 3,801,579 4.29 July 1998 from Bechtel, the international contracting organisation, Barclays Global Investors 3,006,595 3.39 where he was a partner in Bechtel Corporation and Senior VicePresident in charge of petroleum and chemical business, having Share Split worked there for 32 years.
On 8 October 2007 the Companys authorised and issued share John Featherstone, 75, has been a non-executive director of the capital was sub-divided on the basis of 4 new ordinary shares of Company since 1988.
He is a Chartered Accountant with a 2.5p each for each existing ordinary share of 10p each.
distinguished career in the financial management of both private and quoted companies.
He now serves as chairman and director of several private companies.
David Ridley, 65, was appointed in June 2002 as a non-executive director of the Company.
He previously held the Chairmanship of Faithful and Gould, the quantity surveyor and cost management consultants, which forms part of the W S Atkins Group of Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 36 Directors Report continued Share Capital intention of exercising this authority and will only do so at price levels which they consider to be in the interests of shareholders The Company has a single class of share capital which following after taking account of the Groups overall financial position, the share split is now divided into ordinary shares of 2.5p each.
and which would lead to a beneficial impact on the earnings Three resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual per share of the Company.
General Meeting relating to or concerning Share Capital.
Rights Attaching to Shares i The directors are requesting that their authority to allot shares be renewed.
The maximum amount of relevant securities that The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the may be allotted pursuant to the authority is 731,015 in Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association may nominal value 29,240,599 shares representing approximately be changed with the agreement of shareholders.
A shareholder 33% of the Companys total share capital in issue as at 25 April whose name appears on the Companys Register of members can 2008, being the latest practical date prior to the date of the choose whether his shares are evidenced by share certificates i. e. Notice of Meeting.
The Board has no present intention of in certificated form or held in electronic i. e. uncertificated form in exercising this authority, which will expire at the end of the CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
2009 Annual General Meeting, or on 29 August 2009, Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may attend any whichever is the earlier.
general meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, every ii The directors power to allot equity securities conferred by the shareholder or his representative who is present at a general Special Resolution of the Company passed on 17 June 2007 meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to shareholder or his representative who is present has one vote on be held on 30 May 2008, unless otherwise varied, revoked or each resolution for every ordinary share of which they are the renewed.
Your directors consider it desirable that this power, registered shareholder.
A resolution put to the vote of a general being a limited disapplication of pre-emption rights, should be meeting is decided on a show of hands unless before, or on the renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, declaration of the result of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is such authority to expire at the end of the 2009 Annual demanded by the chairman of the meeting, or by at least two General Meeting, or on 29 August 2009, whichever is the shareholders or their representatives present in person and earlier.
Apart from rights issues, open offers and other prehaving the right to vote, or by any shareholders or their emptive issues, the aggregate nominal value of new shares for representatives present in person having at least 10% of the total which power is being sought is not to exceed 110,760 voting rights of all shareholders, or by any shareholders or their 4,430,394 shares representing 5% of the Companys issued representatives present in person holding ordinary shares in which share capital.
The directors have no present intention of an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least one-tenth of the exercising this power but should any exercise be contemplated total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
in the future they will have regard to the Investor Protection Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary Committee guidelines.
resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the iii The directors are requesting that at the forthcoming Annual amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim General Meeting they are given the authority to buy, by way dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates of market purchases, up to 10% of the issued share capital of and for the periods they decide the distributable profits of the the Company representing a maximum of 8,860,788 shares.
The price to be paid will be no lower than 2.5p per share and Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it no more than 5% above the average of the middle market became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily the Company, unless the directors decide otherwise.
Official List for the five business days preceding the day on which the shares are purchased.
Purchases would not be made If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction in the close period preceding the announcement of the of an extraordinary resolution passed by the shareholders, divide Companys interim or final results.
This proposal does not among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the indicate that the Company will purchase shares at any Company and he can value any assets and determine how the particular time or price, or imply any opinion on the part of the division shall be carried out as between the members or different directors as to the market or other value of the Companys classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or shares.
This authority will expire at the end of the 2009 Annual any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of General Meeting, or on 29 August 2009, whichever is the the members.
No shareholders can be compelled to accept any earlier.
It is the present intention of the directors to seek a asset which would give them a liability.
The directors have no present Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 37 Voting at General Meetings Variation of Rights Any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less varied or revoked either: than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the nominal value of the issued shares of the class: or appointment proposes to vote.
ii with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or the class.
to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under The Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to them.
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public If there is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing companies the power to require information with respect to interests shares, rights attaching to new shares can take priority over the in their voting shares and he or any interested person failed to rights of existing shares, or the new shares and the existing shares supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days are deemed to be varied unless the rights expressly allow it by a after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no reduction of paid up capital or if another share of that same class is dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend or in respect transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
of capital or more favourable voting rights.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of CREST a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
system for stocks and shares.
Transfer of Shares Creditor Payment Policy The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share The Groups current policy concerning the payment of its trade which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent creditors is to agree terms and conditions for its transactions with dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open suppliers and to abide by those terms, subject to those terms and and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of conditions being met by the supplier.
At 31 December 2007 trade a certificated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is lodged, creditors of the Group represented 51 days of purchases 2006: duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the 52 days.
Company or any other place decided by the Board, accompanied by a certificate for the share which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of Charitable and Political Contributions the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class During the year the Group made charitable donations of 106,000 of shares: and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
2006: 90,000, principally to local charities serving the Transfer of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST communities in which the Group operates.
and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated No contributions were made to any political parties during the share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation current or preceding year.
The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, Directors Responsibility Statement for up to 30 days a year, by closing the Register of shareholders.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and The Board cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare uncertificated shares without gaining consent from CREST.
accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial There are no other limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare the the Company.
Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 38 Directors Report continued In the case of UK GAAP accounts for the Company, the directors The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
are required to: Going Concern select suitable accounting policies and then apply them After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement at consistently the time of approving the financial statements that there is a make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to prudent continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this state whether applicable accounting standards have been reason the directors continue to adopt a going concern basis in followed preparing the financial statements.
In the case of IFRS accounts for the Group, International Auditors Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present Each director, at the date of approval of this Annual Report, fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial confirms that: performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by are aware of that information.
compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in Standards.
Directors are also required to: accordance with the provisions of S234ZA of the Companies properly select and apply accounting policies Act 1985. present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be information proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Approved by the Board of directors and signed on behalf of requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to the Board.
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial Peter Davison performance Secretary 2 May 2008 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Dalton Airfield Industrial Estate, records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Dalton, Thirsk, North Yorkshire, YO7 3JN financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a report of the directors and the directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review
