Performance review Performance 2007 2006 m m Turnover 288.9 299.8 Profit 19.7 17.1 Len Graziano President and Before interest, tax and exceptional items see note 5 Chief Executive Officer After adjusting for the disposal of the Water Technologies and Pipeline Services business and the impact Services of exchange rate fluctuations, turnover in Severn Trents Water Technology and Services business is a leading Water Technologies and Services was global supplier of water and waste water treatment solutions.
It comprises 292.6 million in 2006 07, up 2.4% on three main groups: Water Purification, Operating Services and Analytical 2005 06 see below.
Turnover in the US Services.
The first two groups are marketed as Severn Trent Services, businesses was up by 4% above 2005 06, while Analytical Services takes in the UK Laboratories business.
while turnover originating from business units outside the US was essentially even We operate at the forefront of new water technology.
We are leaders in with last year.
our chosen markets of disinfection, filtration, arsenic removal, and in the UK environmental testing services.
We are also a leading provider of Profit before interest, tax and exceptional contract operating services for water and waste water plants.
items was 19.7 million, an increase of Strategy 15.2%.
This was mainly achieved through Our growth strategy is to focus on our core strengths.
Therefore, we greater operating efficiency.
made a number of disposals in the 2006 07 financial year.
We sold our 2007 2006 m m Pipeline Products and Services assets to ADS LLC.
At year end we sold our Aztec instrumentation product line to ABB Limited.
We also sold our Turnover 288.9 299.8 stake in Aquafin NV to the Flemish government for 29.6 million.
Pipeline Services 5.1 14.0 These disposals leave us free to concentrate on our core strengths and 283.8 285.8 on higher margin, higher growth areas.
We have a twofold strategy for Exchange rate impact 8.8 achieving organic growth in these areas.
First, we are expanding our 292.6 285.8 existing technologies into new geographical markets and secondly, we are taking new technologies into our existing markets.
Growth 2.4% In order to achieve the first of these, we are extending our global sales and distribution network outside the US.
This emphasis is reflected in Health and safety RIDDOR incidents our new order volume for Water Purification products increasing slightly above 13% year over year in 2006 07.
As regards new technologies, we 2006 07 13 acquired a proprietary ultraviolet UV technology, Quay Technologies in May 2007.
This will enhance our position in the growing global water and waste water disinfection treatment market.
2005 06 29 The other aspect of our strategy for delivering good returns to shareholders remains unchanged from previous years.
That is, we continue to focus on cost control, operational efficiency and safety improvements.
We believe the connections between these three aspects are extremely strong, health and safety improvements go hand in hand with greater operational efficiency, which itself goes hand in hand with cost control.
We are therefore pleased to report a much improved health and safety performance in 2006 07.
The number of RIDDOR incidents was down by over 55% on 2005 06.
16 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Performance review Water Purification In terms of contract wins, a highlight was the renewal of our US$72 The Water Purification divisions turnover rose by 4.5% to 106 million million contract with the Florida Governmental Utility Authority for five and profit before interest and tax increased by 39% on the previous year.
Under the revised contract, we will operate and maintain four water and wastewater systems for five years, with an additional five year Within this division, Metering Services was a very positive story.
UK, demand for domestic water meters is increasing, leading to good growth in our figures for meter installations and meter supply.
Analytical Services Year over year, Severn Trent Laboratories UKs STL turnover was The Water Purification division is product oriented and new technology 32.5 million, up 1%.
As a result of the organisations continued cost is therefore important.
Metering Services leads the industry in solid efficiency programmes, profit was up 15% on the previous year.
state electronic metering of domestic premises.
We further developed our position in 2006 with the design and launch of a new concentric During the financial year, STL was successfully awarded new contracts SmartMeter, which is suitable for outdoor installation our existing with both Welsh Water and Severn Trent Water for five and three years meters were primarily for indoor use.
The new meter also has the respectively.
In June it won a contract to sample and monitor endocrine capability to help leak detection, clearly an important part of the UK disrupting compounds for the National Environment Agency strategy for water management.
This is being conducted in England and Wales in conjunction with the UK Government and the Water In early 2007 our SM150 and SM250 SmartMeters were the first Industry.
STL also saw continued success in the waste water, waste domestic electronic powered water meters to be approved under the and land markets and growth in our applied research and new European Union Measuring Instruments Directive MID.
open up the whole European Market to our products for the first time.
Outlook The arsenic removal market continues to grow in the US and we have Looking ahead, we believe the market outlook for us is generally positive.
two strong product offerings: Bayoxide E33 is a proprietary granular ferric oxide medium and Bayoxide E33P is a proprietary pelletized There are opportunities in our target Water Purification markets for ferric oxide medium developed by LANXESS for use in Severn Trent electro chlorination, on site sodium hypochlorite generation, arsenic Services SORB 33 and SORB 33 APU arsenic removal systems.
removal, and tertiary treatment services.
In particular there are good Bayoxide has been permitted for use by environmental agencies in opportunities for us to take our existing technology into new 24 states in the US, more than any other arsenic removal technology.
We will continue to focus on selected countries in the Middle East and in 2007 08 we plan to open a direct sales and Outside the US, we continued to win new contracts in the Middle East, service office in the United Arab Emirates.
including supplying on site sodium hypochlorite generation systems to the Abu Dhabi Water and Electricity Authority ADWEA and a large We will also target growth in Asia and Europe.
Developments like the electrochlorination contract in Qatar.
We also won a deep bed filtration EU MID approval for our SmartMeter products will create growth contract with a municipality in China and a contract in the UK to supply opportunities in 2007 08 and beyond.
Southern Water with filtration equipment for four new waste water There are good commercial opportunities ahead in ballast water treatment facilities.
treatment, driven by new International Maritime Organisation Operating Services regulations.
Severn Trent fide Noras Balpure system for treating ballast This division comprises our Contract Operations business, which water has a patent pending in the US and was the first commercial carries out operating and maintenance contracts in the US, and our system to be selected for testing by the US Coast Guard and the US International group, which provides operating management and Environmental Protection Agency.
consultancy services in Europe and the developing world.
These In the Operating Services business, we plan to achieve growth through services include the Coast to Coast Water C2C joint venture.
This 25 geographical expansion, both in the US and internationally, especially year, 1 billion Private Finance Initiative contract with the UK Ministry of in Europe and particularly in the UK non regulated water sector and Defence started in March 2005 and serves some 1,500 sites throughout in Italy.
In Analytical Services, our twin focus will be on utilities and on the At the start of the year, the Contract Operations market in the US was commercial sector.
The utilities sector remains important to us, but we relatively soft.
However, demand picked up, driven by municipalities believe there are higher growth opportunities in the commercial sector.
and governments need to comply with regulation and to improve the Our existing analytical expertise and reputation in the utilities sector are performance of water and waste water plants.
directly relevant to those commercial opportunities.
So we are well Turnover in Operating Services for the year was up 1% to 146 million equipped to grow that side of the business.
and profit before interest and tax improved 4%.
In all three areas, we will maintain our cost control and efficiency programmes.
