What we do Severn Trent Plc is a FTSE 100 group focused on water.
It serves over 3.7 million household and business customers in England and Group turnover Wales and provides water 1,480.2m and waste water solutions 8,372 employees in the UK and overseas.
The water industry in England and Wales invests more than 3 billion a year and employs over 27,000 people.
There are ten water and sewerage companies in England and Wales and sixteen water supply companies.
Severn Trent Plc is the second largest water company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Coverage Severn Trent Waters region stretches from mid Wales to Rutland and from the Bristol Channel to the Humber.
We deliver nearly 2 billion litres of water a day to homes and businesses through 46,000 km of pipes.
A further 54,000 km of sewers take waste water away to over 1,000 sewage works.
The regulatory framework Ofwat sets annual price limits for each water company.
The current price limits were set in 2004 for the period 2005-10 the AMP4 period.
Each water company has to submit an annual return the June Return to Ofwat covering its activities.
This is the primary source of regulatory information and enables Ofwat to monitor and compare the performance of the companies.
Water quality in England and Wales is regulated by the Drinking Water Inspectorate: river pollution and flooding is regulated by the Environment Agency.
2 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Quick Read Turnover 1218.1m 80.3% of group turnover 5,289 employees Severn Trent Water provides high quality water and sewerage services to over 3.7 million household and business customers, in England and mid Wales.
Key strengths lower tariff levels compared to other water companies drinking water and waste water quality significantly above average strong management team with clear and focused strategy sustained commitment to corporate responsibility For further information visit www.
co. uk Turnover 288.9m 19.0% of group turnover 2,984 employees Water Technologies and Services is one of the worlds leading suppliers of water and waste water treatment solutions.
Headquartered in the US, it has a growing presence in the Middle East, Europe and Asia.
It has three main businesses: Water Purification, Operating Services and Analytical Services.
Key strengths strong brand recognition market leadership in disinfection, filtration and arsenic removal all growing markets continually expanding product and technology base good track record of organic growth and cost control For further information visit www.
