Performance review Performance 2007 2006 m m Turnover 1,218.1 1,150.9 Profit 413.0 400.4 Before interest, tax and exceptional items see note 5 Tony Wray Managing Director Turnover in Water and Sewerage Severn Trent Water increased by 5.8% in 2006 07, to 1,218.1 million.
Sales prices increased Financial performance by 6.58% including inflation from Turnover in Water and Sewerage increased by 5.8% in 2006 07, to 1 April 2006.
The price rise represented 1,218.1 million.
Sales prices increased by 6.58% including inflation the 7.23% increase allowed by Ofwat, from 1 April 2006.
The price rise represented the 7.23% increase less a 0.65% voluntary abatement of K, allowed by Ofwat, less a 0.65% voluntary abatement of K, previously previously announced in 2005 06. announced in 2005 06.
Profit before interest, tax and exceptional items PBIT was up by 3.1% Profit before interest, tax and exceptional on the previous year, to 413.0 million.
A number of factors impacted items PBIT was up by 3.1% on the PBIT.
They included increased energy costs of 23.5 million caused by previous year, to 413.0 million as the rising prices: other increases net of efficiencies in our cost base of higher turnover was partially offset by 17.4 million: increase in infrastructure renewals expenditure of 3.6 cost increases described opposite.
million and an increase in depreciation charges of 10.1 million Health and safety RIDDORS reflecting the growing asset base.
per 1,000 employees The KPIs covered in the Group Chief Executives review are referred to here to provide further detail on their use in driving our performance improvements.
2007 7.1 Our asset base During the financial year, we invested 103 million 98m net of grants 2006 9.3 received in maintaining our infrastructure network.
Capital expenditure, excluding spending on infrastructure maintenance, was 399 million.
Gross capital expenditure including infrastructure maintenance Water quality % expenditure was 502 million.
One KPI, capex gross vs final determination, measures our 2006 99.98 performance on managing the financial aspects of the delivery of our investment programme.
This measures the percentage variance between our capital expenditure and Ofwats final determination for 2005 99.95 AMP4.
This assesses one aspect of performance against our objective of delivering services to our customers at the lowest costs.
Other KPIs 2004 99.96 most notably the capital process quality measure will assess our delivery of high quality services.
Adjusting for minor timing differences and modifications to the AMP4 capital programme notified to Ofwat through the change control process we are on track to deliver this programme over the AMP4 period.
We continue to be in line to achieve around 6% efficiencies compared to Ofwats Final Determination for AMP4.
Our cost base We recognise that managing our operating costs is a key component in our success.
We continued the work started in 2005 06, including process improvement leading to reducing employee numbers and removing management layers.
Two KPIs measure our performance on managing costs.
The first measures the variance between our latest formal forecast of operating costs and Ofwats Final Determination for AMP4.
10 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Performance review The second indicator is the total cost including operating costs, The flooding of a home or property with raw sewage, is viewed by most depreciation, infrastructure renewals and third party costs associated people as one of the most unpleasant problems our customers may with serving each customer property.
Overall, for the first two years of the AMP4 programme, we have been ahead of our Ofwat target in this area.
We will continue working to Meeting our customers expectations achieve a net reduction year on year in the number of properties at risk Our customers top priority is the safety and reliability of their drinking of flooding from sewers.
Our programme of works to reduce water supply and we have a strong track record.
We have consistently permanently the risk of internal and external flooding will benefit an achieved 99.9% compliance with water quality standards set by the estimated 1,600 properties, dependent upon the rate of discoveries of Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI since 1997, which represents one of new properties experiencing flooding and being added to our registers.
the best compliance records in our industry.
In terms of the number of actual sewer flooding incidents, our 2006 07 Water companies and regulators measure water quality in a number of figures are slightly up on those for 2005 06.
Our water quality KPI is based on mean zonal compliance.
This patterns, with increased numbers of storms have been one of the is an overall measure used by the DWI which measures the extent to contributing factors to increases in flooding.
which samples taken at customers taps comply with all the requirements of the Water Supply Water Quality Regulations 2000.
Our sewer flooding KPI aims to reduce the number of incidents from blockages, sewer collapses etc over the next five years.
There are two The DWIs performance tables for the 2006 calendar year, which are main routes for achieving this reduction.
One will be the completion of based on more than 500,000 tests from samples of Severn Trent Water, schemes already underway, such as the 14 million scheme to alleviate showed that we achieved 99.98% mean zonal compliance.
This is an flooding in Kenilworth.
The second is solutions such as routine sewer improvement on our previous years performance.
cleansing programmes to prevent sewers from blocking.
During 2006 07 we delivered a number of programmes designed to Interacting with customers maintain and improve water quality.
They included schemes to secure In addition to receiving excellent operational services from us, our compliance with mandatory standards for cryptosporidium and nitrate customers expect to interact with us in a satisfactory way.
In addition we carried out an extensive and targeted mains query about billing, they expect it to be resolved on their first call.
If cleaning programme to improve the aesthetic quality of the water they write to us, they expect a quick response to their letter.
well documented that we have not reached high enough customer We are continuing to develop drinking water safety plans for our service standards in recent years.
treatment works and our investment programme for water quality In June 2006, Ofwat issued a notice under S22A 4 of the Water in 2007 08 includes further mains cleaning, more nitrate reduction Industry Act, stating its intention to fine Severn Trent Water for failure schemes and lead removal schemes.
This will ensure we maintain to meet customer service standards under the Guaranteed Standards our high levels of water quality throughout our distribution system.
Scheme GSS for water companies.
The notice covered performance For water supply to our customers, our KPIs are Ofwats DG2 risk of low since June 2005.
In addition, we are still working and fully co-operating pressure and DG3 unplanned interruptions to supply.
with Ofwat and Ernst & Young LLP on their independent investigations into customer service performance and misreporting which includes On unplanned interruptions to supply, Ofwat deemed our performance performance prior to June 2005.
We await the conclusions of those good in 2005 06.
However, our figures deteriorated in 2006 07, investigations and details of the financial penalties that will be imposed primarily because of five operational events in the summer of 2006. on us.
This year, using the DG3 definition, around 36,100 properties experienced unplanned interruptions to supply, compared to around In June 2006 Ofwat also issued a notice under section 203 of the Water 15,200 in 2005 06.
This represents 1.07% of the properties connected Industry Act requiring further information to be provided about the to our network, compared to 0.45% in 2005 06.
We have put in place misreporting of data and our performance against DG standards and an action plan to improve performance, focusing on our network assets, the GSS scheme.
Data for these areas has been provided to Ofwat going our processes for responding to problems with water supply and our back as far as 1995 and we have answered their detailed questions.
contingency planning for events such as power outages.
Our final response was submitted on 31 January 2007.
We anticipate that Ofwat will respond with a further S22A notice of intention to We continued our performance on low pressure in 2006 07, with 314 impose a penalty for misreporting of data since June 2005. properties across our entire region at risk of experiencing poor pressure at year end, compared to 313 properties in 2005 06.
This represents In the meantime, we have done much to improve current customer less than 0.01% of the properties we serve.
Many of the customer service failures of 2005 06 were due to the introduction of a major new IT system TARGET for During 2007 08 we will install several thousand fixed pressure loggers billing customers.
We acknowledge that, when introducing that system, which will provide much better data on our network enabling us to we underestimated the amount of training required to transfer our improve our performance further.
contact centre operators to the new system.
We also underestimated the extent to which any major new IT system is prone to problems.
Severn Trent 11 Performance review Water and Sewerage continued During the second half of 2005 06 and the start of 2006 07, these The other main area of customer interaction relates to our operational problems were increasingly apparent to us, our customers and to Ofwat.
water and waste water services.
We completed a reorganisation of this In July 2006, the Consumer Council for Water CCW issued a report process in 2006 07 with the closure of our two 24 7 regional showing that complaints about Severn Trent Water increased by 54% operational management centres.
We have established a new 24 7 during the six months from October 2005 to March 2006.
Their report customer operations service centre at Coventry in the heart of our for the period April 2006 to March 2007 showed a further rise in operational area.
All customer contacts related to water and waste complaints of 36%.
In 2006 07 we began work on an action plan to fix water matters are handled alongside and as part of, our operational IT problems, to recruit 70 additional staff in our billing division and to management capability.
This enables us to diagnose operational failures extend the training given to contact centre operators.
more effectively and promptly and also allows us to use our remote monitoring systems to keep our customer contact teams better The results of that work now show steady improvements.
Customer informed thus providing a higher standard of service on operational service performance in the first eight months of 2006 07 remained matters.
We are working on improving process efficiency to increase unsatisfactory while figures for the final four months, as a result of customer satisfaction in order to deliver first time job resolution for the action plan, were starting to show improvement.
For customer service performance the first KPI is written customer We are encouraged that in the first six month period since establishing complaints per 1,000 properties.
This is a new measure for 2006 07. the new centre October 2006 to March 2007 we have improved by In previous years we have tracked DG7, a measure of the response to 13% to 72% the number of customers who, through our service written complaints.
DG7 performance in 2006 07 was 99.76% delivery survey, have told us we have met or exceeded their compared with 88.7% in 2005 06.
Against the new measure, our expectations.
We are confident that these results demonstrate we can quarter three performance was 25.9 complaints per 1,000 properties, make further sustainable improvements to operational customer service recovering to 17.5 in the last quarter, giving performance in the year of in 2007 08 and beyond.
Whilst both the quality and timeliness of responses have improved in the year, continuing issues on answering phone calls Our New Connections department manages, from application to caused customers to write in and complain.
delivery, the connection of customers to water and waste water services.
In 2006 07 we have worked closely with developers and customers to Our second KPI on customer service is first time call resolution for understand how we can improve our service to them and make billing contact, which shows the proportion of calls resolved at that interaction with us easier.
Consequently, we have changed our point.
As well as giving the best standard of service to customers, first organisation design, introduced new web based applications and time call resolution is also the most cost effective for us.
This is again a improved our performance on water service connections completed new measure and whilst we have calculated performance for 2006 07 within 21 working days from 45% to 81%.
We are aiming to build on at 80%, this measure was not tracked in management reports in the these improvements through 2007 08. course of the year.
During 2006 07 the focus has been on ensuring compliance with Ofwats DG6 the number of billing contacts received We also have customers who, on receipt of a bill, either cannot or will during the report year and the time taken to respond to them not pay.
This directly impacts our trade debtors and our financial standards and improving the quality of call response.
We have therefore introduced the debtor days KPI as the measure by which our performance will be tracked and benchmarked.
The training and competency programme for billing staff will continue in 2007 08 and beyond.
Our goal in 2007 08 is to sustain the Assuming that our year on year billing and collection performance for improvements we are now seeing, so we once again meet industry each of our various income streams remains constant, we would expect standards in this area.
Beyond that, we will set ourselves higher our debtor days to increase on an annual basis by approximately two aspirations of being an industry leader in customer service.
This is due to the continued impact of customers switching from the unmeasured to measured basis of charge.
As measured bills are Interaction with customers is not just about how we perform in terms sent to customers throughout the year, there will inevitably be a number of specific figures and measures.
It is also about fitting in with different of recently issued bills that remain unpaid at year end.
The number of customers ways of life and giving them flexibility in how they contact water meters we installed increased by over 65,500 in 2006 07. us.
So, in 2006 07 we redeveloped our website www.
co. uk in order to give customers self service options for dealing with us.
Our debtor days performance has deteriorated from 31 days in Transactions such as requesting a meter or telling us about a change 2005 06 to 37 days in 2006 07.
This deterioration is above the two day of address can now be done online 24 hours a day, seven days a expected increase described above and has been driven by operational week 24 7, whereas previously customers had to telephone our performance issues within our billing and collection processes.
We intend to position ourselves within the upper quartile of industry performance by 2011 12.
This is to be delivered through a stepped performance improvement in our billing and collection activities.
In particular, we will improve the performance of our billing contact centre, reduce our current work in progress backlogs and introduce further billing system improvements.
12 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Performance review Developing a sustainable service for customers Minimising our environmental impact Serving customers also means looking after their long term interests as One of our KPIs in this area measures our compliance with the well as their immediate concerns.
Our main aim is to ensure that we are discharge consents for our sewage treatment works.
We have a good maintaining the serviceability of our assets.
This means carrying out the history of performance in this area, although a poorly performing work necessary to make sure their water and sewerage systems deliver sewage works at Stratford-upon-Avon reduced our overall performance reliable service in the future for customers and the environment.
It takes figures for 2005 based on calendar year.
In 2006 with that specific into consideration aspects like the condition and deterioration of a problem remedied, our compliance levels were excellent and we companys above ground and below ground water and sewerage assets.
achieved a compliance rate of over 99.99%.
This level of compliance The most recent Ofwat assessment shows that we have a stable is amongst the best to be found in the industry.
serviceability across our asset base.
Another KPI which relates to our environmental impact is the number Improving the delivery of our capital programme of pollution incidents: more specifically the number of Environment We will aim continuously to improve the delivery of our capital Agency reported category 1, 2 and 3 pollution incidents.
We are in the process of developing a KPI that will number of such pollution incidents was 530 in 2006 calendar year, measure the quality of our Capex delivery.
which was lower than 2005 but still too high.
Of the total recorded, two were of the most severe in category 1, and eight were category 2.
This The AMP4 contract for 2005-10 includes a capital investment performance is comparable with the industry averages using the programme of approximately 2.7 billion.
more than 400 million on maintaining water supplies Within the total number of pollution incidents, 98% 520 were category 150 million on improving drinking water quality 3 incidents which are classified as having a very limited and localised around 850 million on maintaining and improving river quality environmental impact.
This particular aspect of performance was more than 350 million improving sewers and dealing with sewer similar to our 2005 performance 519, placing us in the lower quartile flooding, and for the industry.
We have taken positive steps to make significant more than 260 million to reduce leakage improvements in developing an action plan to deliver pollution In the two years to date we have mobilised 2,852 projects of which reductions during the current year and through to the end of the 1,616 have been completed.
We have invested just short of 200 current AMP period.
The plan is linked to our proactive and reactive million on our water production and distribution service with the focus work on the sewerage network.
Whilst we only have the first quarter on improving levels of service to customers, upgrading our treatment performance for 2007 the results are encouraging, showing a decrease works and distribution network.
We have invested over 250 million on of almost 35% for category 3 incidents compared to the first quarter sewerage services, with a focus on repairing our aging sewers, of March 2006. maintaining and upgrading our sewage treatment works to meet tighter We have also instigated a number of projects which include initiatives to quality standard and we are exploring ways of exploiting our by raise customer awareness around the impact of depositing fats, oils and products to generate electricity.
In addition we have invested 50 greases into the sewerage system.
Significant numbers of our sewer million on our support services to improve customer service and blockages are caused by fat build up which in turn contribute to the business services.
number of pollution incidents and floodings.
We have a plan to educate This year capital expenditure, net of grants and contributions, excluding customers about the potential problems of pouring fat down sinks and spending on infrastructure maintenance of 98 million, was 365 drains, part of which is the offer of the provision and distribution of free million for the year.
Adjusting for the changes to the programme, to be fat traps.
These are small containers to hold cooled fat for easy agreed with Ofwat through the change control process and for timing, disposal with household waste.
We raised awareness of this initiative differences, we are on track to deliver approximately 6% efficiencies through our Source magazine which accompanied all of our annual bills over and above the final determination.
This has been largely driven by distributed in February and March 2007. the use of better technologies, better designs and greater delivery Across the region we have a number of large scale construction and efficiency.
It is still early days in AMP4, but we aim to maintain similar upgrade projects at a number of sewage treatment works.
These outperformance over the rest of AMP4.
upgrades are already underway, as part of our AMP4 capital programme Protecting the environment and when completed will result in environmental improvements.
We are The local environment is especially important for a water company.
pleased to report that work is currently on schedule.
How we abstract water, how we manage waste water discharges, how we operate over 1,000 sewage treatment sites, how we operate our 54,000km of sewerage network and how we manage resources all have a huge potential impact on the local environment.
We have a responsibility to minimise that environmental impact and to optimise our use of resources.
The seriousness with which we take that responsibility is reflected in our KPIs.
Five separate indicators are linked to environmental performance.
They are: breach of consents at sewage treatment works: pollution incidents: raw water storage: net energy use and leakage.
In addition to measuring our environmental impact, all five indicators provide a sharp insight into our operational performance.
Severn Trent 13 Performance review Water and Sewerage continued Optimising our use of resources The largest single element of our investment in leakage management is Our water supplies are fundamental to our business.
Our KPI incurred in our mains renewal programme.
The Ofwat Determination for on raw water storage compares the percentage of raw water available AMP4 assumed around 184 million of expenditure over 5 years in at our reservoirs against our three year rolling average.
We have already invested around 85 million in the first two years and we expect to invest a total of around 231 million, In 2006 07 our raw water storage levels were good despite a dry some 26% more than assumed in the Determination, over the whole summer.
We did not impose a hosepipe ban during the year, and AMP4 period on mains renewals alone.
storage levels at year end were normal for the time of year.
Reducing leakage will remain a priority in 2007 08 and we are Net energy use determined to maintain the good progress we have made in the second Our KPI on net energy use measures how much energy net of half of 2006 07.
We are in a good position going into this new year.
renewable energy generated by us we consume per megalitre of water or waste water treated.
Since energy costs are a major element of our Promoting the efficient use of water is important to us.
During 2006 07 cost base and were especially so in 2006 07 following price rises, we continued to adopt a twin track approach for promoting the efficient managing energy usage also enables us to manage costs.
In addition, use of water with our customers.
This included the promotion and managing energy consumption is an essential element in mitigating distribution of water saving devices, together with education and the our environmental impact.
provision of advice to raise awareness of the need to use water wisely.
In 2006 07 we continued to manage our net energy consumption In the report year we have recorded increases in the distribution and in two principal ways.
First, we maintained our renewable energy installation of cistern displacement devices, our self audit guides and production at around 155,000 MWh, this represents 16% of total water butts.
We increased distribution of cistern displacement devices electricity used.
Self audit guide distribution increased by 15,278 21% and water butt distribution by Secondly, we manage net energy consumption through energy 123 2%.
In addition, the number of pupils attending our education efficiency programmes.
In 2006 07 we completed on schedule site centres in 2006 07 increased by 3,332 15%.
We have enhanced our energy reviews of our top 407 sites that account for 85% of Severn education programme, and commenced three trial projects including Trent Waters electricity use.
The review has resulted in individual Site a household water efficiency trial, school water efficiency trial and a Energy Management Plans for 330 sites that include local actions to local government partnership investigating opportunities to promote improve plant process optimisation and identify potential spend to water efficiency.
The review has identified generic approaches required to manage energy on the remaining sites: we believe these CCW research shows that there is still much work to be done to ensure plans will enable us to save approximately 10,000 MWh of electricity our customers are sufficiently engaged with the issue and can make use during 2007 08. of the tools and technology that we make available.
Throughout 2007 08 we will continue our efforts to influence the attitudes of our In forthcoming years, implementation of regulations such as the Urban customers through focused education and awareness activities.
In Wastewater Directive and the Water Framework Directive will increase addition we will continue to build our knowledge of the savings our energy requirements.
In order to offset that, we plan to expand our associated with water efficiency activities to ensure that future plans renewable energy production even further.
We are planning a number provide us with cost effective savings.
of new opportunities and will continue to work on this in 2007 08 and beyond.
In addition to extending our current CHP biogas production, Creating a great place to work the opportunities we are planning include: biomass energy crops, micro We have stressed repeatedly that health and safety is a key priority generation, wind turbines and extending hydro power.
At the business level, it is also an important indicator of quality at the workplace level, the physical well being of our employees Leakage is paramount.
This has been a priority for us in 2006 07.
We returned disappointing results in 2005 06 and consequently increased our focus on and In line with our KPI on health and safety, we reported a 20% reduction investment in, leakage control.
We employed more people in this area, in the RIDDOR accident rate per 1,000 employees in 2006 07.
This invested in new technology and in 2006 07 found and fixed 37,000 was an improvement on our performance from the previous year.
In leaks, 8,000 more than the previous year.
2007 08 and beyond, we will aim to improve further on our safety performance and have therefore moved our performance measure from This effort has reduced our leakage this year but it was not until the RIDDORs to the more demanding measure of lost time incidents LTIs.
month of March 2007 that we attained a monthly level of leakage commensurate with our Ofwat annual target.
Therefore, notwithstanding For the current year we are targeting a 15% reduction in LTIs.
This is this reduction, we believe that we will not attain the annual average a broader measure than the measure we used previously as it includes target level of leakage.
We have kept Ofwat fully informed of our all injuries that result in time off work, not just the serious longer progress and we are in the process of finalising and verifying our term injuries.
leakage data for submission in our annual June Return, which will be submitted in a few weeks.
14 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Performance review Behavioural change and individual engagement are important aspects of improving safety and general business performance.
We encourage our employees to share and debate their ideas about safety, and to put these ideas into practice.
Towards the end of 2005 06 we began to develop a safety management system called SUSA Safe and Unsafe Acts.
This is a one to one work based observation and discussion process in which SUSA trained managers talk regularly with their team members about the way in which they and their team do their job.
By the end of March 2007, over 80% of managers had received SUSA training.
The remaining 20% will receive the training in 2007 08 and there will also be a rolling programme to give SUSA training to new managers.
The target is also for each manager to have at least one SUSA discussion every week.
A second major initiative to improve safety performance is a safety process review of all of our water and waste water sites.
A survey is being carried out at each site, with a target completion date of April 2008.
Each survey generates an action plan, with some improvements being made immediately and larger improvements being incorporated into our capital investment plan.
As well as completing the safety process review, our plans for 2007 08 include setting up a new technical operational function.
This team will independently assess the quality of our operations against technical and safety best practice.
The objective is to bring continuous improvement to our technical and operational activities and reporting.
The engagement and skills of our workforce are vital ingredients in making us a leader in our industry.
We also need to benchmark that engagement rather than simply talking about it in abstract terms.
We have therefore introduced a KPI on employee motivation.
Previously, we used to run an annual employee survey: we have now moved to a quarterly survey of 500 randomly selected employees, as well as the annual survey of all staff.
This gives us an ongoing measure of staff morale and motivation, which we can also benchmark against other organisations.
Outlook In the first two years of the AMP4 contract, we have made good progress on the targets set by Ofwat.
Maintaining this progress will govern our activities for 2007 08 and beyond.
In order to meet our efficiency targets, we will continue to control operating costs, make process improvements, and manage our capital programme.
We will also continue our work to improve leakage and customer service performance.
Our ability to achieve significant operational improvements in 2007 08 and to achieve our AMP4 targets will be boosted by the introduction of our 20 KPIs.
They give us clear year by year targets, as well as establishing robust action and improvement plans for achieving them.
This will assist both internal and external scrutiny of our activities and deliver our strategy of focus on water.
