Our strategy Radical plans for improvement Our strategy takes into account the needs of Over and beyond these basic requirements, management is fully many different stakeholders.
Our plans for engaged in implementing plans for fundamental improvement across higher standards will help us satisfy the all areas of the business.
The successful execution of these improvement activities will radically change our business over a period expectations of all the different groups.
example, greater operational efficiency will help We have already effected organisational improvements.
In addition to us keep charges to customers low, meet our the integration of the head office and Severn Trent Water Executive regulators standards and targets, create a safe teams we have changed the divisional structure in Severn Trent Water.
and motivating environment for our employees, In place of our previous functional structure, which had distinct teams working on planning, engineering and operations, we have created and produce good returns for shareholders.
integrated teams, one focused on clean water, one focused on waste water and one focused on customer relations.
This new structure is Our goal is to have highest standards, lowest designed to raise standards and drive greater efficiency.
It also aligns charges and great people.
Phase one of the organisation with the processes that matter to our customers.
achieving that goal was to restructure the group During 2006 07 we examined every aspect of Severn Trent Waters so we could focus on water.
With that done, current performance.
We benchmarked it against companies in the we have moved into phase two the drive to water and sewerage sector, and also in other sectors.
The benchmarking exercise was detailed and thorough.
We used a range of publicly achieve higher standards and continuous available and internally generated data to identify the population that improvement in all we do.
we should compare ourselves to.
This process involved a number of judgements being exercised to ensure that we used appropriately comparable data points for each measure.
We have identified 20 critical success factors against which we will measure our performance and progress.
We have chosen these indicators with great care, because they represent what we believe are Higher Continuous Greater the key concerns for our customers, regulators, employees and standards improvement efficiency shareholders.
These 20 factors will be represented by 20 KPIs.
In all but two cases, we have defined our actual performance based on our benchmarking exercise and we propose to use these as a basis for assessing our performance going forward.
Two KPIs are new first time job resolution and capital process quality and we need time to assess our current performance and define our objectives.
For all other KPIs, we have shown where our starting point is on a relative scale based on the results of our benchmarking exercise.
For each indicator, we have set ourselves ambitious targets for the coming years, and drawn up action plans for achieving them.
Some improvements will be effected relatively quickly and easily: others are longer term, going beyond the current AMP4 period.
The table on the next page sets out our actual performance for the period under review.
Based on our benchmarking exercise, our performance is shown in one of three categories, of what we consider to be lower quartile performance, upper quartile performance or median representing 2nd and 3rd quartile performance.
8 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Direction Key performance indicators Key area Objective Basis Measure Performance Lower quartile Median Upper quartile 1 Employee Provide a safe working environment MAT Lost time incidents per 100,000 hrs worked 0.50 Annual 2 Develop a confident and productive workforce Employee motivation 76% Survey 3,4 99.98% Customer Provide a high quality product MAA Water quality mean zonal compliance 3 Quality interaction with the customer MAT Customer written complaints per 1,000 properties 19.06 5 MAT First time call resolution for billing % 80% 3 MAT Unplanned interruptions per 1,000 properties 6.95 3,6 Provide a high standard of operational service Properties at risk of low pressure per 1,000 properties 0.09 7 To be determined First time job resolution 5,8 Development of a sustainable service Performance against regulatory obligations 26% 3,9 Financial Asset base enhancement MAT Capex gross vs final determination 2.7% 7 Capital process quality To be determined 6,9 Manage trade debt Debtor days 37.5 9 Management of cost base MAT Opex vs final determination m 479.1 10 MAT Cost to serve per property 226.93 3,4 Environment Minimise environmental impact MAT Pollution incidents per 1,000 properties 0.08 3 MAT Sewer flooding other causes per 1,000 properties 0.16 3 MAT Sewage treatment works breach of consents 0.00% 5,6 Optimise use of resources MAA Raw water storage 90% 5 MAT Net energy use Kwh Ml 618 11 Leakage Ml d current DMA 446 Notes: 5 Actual performance based on internal data.
All measures are for the period to 31 March 2007, except as stated.
MAT Moving Annual total 7 Measure and relative performance to be determined.
MAA Moving Annual Average 8 Measure for quarter ended 31 March 2007.
1 Actual performance across all employees and agency staff.
9 Actual performance based on audited UK GAAP financial statements for the year 2 Performance based on annual all employee survey and quarterly survey of 10% of ended 31 March 2007. permanent employees.
10 Actual performance based on audited UK GAAP financial statements and 3 As reported in June Return to Ofwat.
Performance figures are provisional at this regulatory accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007. stage as the June Return will be submitted to Ofwat on 15 June 2007.
11 DMA leakage performance measured monthly.
Month of March 2007 DMA 4 Measure for calendar year to 31 December 2006. performance disclosed in table above.
Annual measure is MLE leakage the calculation of which has not been completed as at 5 June 2007.
For a number of KPIs, we have only commenced capturing the data It is not statistically realistic to expect any company to be at the top and measuring our performance during the current financial year and of every single league table, but nevertheless, we aim to achieve upper therefore corresponding amounts for the previous financial year are quartile performance over the next 3 to 5 years.
Of course, the goal posts will move, as companies in our sector or For others, the corresponding amounts are available and these are elsewhere redefine what upper quartile means, so we expect our target as follows: to move with it.
Water quality 99.95% We will report on these measures in future results announcements.
Customer written complaints 10.04 Unplanned interruptions 4.5 Properties at risk of low pressure 0.10 Capex vs. final determination 6% Debtor days 31.76 Opex vs. final determination 446.5m Cost to serve per property 219.56 Pollution incidents 0.11 Sewer flooding incidents 0.14 Sewage treatment works breach of consents 0.31% Severn Trent 9
