Directors report The directors present their report, together with the audited financial Directors responsibilities statement statements of the group for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements.
The directors have chosen to prepare the financial statements for the group Principal activity in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The principal activity of the group is the supply of water and the and for the company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally treatment and disposal of sewage.
Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Details of the principal joint venture, associated and subsidiary In the case of IFRS financial statements, International Accounting undertakings of the group at 31 March 2007 appear in notes 18, 19 Standard 1 requires that the financial statements present fairly for each and 41 to the financial statements on pages 67, 68 and 88. financial year the companys financial position, financial performance Business review and cash flows.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply The Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives review and the accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, report and performance reviews for the groups main businesses on in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and pages 4 to 23 provide detailed information relating to the group and its understandable information: provide additional disclosures when strategy, the operation of its businesses, and the results and financial compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to position for the year ended 31 March 2007. enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys performance: and prepare the Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group are set financial statements on a going concern basis unless, having assessed out in the corporate governance report on page 33. the ability of the company to continue as a going concern, management All of the above are incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no to form part of this report.
realistic alternative but to do so.
Research and development In the case of UK GAAP financial statements, the directors are required Expenditure on research and development including amounts to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true capitalised as tangible fixed assets related to research and development, and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or amounted to 4.2 million 2006: 5.4 million.
loss of the company for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting Treasury management policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and The disclosures required under the EU Fair Value Directive in relation to estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable the use of financial instruments by the company are set out in note 20 accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material to the accounts on page 69. departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Post balance sheet events prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is Details of post balance sheet events are set out in note 39 to the group inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the company keeps Dividends proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at An interim dividend of 22.77 pence per ordinary share was paid on 24 any time, the financial position of the company.
The directors are also January 2007.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 38.68 responsible for: safeguarding the assets of the company and the group: pence per ordinary share to be paid on 3 August 2007 to shareholders taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and on the register on 29 June 2007.
This would bring the total dividend for other irregularities: the preparation of the report of the directors and 2006 07, excluding the special dividend paid on 20 October 2006, to the directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements 61.45 pence per ordinary share 2006: 51.13p.
The payment of the of the Companies Act 1985: and ensuring the maintenance and final dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the General Meeting.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Directors and their interests legislation in other jurisdictions.
Details of changes to the board during the year and of the directors offering themselves for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting Directors indemnities are set out on pages 29 and 31 respectively.
The companys Articles of Association provide that directors of the company shall be indemnified by the company against any costs Details of directors service contracts are set out in the directors incurred by them in carrying out their duties including defending any remuneration report on page 40. proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as The interests of the directors in the shares of the company are shown directors in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their on pages 42 and 43. favour or relief from any liability is granted to them by the court.
Biographies of the directors currently serving on the board are set out on pages 24 and 25.
26 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Supplier payment policy Employees Individual operating companies within the group are responsible for The average number of employees within the group is shown in note 9 establishing appropriate policies with regard to the payment of their to the financial statements on page 60. suppliers.
The companies agree terms and conditions under which Severn Trent operates a non discriminatory employment policy and full business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
It is group policy and fair consideration is given to applications for employment by that provided a supplier is complying with the relevant terms and disabled persons where they have the appropriate skills and abilities.
conditions, including the prompt and complete submission of all In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made specified documentation, payment will be made in accordance with to ensure that their employment with the group continues and that agreed terms.
It is also group policy to ensure that suppliers know appropriate training adjustments are made.
It is the policy of the group the terms on which payment will take place when business is agreed.
that the training, career development and promotion opportunities Details of supplier payment policies can be obtained from the of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of individual companies at the addresses shown in note 41 to the other employees.
Trade creditors for the company at the year end are estimated as representing 11 days purchases The group actively encourages employee involvement and consultation 2006: nil days purchases.
and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed of its activity and financial performance by way of briefings and publication to staff Contributions for political and charitable purposes of all relevant information and corporate announcements.
The Severn Donations to charitable organisations during the year amounted to Trent Sharesave Scheme, an all employee SAYE plan, is offered by the 277,476 2006: 487,422.
The company focuses on the development group on an annual basis and helps to develop employees interest in of long term partnerships with charities close to its major sites which the companys performance.
reflect the three core aims of promoting the natural environment, education and building communities.
The company is also committed to Further details of arrangements relating to employee involvement are supporting WaterAid, the UKs only major charity dedicated to providing described in the corporate responsibility report on pages 18 to 19. safe domestic water and sanitation to the worlds poorest people.
Auditors The companys policy is not to make any donations to political parties.
In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the company at However, the Political Parties Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the the date when this report was approved: relevant provisions of which are now contained in Part XA of the so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit Companies Act 1985 requires certain types of expenditure on political information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and events to be preapproved by shareholders.
At the 2006 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the company authorities to cover such each of the directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have expenditure until the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Pursuant to those taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit authorities, during the year ended 31 March 2007 the group incurred information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware costs of nil 2006: 6,000. of that information.
Substantial shareholdings Relevant audit information means information needed by the As at 5 June 2007 the company had been notified under the Disclosure companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
and Transparency Rules of the following major shareholdings: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with Number of ordinary the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
17 shares of 97 19p each % Deloitte & Touche LLP has indicated its willingness to continue as Barclays plc 8,412,304 3.61 auditors, accordingly a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed Legal & General 8,235,812 3.53 at this years Annual General Meeting.
Investment Management Limited The reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP has been approved by the Audit Committee, who will also be responsible for determining Share capital their audit fee on behalf of the directors.
The company was given authority at its Annual General Meeting in 2006 to make market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited of 34,909,675 shares.
Similar authority will again be sought from Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited are prepared and shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting.
No market sent to the Water Services Regulatory Authority.
A copy of these purchases were made by the company during the year ended 31 accounts will be available from the website of Severn Trent Water March 2007.
co. uk or on written request to the Company Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
There is no charge Details of movements in share capital are shown in note 30 to the for this publication.
Severn Trent 27 Directors report continued Going concern The board has a reasonable expectation that the group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the financial statements set out on pages 45 to 88 and 90 to 98 have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the company will be held at the National Motorcycle Museum, Coventry Road, Bickenhill, Solihull, West Midlands B92 0EJ at 11.00am on Tuesday 24 July 2007.
The notice convening the meeting, together with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available on the companys website: www.
com By order of the board Fiona Smith Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 5 June 2007 28 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007
