annual report 2007 report of the directors.
The Directors present their annual report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
1 Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting is set out on pages 77 to 79.
Resolutions 1 to 8 to be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting are concerned with routine ordinary business.
The following special business will also be considered at the meeting.
The Directors consider that the passing of all the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions.
Resolution 9 Authority to purchase own shares The Company currently has the authority to purchase up to 23,400,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The authority remains valid until the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors recommend that shareholders renew the Companys authority to purchase its own ordinary shares as permitted under Article 10 of its Articles of Association.
Accordingly, resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution seeking authority to make such purchases in the market.
The Directors have no immediate intention of using such authority and would do so only when they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any ordinary shares purchased under this authority will be cancelled and the number of ordinary shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
The Company did not purchase any of its ordinary shares during the year.
Resolution 9 specifies the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased representing approximately 10% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital and the minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought, reflecting the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and the UK Listing Rules.
The Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
As at 30 May 2007 there were outstanding options to subscribe for a total of 2,755,842 ordinary shares in the Company, representing approximately 1.2% of the issued share capital of the Company at that date.
If the share buy-back authority sought in terms of resolution 9 were exercised in full, the outstanding options as at 30 May 2007 would represent approximately 1.3% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Resolution 10 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights The Directors consider it advisable to renew their authority to allot equity securities for cash, other than to existing shareholders pro-rata to their holdings, which is due to expire on 26 October 2007.
This authority will enable the Directors, at any time until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to be held in 2008, to allot equity securities or transfer equity securities from treasury wholly for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,170,000 or otherwise in connection with a rights issue.
This limited disapplication will allow the Directors to allot up to 11,700,000 ordinary shares, representing just under 5% of the issued equity share capital of the Company as at 30 May 2007.
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution.
Resolution 11 Amendment to the Rules of the Shanks Group plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2005 the Scheme The Directors consider it advisable to amend the rules of the Scheme to extend the dates upon which invitations to apply for share options can be made to employees to include the period of 42 days commencing from the day of the Annual General Meeting.
This amendment will give the Company increased flexibility to make share option awards to its employees at times when the Company is not prohibited from making such awards under established rules of good corporate governance.
Resolution 11 will be proposed as a special resolution to approve this amendment to the rules of the Scheme.
Resolution 12 Amendment of Articles of Association to enable the use of laser signatures In order to tighten security procedures and to improve shareholder processing the Companys Registrar, Computershare, intends to cease the manual embossing of share certificates and to utilise a new system of laser signatures.
The Directors consider it advisable to permit the use of laser signatures on the Companys share certificates and are therefore recommending that the Companys Articles of Association should be amended to authorise the use of laser signatures on the Companys share certificates.
Resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution to approve this amendment.
annual report 2007 Resolution 13 Electronic communications The Companies Act 2006 introduced new provisions which became effective on 20 January 2007 which facilitate communications between companies and shareholders by electronic means and by means of a website.
As a result of the implementation of those provisions and changes to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules for listed companies, the Directors consider it timely to seek a general authority from shareholders to enable communications between the Company and its shareholders to take place electronically.
The passing of resolution 13 at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting will give the Company flexibility to supply notices, documents and other information, such as the annual report and accounts, in electronic form for example, by email or by means of a website in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Existing company legislation permits companies to communicate with shareholders by electronic means in respect of certain types of information.
However, the new legislation extends to all shareholder information including company notices, documents and other information and enables companies to invite shareholders to agree that shareholder information may be supplied by means of a website.
Shareholders who do not respond within 28 days of any such invitation are deemed to have agreed to a company communicating with them by means of a website.
Where shareholders agree or are deemed to have agreed to communication by means of a website, they must be notified by post or, where applicable, by email of the availability of the relevant document or information on the website, together with all relevant access details.
Shareholders may, if they wish, continue to receive all company communications in hard copy form and a shareholder may, in relation to a particular communication, request a hard copy form of that communication or revoke his her general consent to be provided with documentation in electronic form or by means of a website by delivering written notice of such revocation to the Company.
Shareholders should note that the Company has no present plans to alter its current methods of communicating with shareholders or inviting shareholders to consent to electronic communications.
However, as the new legislation provides for increased flexibility in relation to electronic communications, resolution 13 is being proposed to confer the necessary authority on the Company to enable it to take advantage of this increased flexibility in the future if it so wishes.
Shareholders should note that even if resolution 13 is passed, the Company cannot begin to communicate with shareholders by electronic means or through the use of a website unless and until shareholders have given individual consent.
2 Principal Activities and Business Review The principal activities of the Group continue to be waste management in the United Kingdom, Belgium and the Netherlands.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3 and the Business Review on pages 4 to 18 refer to the following: objectives and strategy: competition and the markets in which the Group operates: the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group: full review of the development and performance of the business for the year ended 31 March 2007: the financial position of the Group as at the financial year end: key performance indicators: and future prospects of the business.
continued 3 Results and Dividends The Groups Consolidated Income Statement appears on page 35 and note 3 to the financial statements shows the contribution to revenue and profits made by the different segments of the Groups business.
The Groups profit for the year amounted to 31.3m 2006: 30.4m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.0p per share be paid on 3 August 2007 to ordinary shareholders whose names appear on the register of members at close of business on 13 July 2007.
This dividend, together with the interim dividend of 1.9p per share already paid, will make a total dividend for the year on the ordinary shares of 5.9p per share 2006: 5.7p per share.
4 Acquisitions and Disposals Acquisitions have been made during the year at a total cost of 65.3m.
There have been no disposals during the year 2006: 34.0m.
The acquisitions are described in note 14 to the financial statements.
5 Directors The composition of the Board of Directors at the date of this report is shown on page 19.
Mr M Averill, Mr A Auer, Mr P Delaunois, Mr B Pointon, Mr P Johnson and Mr F Welham all served on the Board throughout the financial year under review, while Mr E van Amerongen and Dr S Riley were appointed on 9 February 2007 and 29 March 2007 respectively.
Mr E van Amerongen and Dr S Riley will be standing for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr F Welham and Mr P Johnson retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and will be offering themselves for re-election.
Mr M Averill and Mr F Welham have service contracts terminable on 12 months notice.
As detailed in the Chairmans statement Mr M Averill has an agreement with the Company that enables him to retire at age 57.
It has been agreed that Mr M Averill will be stepping down from his role as Group Chief Executive and he will resign from the Board on 30 September 2007.
In line with his service contract Mr M Averill will be retained to work for the Company on an advisory basis until the end of May 2008.
Mr T Drury will be joining the Board on 3 September 2007 as Group Chief Executive Designate to take over this role with effect from 1 October 2007.
Mr P Delaunois and Mr B Pointon will both be standing down from the Board immediately following the Annual General Meeting and therefore will not be seeking re-election.
Details of the Directors interests are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 34.
6 Corporate Governance A report on Corporate Governance is given on pages 24 to 28.
7 Share Capital During the year ended 31 March 2007 no ordinary shares were issued other than those issued in respect of exercises of options under the Companys share option schemes, details of which are given in note 6 to the financial statements.
As at 31 March 2007 and as at the date of this report the authorised ordinary share capital was and is 35,000,000 represented by 350,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
As at 31 March 2007, 234,930,581 ordinary shares were in issue.
8 Notifiable Interests As at 30 May 2007, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more of the ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of shares Percentage Schroder Investment Management Limited 32,869,707 13.99 Legal & General Group plc 30,166,202 12.84 Aberforth Partners LLP 17,202,200 7.32 Artemis Investment Management Limited 7,363,438 3.13 9 Research and Development The Group spent Nil 2006: Nil on research and development during the year ended 31 March 2007.
annual report 2007 10 Health and Safety The Group and the Board of Directors regard the provision of safe working conditions for all employees as a high priority and health and safety performance is quantified and published for stakeholder scrutiny see the Environment and the Community section of the Business Review on page 17.
11 Employment Policies Group employees are recognised as a key asset and it is Group policy to ensure that effective employee communications are maintained at all times see the Environment and the Community section of the Business Review on page 17.
12 Payment of Suppliers It is the Groups payment policy to agree payment terms with all suppliers and to abide by them.
The amount owed to trade creditors at the year end in proportion to the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year, expressed as a number of days, was 53 days 2006: 62 days for the Group and was 31 days 2006: 30 days for the Company.
13 Charitable and Political Donations During the period donations made by the Group for charitable purposes amounted to 2,980 2006: 11,248.
No donations were made for political purposes during the year 2006: Nil, as defined by the Companies Act 1985.
14 Registered Auditors In accordance with Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the Companys Directors in office as at the date of this report confirms that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps which he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Carolyn Gibson Secretary 30 May 2007 23
