at 30 May 2007 Non-executive Directors Adrian Auer BA, MBA, ACT 58 Philippe Delaunois, Ir, IC Age 65 Chairman Philippe was appointed to the Board in Adrian joined the Board in 2005 and was 2001 and sits on the Audit, Remuneration appointed Chairman in July 2006 and Nomination Committees.
He is following Ian Clubbs retirement.
Adrian is currently a Non-executive Director of a also Chairman of Readymix plc, a number of Belgian companies.
Philippe is Non-executive Director of Foseco plc and retiring from the Board and therefore will Filtrona plc.
The Board re-affirms that it considers Adrian to be not be seeking re-election at the AGM in July.
Peter Johnson, BA, ACA Age 53 Stephen Riley, B Eng, PhD 45 Peter joined the Board in May 2005 and Steve was appointed to the Board as is the Chairman of the Audit Committee Non-executive Director on 29 March 2007 and also sits on the Remuneration and and is a member of the Audit, Nomination Committees.
Peter is Finance Remuneration and Nomination Director of Taylor Woodrow plc and Committees.
He is currently an Executive Non-executive Director of Oriel Securities Director with International Power plc Limited.
Peter will be standing for re-election at the forthcoming having joined that business in 1985.
Steve has extensive AGM and is considered by the Board to be independent with operational experience in the power industry having held senior recent and relevant financial experience.
Following evaluation by positions in the UK and Australia.
Steve will be standing for the Chairman, Peter continues to be considered effective, whilst election at the forthcoming AGM and is considered by the Board demonstrating commitment to the role, including time for board, to be independent with relevant business experience.
committee meetings and any other duties.
Eric van Amerongen, 53 Barry Pointon, BSc Age 60 Eric was appointed to the Board on Senior Independent Director 9 February 2007 and sits on the Audit, Barry was appointed to the Board in Remuneration and Nomination January 1999.
Having held the position Committees.
On the retirement of Barry of Senior Independent Director and Pointon at the AGM in July he will be latterly Chairman of the Remuneration appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for over eight years Barry will Committee and will be Senior Independent Director.
Eric holds a be retiring from the Board and therefore number of other Non-executive and advisory positions amongst will not be seeking re-election at the AGM in July.
others he is Non-executive Director of Corus Group plc, a position he has held since 2001.
Eric will be standing for election at the forthcoming AGM and is considered by the Board to be independent with extensive business experience.
Executive Directors Michael Averill, BSc, MBA, ARSM, Fraser Welham, BSc, ACA Age 42 FCIWM Age 56 Group Finance Director Group Chief Executive Fraser joined the Board in May 2005 and Michael joined the Group in 1989 as was appointed Group Finance Director in Business Development Director for June of that year.
He was previously Rechem International Limited and Finance Director of Shanks Belgium for became Managing Director of Rechem seven years and has held finance in 1992.
Michael was appointed Group Chief Executive in 1994. positions with the Group for over twelve years.
Prior to joining Michael is a Non-executive Director of TDG plc and Care Group the Company Fraser held finance positions with other leading plc.
As detailed in the Chairmans Statement, Michael will be waste management companies.
Fraser will be standing for standing down from the Board with effect from 30 September re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
2007, when he will be succeeded by Mr Tom Drury.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 19
