Directors report The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Incorporation of Shire plc Shire plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as the Group or Shire is a leading specialty biopharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
Shire plc was incorporated under the laws of England and Wales on June 27, 2005 and is a public limited company.
Following the implementation of a Scheme of Arrangement, on November 25, 2005, Shire plc replaced Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc as the holding company for the Group.
Results and dividends The consolidated profit from continuing operations before taxation of Shire for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $31.4 million 2006: $129.6 million.
The consolidated results for 2007 include a $133.7 million impairment of the goodwill arising on the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. 2006: $271.9 million impairment and an impairment of intangible assets of $256.8 million, principally in respect of DYNEPO oncology in-process R&D.
The consolidated net assets of Shire as at December 31, 2007 were $5,218.6 million 2006: $4,145.4 million.
In respect of the six months to December 31, 2007 the Board resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 6.4690 US cents per ordinary share 2006: 5.2455 US cents per share.
Together with the first interim payment of 2.147 US cents per ordinary share, 2006: 1.935 US cents per share, this represents total dividends for 2007 of 8.616 US cents per ordinary share 2006: 7.180 US cents per share.
Principal activity Shire focuses its business on attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, human genetic therapies, gastrointestinal and renal diseases.
The subsidiaries and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of Shire in the year are listed in Note 37 to the financial statements, including the country of incorporation principal trading area.
Business review Shire is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended December 31, 2007 and of the position of the Group at the end of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group known as a Business Review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Chairmans review on pages 3 to 4, the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 5 to 6, the Financial review on pages 7 to 37 and the Corporate governance statements on pages 50 to 61 which are incorporated in this report by reference.
The Financial review and Note 27 also provide a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group as well as risk management objectives and policies.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in Note 40 to the financial statements.
There are no substantial differences between market and balance sheet values of land, the accounting policy of which is set out in Note 2 to the financial statements.
41 Directors report continued Corporate governance The Directors are committed to business integrity and professionalism and as an essential part of this commitment the Board supports high standards of corporate governance.
Details relating to corporate governance and Shires compliance with The Combined Code on Corporate Governance for the 2007 financial year and in particular the considerations and shareholder consultations relating to the proposed appointment of the current Chief Executive Officer as Chairman of the Board are given on pages 50 to 61 and in the remuneration policy contained in the Directors remuneration report which is detailed on pages 67 to 84.
The Remuneration Report contains details of Directors service contracts, whilst the Corporate Governance statements also includes further details on the appointment of Directors and the responsibilities of the Board.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Memorandum and Articles of Association and directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
Share capital The Company has three classes of authorized share capital: Ordinary shares which represent 98.7% of the total share capital : special voting shares which represent 1.3% of the total share capital and 2 deferred ordinary shares.
Further details of the authorized and called up share capital of the Company as at December 31, 2007 and the changes during the year are set out in Note 31 to the financial statements.
Repurchase of shares The Company was also given authority at the 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM to make market purchases of up to 55,258,441 of its own ordinary shares of 5p each at a maximum price per share of 105% of the middle market price.
The Directors were given authority at the 2007 AGM to allot relevant securities within the limits of the authorized share capital up to a nominal amount of 9,208,819, being the equivalent of 33.33% of the total ordinary share capital of the Company on the latest practicable date before publication of the notice of the 2007 AGM.
The Directors were also given authority at the 2007 AGM to allot equity securities of the Company for cash by way of rights issue free of the statutory pre-emption provisions up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 31,381,461, being the equivalent of 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on the latest practicable date before publication of the notice of the 2007 AGM.
ExcellerateHRO Guernsey Ltd as trustee of the Shire plc Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, operating under an irrevocable, non-discretionary program, purchased a number of ordinary shares of the Company for the benefit of the Trust during the year.
As at December 31, 2007 the number of shares held by the Trust stood at 8,494,999 ordinary shares, together with 1,801,410 American Depositary Shares each equivalent to three ordinary shares.
As at December 31, 2007, there were no voting rights attached to the majority of these holdings save for those relating to 7,151 shares that may potentially be exercised by participants of the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Acts and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Holders of the 2 deferred ordinary shares and holders of the special voting shares are not entitled to receive dividends or distributions in respect of such shares.
On a winding up, the holders of the 2 deferred ordinary shares are entitled only to the nominal value of each deferred ordinary share after the 42 Directors report continued holders of all other classes of share have received the nominal value of those shares.
On a winding up, the holders of the special voting shares are entitled to an amount equal only to the higher of one penny and the aggregate nominal amount of such shares and only after holders of ordinary shares have received the nominal value of such shares held by them.
Restrictions on voting Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares in the Company, every member present in person at a general or class meeting has one vote upon a show of hands.
On a poll, every member present has one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Votes on a poll may be exercised in person or by proxy.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf as a corporate representative.
No member shall, unless the Board otherwise decides, be entitled to attend or vote at any general or class meeting in respect of any shares if any call or other sum payable remains unpaid.
Also, no member shall be entitled to attend or vote if served with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, the deadline for submission of proxy forms is not less than 48 hours, or such shorter time as the Board may determine before any meeting.
The special voting shares are held by a trustee on trust for Shire, but without Shire having the legal right to vote on those shares.
Further information on the special voting shares is set out in Note 31 to the financial statements.
The holders of the 2 deferred ordinary shares have no right to receive notice of or attend or vote at any general meeting of Shire, unless a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company or to vary the rights attaching to those deferred ordinary shares.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Acts any rights attached to any existing class of shares may be varied either with written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of those shares.
At each such separate general meeting, except an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one third in nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
Any variation of the rights of the special voting shares is only effective with the written consent of the holder of the special voting shares.
Transfer of shares The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
Registration of a share in uncertificated form may be refused in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations, and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the transfer instrument: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right of transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and iii in the case of a transfer to joint transferees is in favour of no more than four such transferees.
The Board may decline to register any transfer of a deferred ordinary share to any person of whom the Board does not approve.
The Board shall decline to register any transfer of any of the special voting shares unless the transfer is to a company which replaces the current trustee.
43 Directors report continued Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the members of the Company.
Research and development Shire continues an active research and development program and as a result has incurred research and development costs of $775.2 million in the financial year ended December 31, 2007 2006: $295.8 million.
These costs have been charged to the consolidated income statement in accordance with Shires accounting policy.
Directors The Directors who served during the year and to the date of signing were as follows: Dr James Cavanaugh Chairman, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Mr Matthew Emmens Chief Executive Officer Mr Angus Russell Chief Financial Officer Dr Barry Price Non-Executive Director and until July 2007 Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Hon.
James Grant Non-Executive Director until he retired on May 10, 2007 Mr Robin Buchanan Non-Executive Director Mr David Kappler Chairman of the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee and since July 2007 Senior Independent Director Mr Patrick Langlois Non-Executive Director Ms Kate Nealon Non-Executive Director and since July 2007 Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee Dr Jeffrey Leiden Non-Executive Director Mr David Mott Non-Executive Director since October 31, 2007 Biographical details of Directors are stated on pages 38 and 40.
Directors interests in shares Details of the current Directors interests in the share capital of the Company, together with details of the share options granted to them, are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 67 to 84.
With the exception of Mr Mott who has acquired an interest in 5,000 ADS, representing 15,000 ordinary shares, there have been no changes to Directors interests since December 31, 2007 and the date of signing this report.
44 Directors report continued Re-appointment of Directors Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed for one year terms and, in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors following the expiry of their term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
Directors stand for election and re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors interest in material contracts Other than the related party transactions and insurance indemnity provisions disclosed below, none of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party during the period under review.
Related party transactions i Professional fees The Group incurred professional fees with Stikeman Elliott, a law firm in which the Hon.
James Grant, a Non-Executive Director of Shire until May 2007, is a Chair Emeritus, totaling $0.2 million for the year to December 31, 2007 2006: $0.6 million.
In April 2004 the Group contributed cash of $3.7 million CAD$5.0 million and equipment and intellectual property to the start-up of a new Canadian-based pharmaceutical research and development organization, ViroChem Pharma Inc. ViroChem, in return for an equity interest and royalties on the sale of certain products subsequently launched by ViroChem.
In November 2007, April 2006 and April 2005, the Group contributed cash of $6.2 million CAD$6.0 million, $8.0 million CAD$9.0 million and $4.1 million CAD$5.0 million respectively to ViroChem in return for an additional equity interest.
Dr Bellini, a Non-Executive Director of Shire BioChem, Inc. and, until May 10, 2003, a Non-Executive Director of Shire, had, at the time of the transaction, an indirect substantial interest in a company, which is a coinvestor of ViroChem.
In October 2005 the Group sub-leased its office premises in Newport to Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. Dr James Cavanaugh, the Non-Executive Chairman of the Group, was the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals, Inc. up to February 9, 2007 and remains a Director of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals, Inc. As a result of the transaction the Group will receive $7.8 million net of inducements in lease income over the sub-lease period from Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. Directors liability insurance and indemnification In the year under review, the Group maintained an insurance policy for its Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities arising out of any act, error or omission whilst acting in their capacity as Directors or Officers.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions were also in place during the year under review for the benefit of Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may potentially incur to third parties in the course of their duties.
Substantial shareholdings As at March 13, 2008 the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Legal and General Group plc has a holding of 5.26%: Fidelity International Limited has a holding of 4.9%: and Franklin Resources, Inc. and its affiliates, managed on behalf of its investment clients, have a holding of 3.9%.
45 Directors report continued Political donations Shire was given authority at the 2007 AGM to make EU political donations as defined in Section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 not exceeding 25,000 $50,025 equivalent in total and to incur EU political expenditure as defined in Section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 not exceeding 25,000 $50,025 equivalent in total.
The authorities were sought on a precautionary basis to avoid inadvertent contravention of The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Shire did not make any donations to EU political parties during the year ended December 31, 2007 2006: $nil.
"In 2006, Shire set up a Political Action Committee ""PAC"" in the United States."
The PAC is registered with the Federal Election Committee and attracts voluntary donations from US citizen employees and certain US suppliers and vendors.
The PAC is run by a committee of employees which determines the political campaigns or political candidates the PAC will support.
Contributions are held by the PAC in a separate and segregated fund and Shire does not contribute financially to this fund.
Charitable contributions During the year, charitable contributions amounting to $486,000 2006: $505,753 were made.
The contributions were primarily to charitable medical foundations.
For further information, please refer to Shires Corporate Responsibility website which can be found at www.
Employee involvement As at December 31, 2007, Shire employed 3,436 personnel, of whom 2,533 74% were based in the US and 458 13% were based in the UK.
Shire places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and constantly seeks to develop employee involvement throughout the Group.
To further this aim, Shire adopted an Employee Internal Communication Charter in 2004.
Pursuant to the Charter, employees are kept informed of strategy, current business performance, product developments, changes in Group policy and processes, employee benefits including pensions and health and safety arrangements.
Shire communicates with employees via regular internal publications Shire Dynamics and Shire Xpress, email, the Group intranet, regular all-employee meetings, functional and departmental meetings, focus and consultation groups on specific topics, employee surveys and notice boards.
Shire also encourages involvement of employees in the Groups performance through an annual individual objective setting process linked to Shires corporate objectives, and through the operation of various employee share schemes, details of which are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 67 to 84 and in Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
Shires employment polices are developed to reflect local legal, cultural and employment requirements and to maintain high standards wherever Shire operates.
Employees at all levels within the Group are encouraged to make the best possible contribution to Shires overall success.
Equal opportunities Shire operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other prohibited basis.
Applications for employment are fully considered on their merits, and employees are given appropriate training and equal opportunities for career development and promotion.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always given full and fair consideration, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned relative to the requirements of the position being applied for.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with Shire continues and that appropriate training or accommodation is arranged.
It is Shires policy that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees and that reasonable accommodation is made wherever possible.
46 Directors report continued Health, safety and welfare The Directors are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of Shires employees at work.
Accordingly, it is Shires policy to manage its activities so as to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risk to employees and those who may be affected by the Groups business.
In addition, Shire takes its corporate responsibilities seriously, and maintains an active Corporate Responsibility Committee as well as a global environmental health and safety team devoted to promoting employee safety at and outside of work.
Payment of creditors It is Shires policy to agree payment terms with its suppliers, making sure the supplier is aware of those terms, and to abide by them.
As at December 31, 2007 the trade creditors days outstanding were: 2007 2006 No.
Group 19 20 The Company has no trade creditors.
Financial instruments Details of Shires use of financial instruments can be found in the Financial Review on pages 7 to 37 and in Note 27.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise the following rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: under the $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 issued by the Company pursuant to a trust deed dated May 9, 2007 upon a change of control bondholders will, for 60 days thereafter, be able to exercise their right to convert their bonds into ordinary shares in the Company at a more advantageous price than normal, as specified in the terms and conditions of the bonds, unless the change of control is effected by a scheme of arrangement which results in the interposition of a new holding company between the Companys shareholders and the Company, and certain other conditions are met an Exempt Scheme.
With respect to an offer or a scheme to acquire all or most of the ordinary shares in the Company, further requirements are also imposed on the Company, including a requirement to notify bondholders of the offer or scheme and to use reasonable endeavors to procure the making of an equivalent offer to bondholders, unless the scheme is an Exempt Scheme.
For these purposes, a change of control is defined as the acquisition, pursuant to an offer or a scheme, by a party of the ability to control more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company: and under the $1,200 million credit facility agreement dated February 20, 2007 as amended and restated on July 19, 2007 between, amongst others, Shire plc and a number of its subsidiaries, Barclays Bank plc as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders, upon a change of control any lender may, following not less than 30 days notice, cancel its commitments and require prepayment of its participation in any outstanding loans.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains the ability to control more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company or holds more than half the equity share capital of the Company.
A waiver of the mandatory prepayment provision would require the consent of each lender under the agreement.
As at February 15, 2008, no loans are outstanding under the credit facility agreement.
