Board of Directors Dr James Cavanaugh 70 Chairman Dr Cavanaugh has been a member of the Board since March 24, 1997 and Chairman since May 11, 1999.
Dr Cavanaugh is also Chairman of the Companys Nomination Committee.
He will retire from the Board and Nomination Committee following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in June 2008.
He is a General Partner of HealthCare Partners, a Managing Director of HealthCare Ventures, a venture capital fund devoted to healthcare, Non-Executive Chairman of Verenium Corporation, Chairman of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. up to February 2007 after which time he remains a Board member, and a Non-Executive Director of MiddleBrook Pharmaceuticals, Inc. CaridoKine, Inc. Orqis Medical Corporation, PharmAthene Inc. and SkinMedica, Inc.
He is a former President of SmithKline & French Laboratories, SmithKline Beecham Corporations clinical laboratory business, and Allergan International, and served as Deputy Assistant to the US President on the White House Staff.
Matthew Emmens 56 Chief Executive Officer Mr Emmens has been Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board since March 12, 2003.
He is also Chairman of the Companys Management Committee.
He will succeed Dr Cavanaugh as NonExecutive Chairman following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in June 2008, at which time he will step down as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
He also serves as a Non-Executive Director of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Incyte Corporation.
He began his career in international pharmaceuticals with Merck & Co, Inc. in 1974, where he held a wide range of sales, marketing and administrative positions.
In 1992, he helped to establish Astra Merck, a joint venture between Merck and Astra AB of Sweden, becoming President and Chief Executive Officer.
In 1999, he joined Merck KGaA and established EMD Pharmaceuticals, the companys US prescription pharmaceutical business.
He was later based in Germany as President of Merck KGaA's US prescription pharmaceutical business and was a Board member.
Mr Emmens holds a degree in Business Management from Fairleigh Dickinson University.
Angus Russell 52 Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Global Finance Mr Russell has been the Companys Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Board since December 13, 1999.
He is also a member of the Companys Management Committee and is Chairman of the Companys Corporate Responsibility Committee.
He will succeed Mr Emmens as Chief Executive Officer following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in June 2008.
He also serves as a NonExecutive Director of the City of London Investment Trust plc.
Between 1980 and 1999, Mr Russell held a number of positions of increasing responsibility at ICI, Zeneca and AstraZeneca plc, including Vice President, Corporate Finance at AstraZeneca and Group Treasurer at Zeneca.
Mr Russell is a chartered accountant, having qualified with Coopers & Lybrand, and is a fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Dr Barry Price 64 Non-Executive Director Dr Price has been a member of the Companys Board since January 16, 1996.
Dr Price was until July 2007 the Companys Senior Non-Executive Director, Chairman and a member of the Companys Remuneration Committee and a member of the Companys Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee.
Dr Price remains a member of the Companys Nomination Committee.
He also serves as Chairman of Antisoma plc and Summit corporation plc.
Dr Price worked for Glaxo for 28 years, where he held positions of increasing responsibility with the companys research group.
38 Board of Directors continued The Hon.
James Grant, P. C. C. M. Q. C. 70 Non-Executive Director Mr Grant was a member of the Companys Board from May 11, 2001 until his retirement from the Board and Nomination Committee on May 10, 2007.
He previously served as a Director of BioChem Pharma Inc. Mr Grant sits on the Boards of two Canadian public corporations and the Boards of a number of other private corporations and not-for-profit foundations and councils.
He is a retired partner and Chair Emeritus with the law firm Stikeman Elliott in Montreal.
Mr Grant holds degrees in Arts and Law from McGill University.
Robin Buchanan 55 Non-Executive Director Mr Buchanan has been a member of the Companys Board since July 30, 2003.
He is also a member of the Companys Remuneration Committee.
He also serves as a Non-Executive Director of Liberty International plc.
Mr Buchanan was appointed Dean of The London Business School in July 2007.
Prior to that Mr Buchanan was the Senior Partner of the UK operations and Director of the global business consultancy, Bain & Company Inc.
He is a member of the Trilateral Commission.
Mr Buchanan previously worked for American Express International Banking Corporation in New York, McKinsey & Company, and Deloitte & Touche, where he qualified as a chartered accountant FCA.
Mr Buchanan holds an MBA with High Distinction Baker Scholar from Harvard Business School.
David Kappler 60 Non-Executive Director Mr Kappler has been a member of the Company's Board since April 5, 2004.
He was appointed Senior Independent Director in July 2007 and will be appointed Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in June 2008.
He is also Chairman of the Company's Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Kappler also serves as the Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc and as a NonExecutive Director of Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
Mr Kappler was a Director of Camelot Group plc from 1996-2002 and of HMV Group plc from 2002-2006.
Mr Kappler retired from Cadbury Schweppes plc in April 2004 after serving as Chief Financial Officer since 1995.
He worked for the Cadbury Schweppes group between 1965 and 1984 and rejoined the company in 1989 following its acquisition of Trebor Group, where he was Financial Director.
Mr Kappler is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Patrick Langlois 62 Non-Executive Director Mr Langlois has been a member of the Companys Board since November 11, 2005.
He is also a member of the Companys Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee and the Companys Remuneration Committee.
Mr Langlois is a Non-Executive Director of Scynexis Inc. Nanobiotix S. A. and Exonhit S. A. Mr Langlois previously served as Vice Chairman of the Management Board of Aventis S. A. Strasbourg, having been Group Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for several years.
He also spent many years in senior financial roles with the Rhone-Poulenc Group, including three years as a member of the Executive Committee and Chief Financial Officer.
Mr Langlois holds a PhD in Economics and a diploma in banking studies.
39 Board of Directors continued Kate Nealon 54 Non-Executive Director Ms Nealon has been a member of the Companys Board since July 27, 2006.
She has chaired the Companys Remuneration Committee since July 2007 and was appointed a member of the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee in February 2007.
Ms Nealon is a Non-Executive Director of HBOS plc and Cable & Wireless plc.
She is also a Senior Associate at the Judge Business School at Cambridge University.
Ms Nealon was previously Group Head of Legal & Compliance at Standard Chartered plc until 2004.
She is a US qualified lawyer and spent several years in her early career practising law in New York.
Dr Jeffrey Leiden 52 Non-Executive Director Dr Leiden has been a member of the Companys Board since January 1, 2007.
He has been a member of the Companys Remuneration and Nominations Committees since July 2007.
Dr Leiden served as President and Chief Operating Officer, Pharmaceutical Products Group and Chief Scientific Officer at Abbott Laboratories from 2001-2006: during this time he was also a member of the Boards of Directors of Abbott and TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.
Prior to joining Abbott, Dr Leiden served as the Elkan R. Blout Professor of Biological Sciences, Harvard School of Public Health and Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School.
Prior to that, he was the Frederick H. Rawson Professor of Medicine and Pathology and Chief of the Section of Cardiology at the University of Chicago.
His extensive business and consulting experience includes both the pharmaceutical and medical device areas.
Dr Leiden was a founder of Cardiogene, Inc. a biotechnology company specializing in cardiovascular gene therapy.
Dr Leiden earned a bachelor's degree in biological sciences, a doctorate in virology and a medical degree, all from the University of Chicago.
He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and an elected member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
Dr Leiden is currently a Managing Director at Clarus Ventures LLC.
David Mott 42 Non-Executive Director Mr Mott was appointed to the Companys Board on October 31, 2007.
He was also appointed to the Companys Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee in December 2007.
Mr Mott is Chief Executive Officer and President and Vice Chairman of the Board of MedImmune, Inc. roles he has held since 2000.
He joined MedImmune in 1992 and held positions of increasing responsibility including the positions of Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer and President.
MedImmune was acquired by AstraZeneca AZ in June 2007.
Mr Mott is also now serving as Executive Vice President of AZ and a member of AZs Senior Executive Team.
Prior to joining MedImmune, he was a Vice President in the Health Care Investment Banking Group at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Inc.
He is a member of the Board of Directors of Rib-X Pharmaceuticals and Ambit Biosciences and also serves on the Boards of Directors of the Biotechnology Industry Organization BIO and the Technology Council of Maryland and MdBio.
He holds a bachelors degree in economics and government from Dartmouth College, New Hampshire, USA.
