specialist constRuction and safety pRoducts specialist construction and safety Products provides a range of materials and consumable items that are essential to the construction process.
detailed product knowledge and a keen understanding of particular applications are vital elements of customer support.
the specialist construction division covers a wide portfolio of products such , waterproofingsystems,  additives, , .
Examples include tunnels and bridges, schools and hospitals, retail developments, hotels andofficebuildings.
the products supplied by siG are often of critical importance to the whole  at the right time and right location.
Relationships with contractors, the capability to resolve problems with expert technical advice and the ability to offer rapid  service of customers.
the division also includes siGs safety Products distribution business, which unlike other Group companies manages its resources from a single site, offering next day delivery throughout the uK mainland.
specialist safety equipment, such as eye, hand and foot protection is supplied to a wide range of industries with particular emphasis on the construction sector.
the safety business reaches a wide and growing range of customers by direct marketing and has a strong web presence www.
the growing requirement for customers to have their work and safety wear branded with their own logo is met by inhouse print and embroidery capabilities.
gRowth dRiveRs Regulation Justintime approach toprojectmanagement outsourcing of technical knowhow the four acquisitions made in this division in 2007 each bring additional specialist product knowledge to the group.
34 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 h Review of the yea eadinG R focus, sPecialisation and seRvice case study: continued develoPment of new Business activity the Group has established this division through the acquisition of a series of businesses, many of which were relatively small in scale but provided excellent technical knowledge or enhanced the Groups geographic position.
By combining the businesses the Group has been able to  sourcing.
the product service offering has also been raised as the best ideas and practices are shared across the division.
 been possible as the development of the trading site network has been extended nationwide.
during 2007, the Group acquired four new uK businesses into this division, bringing with them additional expertise in fixingproducts, .
sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 35
